It is with very great regret that I have to announce to the Senate the death of  Senator Sir Waiter  Kingsmill, which occurred on the 15th January, 1935. On behalf of honorable senators I conveyed to Lady Kingsmill an expression of sympathy pending the more formal resolution of the Senate, and a reply has been received from Lady Kingsmill, expressing her appreciation and thanks for the message of sympathy. 
 I have to inform the Senate that, pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution, I notified the Lieutenant-Governor of the State of Western Australia of the vacancy caused in the representation of that State by the death of  Senator Sir Walter  Kingsmill, and that I have received, through  His Excellency  the Governor-General, from the Lieutenant-Governor of Western Australia, a certificate of the appointment of Allan Nicol MacDonald, as a senator to fill such vacancy. 
Certificate laid on the table and read by the  Clerk. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD made and subscribed the oath of allegiance. 
-I desire to inform honorable senators that I have received, through the Prime Minister, an expression of the appreciation of the Government and people of France of the resolutions of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the deaths of M. Raymond Poincare and M. Louis Barthou. 
I have to inform the Senate that, through the Acting Prime Minister,I. -have received the following letter, addressed toy the Viscountess Novar to  His Excellency  the Governor-General :  - 
Raith, Kirkcaldy, 22nd January, 1935. 
My dear Governor-General, 
I have to thank you for your  letter  of November the 23rd, enclosing a letter from the Prime Minister informing  you  thathe was sending me abound copy of the Resolu  tions  and Speeches delivered  in  the  two  Houses  of  Parliament on the occasion ofLord Novar's death. 
This, together with the unbound copies, has now arrived, and I would ask you to convey to  Mr. Lyons,  the  President  of the Senate, and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, my most grateful thanks for their kind thought in providing me with this record of the appreciation of my husband's services so eloquently expressed in the Senate and House of Representatives. 
I deeply appreciate this testimony to my husband's memory, and they may he sure that the Book in which it is embodied will be regarded as a most treasured possession by' myself and those who come after me. 
Yours sincerely, Helen Novar. 

 His Excellency the Rt.  Hon. Sir Isaac  Isaacs, P.C., G.C.M.G., 
[3.5]. -  by leave  - I desire, formally, to announce to the Senate that during the absence from Australia of the Prime Minister and Treasurer (the Bight Honorable J. A. Lyons, M.P.), the Minister for Commerce (theRight Honorable  Dr. Earle  Page) will be Acting Prime Minister. The Acting Treasurer  (Hon. B. G. Casey, D.S.O., M.C., M.P.)  will administer the Department of the Treasury.  Senator the Hon.  T. C. Brennan, K.C., will act for and on behalf of the Attorney-General and Minister of State for Industry during the absence of the  Hon.  R. G. Menzies, K.C., M.P., and in consequence of such appointment,  Senator Brennan  will, in addition to representing the Departments of Commerce, Industry and Health in the Senate, represent the Department of the Attorney-General in this chamber. 

 Sir Henry Gullett's work as Minister without portfolio directing negotiations for trade treaties is receiving attention by the Minister for Trade and Customs (Lieutenant-Colonel the  Hon.  T W. White, D.F.C, V.D., M.P.). 
Matters relating to the administration of War Service Homes, which had been in charge of the  Hon.  H.  Y.  C. Thorby, M.P., will, during  Mr. Thorby's  absence, be attended by the  Hon.  J. A. J. Hunter, M.P. 
I desire also to announce that  Major the  Honorable  Sir Charles  W. C. Marr, K.C.V.O., D.S.O., M.C., V.D., M.P., on  whose  recognition  by the King  I  offer  hearty congratulations, retired  from the  Cabinet, on the  31st  December,  1934. 
[3.10].-  by leave-  The  Government  has received the second report  of  theRoyal Commission  on  Wheat, and has given consideration to  the most  important  of the commission's  recommendations.  The  report contains  25  recommendations,  the  first five  of  which particularly concern the present financial condition  of  the  industry,  and the steps which may be take to improve it. The other recommendations,  which will have the  immediate  attention of the Government, in collaboration with the States and  other bodies concerned, relate  to  scientific, economic and practical problems associated with  the  production and marketing  of  wheat and flour. 
The first five recommendations  of  the commission are as follow :  - 
That assistance be afforded  by  the Commonwealth to the wheat  industry  through the application  of a  home-consumption price  for  flour by  an  excise duty  on  flour used within the Commonwealth as recommended  in  the first report, dated the 30th July,  1934,  and  in  the supplement  to  the first report, dated the 27th November,  1934. 
That  if,  for any reason, it be found impossible  or  undesirable  to  apply the principle  of  a homeconsumption price through  an  excise duty  on  flour,  it be  applied  in  some other manner,  as,  for instance, through the agency  of  the compulsory marketing scheme, as set out  in  recommendation (iii) below,  or  by such other means  as  may be considered desirable and appropriate. 
That,  in  any case, a compulsory marketing scheme for  Australian  wheat  be  adopted,  provided  that the majority  of  wheat-farmers of each of three wheat-exporting States express their approval of such a scheme, and that the principles upon which the compulsory marketing scheme is based shall be those recommended in paragraph 273 of sub-section 6 of section V. of this report  (Mr. Cheadle dissents). 
That action be taken by the Commonwealth to facilitate adjustment of debts within the wheat industry in accordance with the scheme submitted by the commission in sub-sections 4 and 5 of section VIII. of this report. 
That the desirability of increasing the rate of exchange between Australia and London; be referred by the Commonwealth Government for the consideration of the Commonwealth Bank Board in view of all the facts relating to the wheat industry as detailed in this report. 
The Government has already provided for the financial needs of the industry in' respect of the 1934-35 harvest, the funds for which are being made available, partly from a flour tax, and partly from general revenue. The advisers of the Government state that the only way, if at all, by which a compulsory marketing scheme could be established in respect of wheat produced in the Commonwealth, would be by the complete co-operation of the States with the Commonwealth, the States surrendering to the Commonwealth their powers in respect to intrastate trade in wheat. Other methods for the establishment of such a scheme would be open to doubt on the grounds of constitutionality or practicability. The fullest possible discussion and consultation between the Commonwealth and the States must therefore precede any legislative action. To this end copies of the report are being supplied forthwith to the governments of the States. This will enable them to consider its contents before the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council, which will be held on the 15th April. At this meeting, the question of co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth will be fully discussed, when the action which the States are prepared to take in the matter will be ascertained. The action which could be taken by the Commonwealth can be determined only when the views of the States have been 'ascertained. 
So far as the adjustment of farmers' debts is concerned, action has already been taken by the Commonwealth and the States. A general plan has been, formulated, and the Commonwealth Government has agreed to provide up to £12,000,000 to the States over a period of years, free of interest, for the purpose of debt adjustment. The recommendations of the royal commission in regard to the rate of exchange between Australia and London will be referred to the Commonwealth Bank for consideration. The determination of the rate is a matter which rests properly with the bank, and in reaching its decision it must consider the whole economic position of Australia. 
[3.19]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That this Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of  Senator Sir Walter  Kingsmill, Kt., B.A., a former member of the Western Australian Parliament and Minister for State of Western Australia, and at the time of his decease a member of the Senate of the Commonwealth Parliament, of which he had been  President,  places on record its high appreciation of his long career of distinguished public service, and tenders its profound sympathy to his widow in her bereavement. 
All honorable senators were, I feel sure, deeply grieved at the news of the death, on the 15th January last, of  Sir Walter  Kingsmill, who had, because of his many estimable personal qualities, won his way into the hearts of every member of the Senate. 

 Sir Walter has departed this life with a record of distinguished service, in both the Federal and State spheres. He was a member of the Western Australian Parliament from 1897 until 1922, when he was elected as a senator for the State of Western Australia. During the time that he was a member of the Parliament of Western Australia,  Sir Walter  was a Minister of State for periods aggregating four years, and for three years he was  President  of the Legislative Council. As  President  of the Senate from August, 1929, to August, 1932, he set an extremely high standard as to the manner in which the duties of that high office should be performed. In January, 1933, he was honoured by  His  Majesty with a knighthood. 
Combining a wide knowledge of men and letters with a genial nature,  Sir Walter  Kingsmill will long be remembered by all honorable senators as one of nature's gentlemen. I desire to extend the sincere sympathy of the Senate to Lady Kingsmill. In addition to being a colleague of mine,  Sir Walter  Kingsmill was a personal friend, whose loss I feel deeply. I am sure that that sense of loss is shared by all honorable senators. 
.- The sentiments which have been expressed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  regarding the late  Sir Walter  Kingsmill are shared by the members of my party and myself. I feel that I am giving utterance to the view of every honorable senator when I say that the deceased gentleman endeared himself to all of us. He capably filled the distinguished position of  President  of the Senate. Even when party feeling ran high, he was always strictly impartial.  His  genial disposition engendered in all who came in contact with him a kindly feeling for him. 
During his distinguished public career, the late  Sir Walter  Kingsmill showed, not only that he was a man of many attainments, but also that he had a lively sense of humour. That, in my opinion, was one of his outstanding characteristics. He was keenly appreciative of a flash of wit, and during the debates in this chamber must have heard much that appealed to his playful fancy. It, is a matter for deep regret that so kindly and good-natured a man should have passed over; but all of us some day must cross the river. I feel a sense of personal loss at his passing, and realize to the full how much greater must be the loss to those nearest and dearest to him. I associate myself whole-heartedly with the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Senate, and hope that the widow of the deceased gentleman will gather some comfort from the knowledge that he held the respect and esteem of all with whom he had come in contact. 
SenatorCARROLL (Western Australia) [3.25].  -  As a colleague of the late  Sir Walter  Kingsmill, I cannot allow this occasion to pass without endorsing all that has been said of him by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes).  Much has been spoken concerning the deceased gentleman's great public services - and deservedly so - but it is not in that connexion that I shall cherish his  memory.  I shall remember him as a kindly, courtly, cultured gentleman ; a man who knew and loved Australia, and whose place it will be difficult to fill. In the words of Shakespeare, it may truthfully be said of him - 
His life was gentle; and the elements 
So mix'd in him, that Nature might stand up 
And say to all the world, " This was a man ". 
 I, too, as a colleague of the late  Sir Walter  Kingsmill, associate myself with the widespread expressions of regret at his decease.  Sir Walter  was indeed a cultured gentleman, a public-spirited citizen, and a loyal friend. For many years I was associated with him as a member of the Parliament of Western Australia, and can speak of the distinguished service which he rendered to that State, as well as to Australia as a whole for nearly forty years. He was particularly active in all matters affecting the flora and fauna of Australia, and took a deep interest in all things involving the well-being of the people. Australia, and particularly Western Australia, which he served so well, are the poorer for his passing. 
With all that has so fittingly been said by other speakers regarding  the  late  Sir Walter  Kingsmill, I am thoroughly in accord. I first made his acquaintance over  30  years ago, when he was a Minister of the Crown in Western Australia; but his career of distinguished public service commenced long before that time. Those of us who, from time to time, have had to submit ourselves to the judgment of the people know that the life of a public man is not easy; and that the tests to which he is subjected by tho electors are severe, sometimes to the point of being merciless. When, therefore, we recall that the deceased gentleman again and again received the endorsement of his fellow-citizens, we are strengthened in the view that he possessed in no mean degree those qualities which are to be found only rn worthy representatives of the people. We all are agreed as to the many fine qualities of this distinguished man who so recently was among us. He was a worthy citizen, a zealous guardian of the public interest during the whole of his long public career, and a good comrade in all the social relationships of life. We trust that the severity of the blow experienced by Lady Kingsmill will be tempered by the knowledge that her husband enjoyed the affection and esteem of a wide circle of friends and the respect and goodwill of the citizens of Australia generally. After all, the preservation of a good name and the esteem of one's fellows are much more than gold can buy. I deplore his death ; but, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  has said, death is an ordeal through which all must pass. Inscrutable are the ways of the Most High, to whose commands we must bow in humility and obedience. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.32]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That this Senate expresses its regret at the death of the Honorable Alexander Poynton, O.B.E., a former member of the South Australian and Commonwealth Parliaments, and a former Minister of State of South Australia and of the Commonwealth, places on record its high appreciation of his notable public service, extending over many years, and tenders its deep sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
To many honorable senators the late  Mr. Poynton  was unknown, but his figure was a familiar one to the older generation of politicians. The deceased gentleman was among the pioneers of the industrial movement of this country. As  Senator Barnes  can testify, he was one of the early members of the Australian Workers Union, at a time when it was neither profitable nor pleasant to be associated with trade unionism. He also was one of the early members of the political Labour party of his State, and rendered valuable service to both the industrial and political sides of that movement. The late  Mr. Poynton  had a very fine record in both the South Australian' and Commonwealth Parliaments. He was a member of the first Parliament of the Commonwealth, and had been a member of the House of Assembly in South Australia from  1893  to  1901.  For a short time during that period he was Commissioner of Crown Lands. In  1901  he entered the Commonwealth Parliament as the member for Grey and represented that constituency until  1923.  Whilst a member of the House of Representatives, he served on several royal commissions and committees, was Chairman of Committees from  1910  to  1913,  and in  1917- 1918  a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and the Federal Parliamentary Recruiting Committee.  In  November,  1916,  he attained ministerial rank, as Treasurer in the Hughes Ministry. From March,  1918,  to February,  1920,  he was an Honorary Minister, and during that period was Acting Minister for the Navy, Minister in Charge of Shipping, and Assistant Minister for Repatriation. From February,  1920,  to December,  1921,  ho was Minister for Home and Territories and Minister in Charge of Shipbuilding, and was also Postmaster-General from December,  1921,  to February,  1923.  In  1920  His  Majesty honoured  Mr. Poynton  by appointing him an officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire. 
The record of the late  Mr. Poynton'*  parliamentary career is one of which any member of this Parliament might well be proud. He was ever prompted by  the highest of motives in performing his public duties. On behalf of honorable senators I extend to his widow and family our sincere sympathy in their bereavement. 
.- I re-echo the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Senate in regard to the death of the . Honorable Alexander Poynton. SenatorRae and I were associated with him many years ago. I first made his acquaintance in 1891 when he was an officer of the Australian "Workers Union, of which I was a member.  His  was a guiding band of the organization at a time when it was laboring under grievous disabilities owing to the heavy hand placed upon it by the " squattocracy " of this country.  Mr. Poynton  did his best to pilot us through those troublous times. He served both as a member and a Minister in the South Australian Parliament from 1893 until 1901, and had a distinguished career as a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. I deeply regret his death, and my party and I join in the expression of sympathy with his relatives in their bereavement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.39]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That this Senate expresses its regret at the death of  Mr. Malcolm  Duncan Cameron, a former member of the House of Representatives for the division of Barker, South Australia, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public services and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 

 Mr. Cameron was first elected to the Federal Parliament in 1922 as the representative of Barker, and he continued to represent that constituency until the close of the last Parliament. From March, 1927, to November, 1931, he was a member of the Committee of Public Works, and was  chairman  of that committee from February to September, 1929. He was a temporary  chairman  of committees during the last Parliament. During the final days of his association with this Parliament it became evident that he attended to his public duties at great personal sacrifice, because of the ill-health that had overtaken him. He was courageous to the end, however, and his Parliamentary career was notable for the ability and goodwill which he brought to the discharge of his duties. Our sincere sympathy goes out to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
.- I associate myself with, the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The late  Mr. Cameron,  with whom, as a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, I was very closely associated for a long period, was both able and genial, and had always a cheery smile for everybody. It is much to be regretted that so lovable a personality should have been called away at a comparatively early age. I can well appreciate the grief that his death has occasioned to those near and dear to him, to whom we extend our profound sympathy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.43]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That this Senate expresses its great regret at the death of  Mrs. Pattie  Deakin, C.B.E., widow of the Honorable Alfred Deakin, a, former Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia, places on record its appreciation of her notable work in the interests of soldiers during and after the Great War, and in public, charitable and philanthropic movements, and tenders to the members of her family its deep sympathy in their bereavement. 
It is most unusual to refer in either House of the Parliament to the death of a citizen of the Commonwealth other than a member or former member; but there are some persons who, by reason of the importance of their services to the community, win for themselves aclaim to some recognition in the records of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. Such, a one was  Mrs. Pattie  Deakin, O.B.E., who, I regret to inform the Senate, passed away at Point Lonsdale, Victoria, on the 30th December last. 
Like her husband, the late Honorable Alfred Deakin, she possessed many admirable personal qualities which helped in her self-imposed task of ministering to the needs of others. No record of  Mrs. Deakin's  services to the nation would be complete without a reference to her whole-hearted and unselfish efforts on behalf of our soldiers during and after the Great War. The interests of disabled soldiers and soldiers' children generally were uppermost in her mind, and, as a member of the trust to administer  Sir Samuel  McCaughey's bequest, which made provision for the education of soldiers' children, including orphans, she was able to participate in a work that was very dear to her heart. 
Many charitable and ohilanthropic movements in Victoria benefited by her active association with them, and, not the least, those organizations whose special function it is to promote the welfare of women and children. 
Her public services to the Commonwealth were recognized by His Majesty just prior to her death, when she was honoured by being appointed as a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire. To the members of her family, I wish, on behalf of the Senate, to convey our very deep sympathy. 
.- In supporting all that has been said by the Leader of the Government, I would add that most Australians knew very little of the great work that was done by this great lady.  Her  name, however, was familiar to all, because of the public services of her distinguished husband, who, undoubtedly, was a big Australian, and left an enduring mark on the history of this country. The late  Mr. Alfred  Deakin was an outstanding advocate of the building up of Australian, industries, and I have no doubt that, in all that ho did for Australia, was aided and supported by his wife, whose death we so much regret. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Has the Government any power or jurisdiction in the matter of the appointment of associates to the judges of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, or is their appointment entirely within the discretion of the judges themselves? In this connexion I desire to read the following report which appeared in the Sydney  Sun  of the 22nd February of this year: - 
Criticism of £2,500 a year Federal Arbitration Court judges for employing their daughters as associates at £300 a year while, others were out of work, was voiced by the Federal Employment Under-Secretary  (Mr. F.H. Stewart)  in a newspaper article to-day. 

 Mr. Stewart said it would be overstating the case, to suggest that the invasion of women into industry was  a  major cause of male unemployment, but that it played a not incon- siderable part was beyond question. 
He would have preferred to refrain from illustrating his point that daughters of wealthy parents were taking jobs to the detriment of others by personal reference, but the notification of the appointment of the twentyyearsold daughter of a federal arbitration judge as associate to her father afforded an illustration too timely and appropriate to escape reference. 
Two of the three judges of that court now had their daughters as associates. 
This position would be a godsend to many a qualified legal graduate. 
I shall be glad if the Minister can give me any information with respect to this matter. 
The practice has been, for many years in other courts, and since the establishment of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, for judges to nominate their own associates. The question raised by the honorable senator, and referred to in the newspaper paragraph which he read, is one entirely for the judges themselves to determine. 
[3.53]. - As a mark of respect to the memory of the late  Senator Sir Walter  Kingsmill, I move - 
That the sitting of the Senate be suspended till8 o'clock this evening. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Sitting suspended from3.54. till 8 p.m. 

Even if he did not. every facility was placed in his way to visit the fields, and his expenses were met. Is it reasonable to expect this man to issue a favorable report on Australian fields, to the detriment of the interest of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company? 
I have no desire to be diverted from my line of argument by the right honorable gentleman's interjections. . Fifty years ago 2,000 men were engaged in the production of shale oil in New South Wales; to-day, Newnes is merely a shell - an industrial ghost. So bad are the conditions there that the only hotelkeeper in the place is unable to pay his rent. Is that because the Standard Oil Company has so many liens on the farmers of Australia, and holds so many promissory notes from business men in this country? Is it because the Standard Oil Company and its subsidiary companies have so  many million pounds invested in Commonwealth bonds? Or is it because these companies are generous donors to the funds of the United Australia party? Are the Standard Oil Company and its subsidiary interests putting political bawbees into the funds of the United Australia party? 
The honorable senator is getting away from the subject 
I urge the Government to cease backing and filling on the subject of unemployment and to do something of a practical nature in the interests of the industrial and business community of Newcastle where the great steel and subsidiary industries are established. This large district is populated by many of the finest industrialists in the Commonwealth. It is proved that on the northern mining fields 6,000 miners are still unemployed, and their wives and families are living on the dole. About 6,000 have done no work for the last six years. There are 2,000 unemployed in the western districts, including the Newnes field, and 2,000 in the southern districts from Helensburg to Bulli, Wollongong and Wollondilly. Perhaps our friend,  Senator Brennan,  who is a Doctor of Law, could become a Doctor of Divinity, and soften his heart to enable him to do something for the tens of thousands in New South Wales who are living in misery and degradation. The British Government has given a lead, and the Commonwealth Government might well take their courage in their hands and get on with the joh. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Minister for External Affairs) [3.35].- While the honorable senator was speaking, I tried to correct a misstatement made by him, but he would not listen to me. Apparently he did not desire to know the facts. He referred to the oil experts who visited Australia recently to inspect the Newnes oil shale area, as having been despatched by the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, at the expense of the Commonwealth Government. I tried to inform  him  that that was not a fact, all the expense having been borne by the AngloPersian Oil Company. I remind him that half the shares in that company are held by the British Government. 

 Senator Dunn's touching concern for the unemployed miners at Newcastle may be due, I think, to an election which is to take place shortly in New South Wales. I understand, from press reports, that the Federal Labour party has great pros- pects of capturing seats now held by the ung party in the Newcastle district, and that the latter party desires to show the electors that Codlin, not Short, is their friend. It is interesting to know that, when the Commonwealth Government asked the Lang Government to cooperate with it in finding money for the development of the Newnes shale area, that Government - and Senators Dunn and Rae are members of the Lang party - refused to give financial assistance. So, at that time, when unemployment  was  more severe than it is to-day, the party with which the honorable senator is associated did not feel so much concern for the unemployed miners' as it claims to have to-day. But the present New South Wales Government has cooperated, and is co-operating to-day, in the steps which are being taken by the Lyons Ministry. 
As honorable senators know,  Senator 
McLachlan is the Minister who deals with this matter. I have been supplied by his department with a statement as to what has been, and is being, done with regard to both the hydrogenation process for the extraction of oil from coal, and the Newnes shale deposits. The statement is as follows : - " With a full appreciation of the unfortunate circumstances which exist in the coal-fields, and the necessity from the point of view of Empire defence of making Australia partially independent, at least from outside sources of supplies of oil, the Commonwealth Government during 1933 approached Imperial Chemical Industries Limited with a view to ascertaining the terms and conditions under which that company would be prepared to erect and operate a plant in Australia with a capacity of 1,000 tons of coal a day. In reply to those representations, the company informed  Mr. Bruce  that, it was willing and anxious to give the fullest, co-operation and assistance in establishing a. large-scale hydrogenation unit in Australia. It was pointed out, however, that it. is essential to wait until the company has had six months' experience of running its first English plant at Billingham-on-Tees before any definite proposal is formulated. The company states that it is inevitable that actual working on a large scale plant will reveal the necessity for some modifications in design and construction. The company also hopes that this experience will enable a substantial decrease in the capital cost of subsequent plant, and increase the efficiency of the process. Hence the company regards it as most unwise to embark upon the construction of a. further unit until experience of the first plant has been obtained. " Imperial Chemical Industries Limited stated that the construction of the first unit is proceeding with the utmost rapidity; but. in view of the vastness of the constructional work necessary, it would not be possible to commence operations before January, 1935.  "It  was further stated by Imperial Chemical Industries Limited that its engineers have already fully surveyed the possibilities in Australia, including bulk  hydrogenation  tests of all important seams of Australian coal, and the selection of a site for the plant. The company also estimated, on present experience, that the cost of erecting a unit in Australia capable of using 1,000 tons of coal a day, would be  between £S,000,000 and £9.,000,000 in Australian currency. It is to be hoped that this figure will be capable of substantial reduction in the light of experience at Billingham-on-Tees, because any reduction of capital outlay- will be reflected in a corresponding reduction of the cost of production of petrol. " On 23rd March, 1934, a promise was made by the Prime Minister to a representative gathering of coal mining interests at Cessnock to the effect that he was prepared to ask Cabinet to give consideration to the question of whether, in co-operation with the Government of New South Wales, it would be advisable to ask Imperial Chemical Industries Limited to undertake the construction of a plant in Australia concurrently with construction at Billingham-on-Tees. It became apparent, however, before the matter could be considered by Cabinet, that some divergence of opinion existed as to the proper location for a plant, and the relative merits of brown coal as distinct f rom black coal. Strong representations in this regard were made, by different State Governments. Accordingly, it was decided that these unknown and undetermined factors should be cleared up before a further approach was made to Imperial Chemical Industries. The States and the company were asked to appoint representatives to a committee to conduct investigations. This committee was appointed in April, 1934. The committee comprised the following representatives :- " Commonwealth. -  Dr. A.  C. D. Rivett, chief executive officer, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, chairman;  Mr. L.  J. Rogers, Commonwealth fuel adviser;. Commander A. D. Nicholl, R.N., defence services. New South Wales. -  Mr. E.  C. Andrews, formerly 
Government geologist. Victoria. -  Dr. H.  Herman, research engineer, State Electricity Commission. Queensland. -  Mr. J.  B. Henderson, Government analyst. South Australia. -  Dr. L.  Keith Ward, director,. Department of Mines. Tasmania. -  Mr.. P.  B. Nye, Government geologist; and  Mr. Norman  Taylor, of Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand,- who has been nominated by Synthetic Coal Oil Products Proprietary Limited. Western Australia did not desire to be represented. " The committee found it impossible to reach any definite conclusion in regard to the reference pending the completion and experience of the working of thelargescale plant then in course of construction by Imperial Chemical Industries Limited at Billingham-on-Tees, England. The committee stated that the design and erection of this plant had been proceeding for some twelve months, and it was anticipated that the operating stage would be reached early in 1935. It was being found, however, that continuous modification of initial plans waa demanded, partly as the result of actual experience in erection and partly as the result of alterations and improvements in technique on the chemical side which were all the time being effected. The consequence was, the committee added, that when the plant is completed, parts of it will already be obsolete, and that it would be folly to initiate any establishment of plant in Australia until this invaluable Billingham experiment is completed. " The following extract from the report appears to aptly sum up the position : - 
We realize that disappointment will follow an announcement of a conclusion that it would bc folly to attempt the erection of a hydro.genation plant until the results of the rapidly progressing large-scale experiment at Billinghain are available. No other course, however, is open to us. Where millions of pounds are involved in capital coat, it would be unbusinesslike, to the point of recklessness, to risk the almost certain loss of a considerable portion of it rather than wait another twelve months for information that will make possible the avoidance of such loss. We feel certain that no private organization, adequately informed of the position, would embark upon a premature venture of the kind; and the risking of public money would be equally unjustifiable. 
The committee concluded by recommending that it be kept in existence on the understanding that it will remain as closely as possible in touch with developments elsewhere and will meet at the earliest date at which it becomes apparent that decisive answers can be given to the questions which have been submitted to it. The Governments of the Commonwealth and of the States concerned agreed to this proposal.  Mr. L.  J. Rogers, the Commonwealth fuel adviser, who is at present in America in connexion with tests associated with the production of oil from shale, has been asked to visit Great Britain for the purpose of conferring with representatives of Scottish Oils (Shale) Limited regarding such tests, and to obtain the fullest information, in regard to progress at Billingham-on-Tees, and in connexion with other fuel developments. It is expected that  Mr. Rogers  will arrive in Great Britain some time during April. "In connexion with the shale oil industry, the Newnes Investigation "Committee, which was appointed by the Governments of the Commonwealth *nd New South Wales, carried out' a thorough investigation of the Newnes shale oil project, involving the conduct of tests in Britain and America, and recommended that a company be formed with a capital of £600,000, £300,000 of which was to be provided jointly by the governments on a. deferred basis for the purpose of carrying out large-scale operations at Newnes. These operations would involve the production of about 6,000,000 gallons of petrol and 20,000 tons of crude oil per -annum. " TI te report was considered by both governments, which agreed that negotiations should be entered into with persons considered to be possessed of the necessary technical and engineering qualifications with a view to bringing about the development of Newnes on the lines recommended by the committee. Both governments agreed that if the right type of company could be interested, financial and other assistance would be provided as an inducement. Negotiations were accordingly opened up with the AngloPersian Oil Company Limited, and  Sir John  Cadman, the  chairman  of directors of that company, who visited Australia and inspected Newnes during October. 
L934, undertook to send out experts to conduct an investigation into the shale oil industry of Australia. Pursuant to this promise, Messrs. Robert Crichton and H. R. J. Conacher, general manager and manager respectively of Scottish Oils (Shale) Limited, arrived in Australia at the end of January, 1935: These gentlemen inspected Newnes, Marrangaroo, Baerami and Wollar fields in New South Wales, and Latrobe in Tasmania. They completed their investigations and sailed for England on 5th March. Before their departure they informed  Senator McLachlan  and  Mr,. Vincent,  the Minister for Mines of New South Wales, that they had collected  all available data and it would be necessary for them to analyse this information and to carry out certain experiments and tests in Scotland before reaching any definite conclusions, which would be embodied in a report that they would submit to  Sir John  Cadman1. It is expected that the report may be available in time for  Sir John  Cadman to discuss it with the Prime Minister while he is in England." 
As I have already stated the investigation was not conducted at the expense of the Commonwealth Government; as stated by  Senator Dunn;  the whole of the cost was defrayed by the AngloPersian Oil Company. It will be seen from the information which I have given that the Government has been energetic in this matter. It has conducted investigations on proper businesslike lines, testing the process step by step so that money should not be wasted, and so as to ensure that when operations are commenced they will be on an economic and sound basis. 
I support the motion moved by  Senator Dunn,  because there is a feeling abroad that the Commonwealth Government has adopted the I. W. W. " go-slow " policy, and that, owing to its tardiness, we have not reached that stage of development which we should have reached years ago. We admit that it is essential to obtain the fullest information concerning the production of oil from coal or shale, but much could have been done by way of experiments in Australia instead of depending, as is usually the case, upon action by vested interests in other cou u tries. In Australia we are always backward in conducting experiments essential to the welfare of this country. Apart from the production of oil from coal or shale, it is well known that for many years attempts have been made in Queensland to discover gusher oil, and that just when conditions have appeared to be favorable drills have become jammed in the bores necessitating the suspension of operations. Impartial persons have stated that certain interests have been at work to prevent the discovery of oil. This has b.een done deliberately, because if oil were discovered in Australia it would be detrimental to the interests of certain foreign oil companies. 
As regards the development of the Newnes deposits, it seems to me that the Government has been slow to do anything. We have heard the argument that experiments overseas have proved that it would not pay to attempt to produce oil commercially from our shale deposits, and that the Government must be careful about making any forward move because of the probable loss of public money.' This is a peculiar argument from a government which is prepared to spend millions of pounds on a cruiser, for instance, and to squander vast sums of public money on commissions, which present reports that are pigeonholed and forgotten. Since the inception of the Federal Parliament, it is probable that several hundreds of thousands of pounds have been spent on inquiries by commissions, and similar bodies which have presented innumerable reports that have been filed and put away, and only occasionally glanced at by som&lt;! one who may be, for the moment, interested in the various proposals that formed the subject of inquiry. We, on this side, contend that the Government would be amply justified in carrying out experiments of the nature indicated in this motion without waiting for the results of similar experiments by huge private organizations on the other side of the world. 
I am informed by  Senator Dunn  that oil from coal is being produced in the Mother Country. If this Government was in earnest about the development of the oil industry in Australia, it would have been prepared, from the point of view of defence alone, to spend money on experimental projects without waiting from year to year to ascertain what has been done by big companies overseas. 
They should be carried a little further, and a- serious attempt made to produce oil from coal and shale on a commercial basis. Government supporters take the view that expenditure on experiments of this nature would be so much money wasted. We, on this side, contend that this work should be carried out in the interests of Australia. 
I have in my hand a report which appeared in the  Australian Industrial and Mining Standard  of the 15th February, 1935, which states - 
There wre now many methods of splitting up raw coal into oil and by-products, and scientists are busy devising still more in the hope of finding the perfect process. In many ea.-es they have been successful in small experimental plants, without convincing experts that they would meet all requirements in large-scale production over long periods of time. At one time it seemed as if the cheapness of natural oil and spirit would discourage further efforts to discover a method nf producing an ideal synthetic product. But the present Government subsidy-- 
I presume this means assistance provided by the British Government- of 4d. a gallon was a new incentive to further effort. The Imperial Chemical Industries spent £1,000,000 on new plant and other companies also engaged in further experiment. 
This is what I wish to emphasize - 
The British Department of Overseas Trade, in a recent bulletin, says that one of the latest and most important methods is that of the Cannock process, which makes use of radiant heat for breaking up a mixture of coal and tar. It has the merit of simplicity. A staff of five men are now handling 150 tons of coal a day and producing, by the Cannock method, 15 gallons of spirit and 15 cwt. of smokeless fuel from each ton. A famous motorist and a famous airman have each testified to the excellent quality of the spirit produced, and well-known scientists have admitted that the Cannock plant does what is claimed for it. Professor Julian Huxley started his investigations of the new method in a spirit of complete scepticism. "I .felt it was too good to be true ", lie said of the claim made for the Cannock process, hut he had to admit later that he believed it was true. 
Iii view of the results achieved, I maintain that instead of" squandering money in futile efforts to spread the purchasing power  among the workers per medium of the dole, this Government should, without further delay, carry out experiments for the production of oil from our coal .and shale deposits. Are we entirely lacking in initiative that we should wait until som,e one on the other side of the world, some clay and in some way, demonstrates that the production of oil from coal or shale is a commercial possibility? Yet that is the attitude taken up by this Government. It would appear that Ministers and their supporters are afraid of the probable loss - they are cowed by ciphers, as it were - and, because of the risk involved, are afraid to do something really useful for Australia. 
To be absolutely impartial in my discussion of this motion, I direct attention also to another article which appeared in  The Australian Industrial and Mining Standard,  of the same date, dealing with the oil shales of Australia. It was written by  Mr. Hartwell  Conder, M.A., who discusses the problem with all the caution of a tory objector to anything being done by the Government.  Mr. Conder  states - 
From both laboratory and large scale records it is found that a conservative estimate is a yield of 100 gallons of crude oil per ton of « Iia le. 
T think  Senator Dunn  mentioned this figure in the course of his speech.  Mr. Conder  goes on to say - 
To the taxpayer the main issue is the economic one. . . . Total annual costs are estimated at' £218,000, or with output of 125,000 ton's at 35s. a ton.. Depreciation £20,700 increases this by about 4s. per ton to 3!)s. per ton. Income is the result of the following: - 

<graphic href="146332193503285_7_0.jpg"></graphic>

At first glance this would appear satisfactory, since the margin is sufficient to pay good interest on the £(100,000, which is figured us essential capital outlay; but there is a very serious " snag ". 
This will interest the income taxpayers on the other side of the chamber - 
The costs  given  for imported motor spirit are - 

<graphic href="146332193503285_7_1.jpg"></graphic>

The representatives of Queensland in this chamber are interested in the proposal to develop the Newnes shale deposits, because Queensland has large coal deposits having great potential value from the point of view of oil production.  Mr. Conder  argues that, if no excise duty were paid on the 6,000,000 gallons proposed to be produced at Newnes, it would mean a loss of . customs revenue of £187,500 on a similar quantity of imported petrol. I contend, however, that %  Lt  would be a better proposition, and in the interests of the Commonwealth, to develop our own resources, even if we have to forgo a certain amount of customs revenue on imported fuel. Notwithstanding the statement made by the Leader of the Senate with regard to the activities of the Government in this matter, we submit that, if the Ministry had been in earnest, there is not the least doubt, that we should to-day be producing oil in considerable quantities, and thousands of miners, who at present are on the dole, would be again in employment. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  in his reply to  Senator Dunn,  began by a characteristic sneer at the motives underlying the motion. I remind him that our term in this Parliament is short, and that we have no personal interest in the coining elections in New South Wales. This should effectively dispose of his sneer at what he suggests were the motives of my colleague. Delay in accomplishing anything of a practical character in connexion with our shale and coal deposits is due to a conspiracy on the part of huge vested international interests to prevent Australia from developing its known oil resources. We have been told that the Anglo-Persian Oil Company recently sent experts to Australia at its own expense to investigate the possibilities of extracting oil from our shale and coal deposits. Does any honorable senator for a moment think that that concern would have anything to do with a proposal which might interfere with its profits in the Australian trade? I do not like to think evil of any individual, but I know what private enterprise is capable of doing, and I feel sure that, if foreign oil companies take any interest in our affairs, it is not with a view to assisting us to develop our own resources, but to safeguard their own position. The Imperial Chemical Industries Limited, with its head-quarters in Great Britain, is a huge international monopoly, and is not at all likely to do anything to assist in the development of Australian resources in oil fuel, unless it can get its own finger in the pie and reap substantial profits for itself. It is one of the biggest monopolies in existence. Although its head-quarters are in Great Britain, its ramifications extend all over the world. 
I do hot dispute that; but the money has not been expended in Australia. Moreover, I should like to know whether the company is under any obligation to submit reports to the Commonwealth Government, seeing that it has sent its experts here at its own expense. I imagine that six years hence we shall still be hearing various excuses for doing nothing. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  read an amazing story this afternoon, showing how these experiments were continually being altered, because of new discoveries, and the application of fresh methods.. He pointed out that before any practical results could be obtained under one process, the first units installed would become obsolete, and practically so much waste capital. If that statement means anything, it means that we shall go on doing nothing until a perfect system has been evolved; otherwise we shall find, when we have partially completed our works, that they are out of date, and will require to be replaced or modified at considerable expense. To my mind, theseare but ingenious excuses for doing: nothing. There is scarcely any invention, however great its value, which cannot be improved as the result of experience. If the world had waited for a perfect motor car before using the imperfect machines which were first placed on the roads, the present huge industry of motor car manufacturing and its subsidiary industries,, would never have been established. Nearly 50 years ago the Commonweal ti i. Oil Corporation produced oil from shale at Newnes. Previously, at Hartley Vale,, works had been erected, and oil, as well as a number of by-products of considerable value, were extracted from t]iedeposits there. Before the present experiments in Britain were undertaken, works for the extraction of oil from shale had been established in Scotland, and the product had been used 'commercially. The value of the Scottish shale is considerably lower than that of theshales found on the mainland of Australia and in Tasmania. 
Private enterprise failed to make a success of that venture, and no wonder. We hear a good deal of the blunders, mistakes and extravaganceassociated with State enterprise; but if the honorable senator knew even as much as I know of the way in which money was squandered by private enterprise at Newnes, he would not wonder that the experiment failed. Even the railway line which was constructed to link up with the western railway system was enormously expensive. Experts tell us that easier grades could have been found had Newnes been approached by railway from a different direction altogether. TheLeader of the Senate told us to-day that the selection of a suitable site for the establishment.. of the works at Newnes is still under consideration. If the menconcerned deserve the title of experts, they should long ago have found the most suitable place to erect the plant. The reasons advanced for the delay seem to be so flimsy that I can only regard them as a series of ingenious excuses for holding up this work indefinitely. There appears to me to be a conspiracy against the discovery in Australia of oil in its natural state, or the utilization of coal and shale in the production of oil. That is largely the view of  Senator Brown,  who said that vested interests come to this country, not for the purpose of finding oil, but for the express purpose of seeing that it is not found. The way in which bores have been sunk and machinery broken, suggests sabotage on an extensive scale. Until more practical  results are obtained by an earnest government, I shall not be satisfied that vested interests have not deliberately and successfully attempted to prevent both the discovery of oil and the extraction of oil from coal or shale in Australia. I read recen'tly the report of an expert who stated that the quality and nature of coal in different countries, and, indeed, in different districts of the same country, varied so greatly that the most complete experiments in one place were not necessarily a sound guide on which to base ventures in another place. If that he so, surely we should conduct our own experiments on a sufficiently large scale to demonstrate beyond doubt whether or not the desired products can be produced here. I do not pose as one having technical or expert knowledge of this subject, but I do say that all the facts which have accumulated over a number of years indicate that either there has been colossal blundering on the part of the alleged experts, or that most of them have been in the pay of the big oil interests which dominate the oil trade throughout the world. It would appear that we shall never get a square deal here until we have the grit and the energy to take the matter entirely into our own hands, and establish works on a sufficiently large scale to prove whether or not oil can be extracted from coal or shale on anything like  a commercial basis. Even if it is not necessary to have our own. sources of oil for defence purposes, the fact remains that oil is such a necessary commercial commodity, and plays so important a part in the general life of the community, that we would be justified in obtaining our own supplies in this country even at. a cost in excess of that at which oil could be imported. 
The subject introduced by  Senator Dunn  this afternoon is of tremendous interest to Tasmania. I have vivid recollections of a. motor car, bearing a placard stating that it was propelled by petrol extracted from shale from the Latrobe district, being driven through Tasmania about 25 years ago. In those days a large number of Tasmanians saw visions and dreamed dreams. They saw, in fancy, a hive of industry in the Mersey Valley in the vicinity of Latrobe ; a pipe line following the course of the river to the port of Devonport; tankers at Devonport loading the crude oil and taking it to the vessels of the Navy, which at that time were just beginning to burn fuel oil. I suggest to the mover of the motion that it is not quite fair to tax the present Government with laxity in regard to this subject. For many years, and particularly during the last ten years, investigations have been carried out in regard to the extraction of oil from shale, and more recently a vast amount of work has been done, and much money expended, in an endeavour to do so on a commercial basis. I speak now more particularly of the experiments in connexion with the hydrogenation of coal. At the back of the -minds of all the. great powers of the world is the necessity for maintaining adequate fuel supplies. Should they ever, again be engaged in a major war, they will need to be assured of adequate supplies of fuel. In the event of such a struggle, one nation which is now entirely dependent on outside sources for fuel for its air force, its navy, and its mechanized army, would be immobilized in, a month or two because of a shortage of fuel supplies. Its fleet, and, indeed, its whole naval, military and air force equipment . would, in that event, be merely so much junk. The Government has had to proceed cautiously, particularly in regard to Newnes, which was specially mentioned by  Senator Dunn.  It must not bo forgotten that the Commonwealth Oil Corporation lost about £2,000,000 at Newnes, and that, more recently, Messrs. Treganowan and Chambers failed to float a company to develop the deposits there, notwithstanding that they were assured of government assistance. They failed because investors had not been convinced- that oil could be extracted from shale as a commercial proposition. Subsequently, the Lyons Government obtained the services of  Mr. Rogers  to advise it in regard to this matter. If we are to conduct our own experiments, as  Senator Brown  suggested, an initial capital outlay of probably £250,000, and an annual expenditure of £100,000 for the maintenance of a laboratory, would be necessary. Why should we do that, -when we now have full and free access to the results of the experiments carried out at the British' Fuel Research Station at Greenwich? I remind  Senator Brown  that, after all, oil is only a by-product of the process of hydrogenation  of coal, the main product being coke. Where, in Australia, would we find a market for the coke which would be obtained if we were to supply from local sources our own oil requirements? There would be a lack of proportion in regard to the two products. In making these observations, I have been guided by what I have read, and also by letters which 1 have received during the last seven years from a gentleman who has been engaged as a chemist at Billingham-on-Tees, England. Imperial Chemical Industries Limited has spent over £1,000,000 on experiments in connexion with the hydrogenation process, and we shall be able to take full advantage of the results of that expenditure. The suggestion that the experiments conducted by Imperial Chemical Industries Limited are likely to go on indefinitely, is absurd. Is it not reasonable that we should await the report of the first experiment, which will be made available very soon, before incurring further heavy expenditure in this direction? Unless we proceed carefully, step by step, we may find that we have been following the wrong course, and that all our expenditure has been futile. 
No. But it will give our chemists and other experts valuable data on which to base further experiments. Until all the data have been compiled it is idle to suggest the spending of gigantic sums of money on research. .  Senator Brown  has spoken of the squandering o'f money. I suggest that the adoption of his proposal would mean the squandering of money, and the squandering of it blindly. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - My recollection of what the honorable senator said is that it was useless to go on spending gigantic sums of money. He did not ascribe the remark to any particular honorable senator. The point of order cannot be upheld. 
I merely suggested that before we endeavour to produce oil in large quantities by the hydrogenation process, we should await the result of the experiment now being carried on in England - perhaps the biggest of its kind that the world has hitherto known. Scotch shale, which had been worked for 100 years or more, only came into its own during the war period when, for the last eighteen months of the conflict, the British fleet was in the main fuelled by oil extracted from it. That, however, was a war measure; costs then could not be considered since it was absolutely vital that supplies should be forthcoming. Compared with the New South Wales and Tasmanian deposits, Scotch shale is poorer in yield, but the seams there are eight to twenty feet thick as against seams of only about four feet in the case of New South Wales and Tasmania. That makes a tremendous difference to the mining costs. 
In the past vast sums have been invested and lost in efforts to develop the shale deposits in my State and particularly in New South Wales. I cannot, however, agree with the suggestion by honorable senators opposite that some malign influence is at work in an endeavour to retard or prevent the development of the industry. It is impossible to make a comparison between the cost of shale oil and flow oil, and it is certain that at present it is not a commercial proposition to produce shale oil in Australia in competition with flow  oil coming from other parts of the world. Shale oil in time to come may come into its own, but at present its production is unprofitable. Again and again we have hoped that success would attend our efforts, but those hopes have been shattered by the hard, cold, economic fact that the mining, retorting, crushing, and cracking costs are too high to permit it to compete against the flow oil. The representatives of Tasmania and its people generally would be delighted if it were possible to produce oil from shale on a profitable basis, because it would mean much to the island State. But, in the past, it has proved an expensive experiment to many people who have been courageous enough to put their money into it. I suggest to the mover of the motion  (Senator Dunn)  that to endeavour to cast the blame on this Government is rather far-fetched. 
To place the blame on this Government is bordering on the grotesque. 
 in reply  - I thank honorable senators for having given me an opportunity to bring this important matter before the Senate. I desire to congratulate  Senator Sampson  on his clear and fair criticism of my remarks on this subject. I regret that I cannot say the same of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce),  since he dealt quite flippantly with the actions of honorable senators on this side in regard to this matter. During the last six years, this subject has been brought up time and again by my colleague,  Senator Rae,  and myself.I agree with  Senator Sampson  that this Government is not wholly to blame for the delay that has occurred in taking, action. I blame all federal governments. The Leader of the Government, prefaced his remarks by saying that I had brought this matter forward because a State election was pending in New South Wales, and because I feared that Lang candidates would be defeated in . the coal-field divisions of New South Wales. That suggestion comes from a mind as dirty and filthy as a sewer. 
You, sir, did not take the Leader of the Government to task when he attacked me. 
I will not withdraw them. The Leader of the Government should be made to withdraw his offensive words. 
I repeat that his mind is as dirty and as filthy as a sewer. 
 Senator Pearce  owes his position in the public life of this country to-day to men and women like those of the northern districts of New South Wales who assisted in sending him here as a representative of Labour for Western Australia. 
In speaking as he has spoken about Lang candidates in New South Wales, he is a political liar. 
That  Senator Dunn  be suspended from the sitting of the Senate. 
If the Leader of the Government is prepared to withdraw his allegations against the party which I lead in this chamber, and his statement that I as the mover of this motion was actuated by the fact, that a general election was shortly to be held in New South Wales, I will withdraw my remarks. If he will not then I shall repeat that the  allegation comes from the craven, mind of a political coward - a mind as filthy as a sewer. 
Go your hardest I 
You did not ask  Senator Pearce  to withdraw what he said against me. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
What decision has ibeen arrived at by the Government in regard to the request of the Government of Western Australia for assistance towards the provision of an up-to-date dock at Fremantte? 
The Commonwealthasked all States to submit programmes of public works in connexion with its policy of co-operation with the States in order to relieve the unemployment situation. The Government of Western Australia, in a list of works involving a total expenditure of £9.125,000, included provision for a dock at Fremantle at an estimated cost of £1,000,000. 
The amount of £125,000 for the State of Western Australia for which provision was made in the Loan Appropriation (Unemployment Relief) Act 1934 is to be expended on a £1 for £1 basis mainly for water and sewerage works in country towns. 
The other items on the list will he considered when the allocation of further funds by the Commonwealth Government for unemployment relief is receiving attention. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What is the reason for the delay in erecting the promised new studio in Perth for broadcasting station6WF? 
When is it expected that,the construction of the building will be commenced? 
The provision of studio buildings is entirely under the control of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Inquiries have, however, been made and, upon a reply being received, the information will be furnished. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
When is it anticipated that the new broadcasting stations at (a) Minding near Wagin. and (6) Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, will be opened for broadcasting? 
No opening date can be indicated until the testing , period of the station has been reached. This will occur towards the end of the year. 
A decision has not yet been reached to proceed with the erection of a station at Kalgoorlie, but it will be considered in conjunction with the next portion of the construction prograanme to bo undertaken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received a request from the Government of Western Australia foran extension of the assistance given to the States for the purchase of rabbit-proof netting for settlers? 
What decision has been arrived at in the matter ? 
Is it intended to reduce or waive the interest charged in the past on such advances? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
and 3. The Premiers of the States have been asked to furnish the Commonwealth with their views and to submit their proposals regarding the provision of wire and wirenetting to settlers. This matter has also been listed for consideration at the forthcoming meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council to be held in Sydney on the 15th April. 
In view of the reported serious increase in the rabbit pest in Western Australia, is it the intention of the Government to waive or reduce the tariff on rabbit-proof netting or wire imported from foreign countries? 
No. Rabbit-proof netting is admitted free of duty from the United Kingdom and under the Ottawa agreement Australia is committed to maintain the existing margin of £10 per ton in favour of the United Kingdom. . 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs  upon notice - 
When will the Tariff Board's report on motor body panels be available to the Senate? 
The Tariff Board report will be tabled at an early date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice- 
If no finality has been reached in the claim of Captain T. P. Conway for compensation, will the Minister for Defence agree to the appointment of three members of this Semite its a committee to inquire into the claim and report back to the Senate as early as possible? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Have any trade commissioners been appointed in the East since the last sittings of the Senate? 
Is it intended to make any such appointments? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. 
The Government has decided to appoint trade commissioners in Japan, China, Netherlands, East Indies and Egypt. Appointments will be made after the meeting of the Eastern Trade Advisory Committee to be held in Sydney next month. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the amount of gold, valued in Australian currency, held by the Commonwealth Bank ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Acting Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
The question has been referred to the Commonwealth Bank, and a reply will be furnished as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has any communication been received from the British Government, by way of protest or otherwise, concerning Britain's quota for the sale of glass in Australia? 
The Minister for Commerce states that the answer is - No. 
[5.0]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The principal object of the bill, which is to amend the Loan Appropriation (Unemployed Relief) Act 1934, is to provide for an additional appropriation of £531,000 for the purpose of relieving unemployment. The principal act appropriated a total sum of £1,533,750. The additional appropriations included in this bill amounting to £531,000, increase the total appropriation in the act as amended to £2,064,750. 
The bill provides for the granting of financial assistance to the States for afforestation to the extent of £322,000, and for the expenditure of £9,000 for this purpose in the Federal Capital Territory. Except in the cases of South Australia and Tasmania, assistance is to be granted by the Commonwealth on a £1 for £1 basis. As South Australia is already spending a considerable amount on forestry, and the amount to be made available by this bill is not very large,  the Commonwealth did not insist on a like contribution by the State. As regards Tasmania, £5,000 is the limit to which the Tasmanian Government felt it could contribute towards this scheme. The amount to be provided by the Commonwealth for each State, and the States' contribution, are as follows: - 
The general principles and conditions of the scheme of assistance include the following: - 
To provide reproductive employment, which will be in addition to other measures for re-employing men, and will ultimately contribute to an increase in the national wealth; 
Funds made available under the scheme are to be supplementary to those funds normally provided by the State for afforestation; 
Of the total amounts provided by the Commonwealth and the State, 20 per cent, is to bc used in absorbing in employment youths under 21 years of age. 
The scheme is to be administered by a trust consisting of two or more trustees, one of whom is to be appointed by the Commonwealth. This is similar to the scheme to provide assistance to the metalliferous mining industry. In explaining the variations in the amounts which the bill appropriates for assistance to the several States, I may say that the Commonwealth has agreed to provide money only in respect of forestry work over and above the ordinary State programme. As some of the States already have in hand extensive forestry programmes which do not admit of any immediate substantial increase - South Australia is already spending £150,000 per annum on this type of work - the amounts in the bill represent the sums which the States can utilize in addition to those moneys which they are finding for their usual forestry work. The assistance proposed in the bill is to cover a period of one year. The continuance of assistance on these lines in a second and third year will be reviewed when results of the first year's work become known, by which time the 
Commonwealth will be in a better position to gauge the extent of the funds which can be made available for this and other forms of employment assistance. 
The principal act included as one of its provisions an appropriation of £200,000 for relief works under federal departments. The present bill provides for an additional amount of £200,000 to be appropriated for the same purpose. The manner in which this amount will be expended is indicated in the schedule to the bill, from which it will be seen that the amount is allocated for works and services of the various departments as under - 
The works for which the amount of £200,000 is being provided are of an essential character, and thus the  provi-sion  will meet essential needs of the departments, whilst at the same time providing a further substantial amount for the relief of unemployment. 
The principal act appropriated £50,000 for assistance to the metalliferous mining industry in the Northern territory. Since that act was passed by Parliament consideration has been given to the desirableness of assisting and developing the metalliferous mining industry in Papua. The Papuan Government is not able financially to assist the industry, but the discovery of a payable field would be of considerable benefit to the territory. The mining industry in New Guinea gives employment to over 500 Europeans, but the industry in Papua provides for 58 only. The extension of mining activities in the territories would provide a field for future employment, and, no doubt, if that, field were open a number of Australians would find employment there. To show the effect of the discovery of gold in these two territories I may mention that owing to  the production of an immense quantity of gold in New Guinea, that territory is able to carry &lt;on without any financial assistance from the Commonwealth and is even able to show a surplus in its accounts. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. In Papua, on the other hand, there is provision this year for a subsidy of over £40,000, but there is little doubt that if assistance can be given to prospecting there new fields will be discovered and the development of those mining areas will greatly improve the financial position of the territory. 
The bill provides for £5,000 to be appropriated for this purpose, and this amount is being diverted from the £50,000 appropriated in the original act for the mining industry in the Northern Territory. 
It will be of interest to honorable senators to note the total extent to which assistance has been given during this financial year for the relief of unemployment, including the provision in the bill now before the Senate. Since the beginning of the current financial year the total sum of £6,514,253 has been provided for works expenditure (including the provision in this bill). This total is made up. as follows : - 

<graphic href="146332193503285_17_4.jpg"></graphic>

The provision of this amount of £6,500,000 is a very important contribution towards the relief of unemployment, constituting as it does an increase of more than £4,000,000 over "the actual total works expenditure during the previous financial year. 
The  appropriations already passed  have  very materially contributed to the reduction of unemployment throughout Australia, and it is thought that the additional provision for which parliamentary authority is now sought in this bill, will further assist in this direction. The works will be proceeded with  as  soon as necessary plans can be completed, and will assist in providing winter relief employment. I have obtained the latest trade union figures dealing with unemployment in the fourth quarter of 1934. The percentage of trade unionists unemployed is given as f follows:- Commonwealth, 18.8 per centi; New South  Wales,  23.5 per cent.; Victoria, 15*3  per  cent.; Queensland-, 9.1 per cent.; South Australia, 23 per cent.; Western Australia, 16.3 per  Gent.;  Tasmania, 17  per  cent. Corresponding figures at the  peak  period of unemployment in 1932, namely, the second quarter, show that, as far  as  the Commonwealth is concerned,  there has  been a reduction of 11.2 per cent, in unemployment. In the 1932 period the number of trade unionists out  of work  was 124,068,  as  compared  with  80,097 as at December, 1934, the reduction in the latter period being 43,971. While it is a matter for regret that so many workers  are  unemployed, it is satisfactory to know that the number is decreasing and that in the two-year period mentioned there has been a substantial improvement. 
 There  is provision for an expenditure of 20 per cent, of the total sum for employment of youths. 
No ; Tasmania can find only £5,000, but  the  Commonwealth is contributing £25,000, whereas in other States the contribution is on the £1 for £1 basis. 
.- Since this is a measure to provide money for the purposes of employment, I do not dosire the adjournment of the debate. My purpose rather is to ensure a speedy passage for the bill. My only regret is that the amount to be made available is not very much larger, because unemployment in Australia is extremely grave. I see no possibility of a return to prosperity until more of our people arc again in regular employment. I do not quite agree with the figures with regard to the unemployment situation quoted by the Leader of the Senate, because I feel sure that the information gathered by the statistician does not disclose the real situation. I admit that the statistician does his best to inform the people of Australia of the number who are out of work in this country, but the fact remains that some industrial organizations do not submit returns to the statistician and those that do furnish information are not in a position to give precise details of the number of their members who are unemployed. 
At the present time my union has a membership of about 60,000 as compared with a membership a few years ago of 150,000. The decline in numbers is due to the fact that so many men belonging to it are out of work and cannot afford to buy their tickets. Therefore, it is really impossible to state exactly how many of our members are employed and how many are without work. 
I have studied the census figures carefully, and I find that in Victoria alone there are 93,000 people who have no income at all, 262,000 earn up to £52 a year, and 161,000 have an income of £103 a year. 
I do not know. 
The unemployment figures reveal an appalling situation, and force me to the conclusion that there is no possibility of a return to prosperity in Australia until many more of out people are again working. I am not blaming any government for the present lamentable state of affairs, but it is the concern of this Government to do what is possible to improve the situation. Persons unemployed for any length of time have practically no standard of living. 
The Leader of the Senate mentioned that some portion of the money would be set aside for afforestation in the various States. That is a sound proposition. In all the States useful work is being done in this direction. In the Ballarat district the Water Commission has a large timber reserve and although the  chairman  of the Commission informed me some time ago that the expenditure on it had been heavy, he assured me that when the trees reached maturity and were marketable, the amount realized would show a handsome profit. We read from time to time in our newspapers articles emphasizing the need for a vigorous forest policy due to the destruction of vast areas of our virgin forests and warning us that unless* timely action is taken, Australia one day. will be obliged to import hardwoods. It has always seemed to me to be stupid to neglect our opportunities in this direction, particularly in view of the fact tihat we have immense areas suitable for the growing of excellent timber. It is said that we cannot get the money to employ our people ; but I have stated frequently, and I repeat now, that any government which makes up its mind to do so, can find employment for everyone of them by using the credit of the nation for the purpose. It is time that some legislative body blazed the track. Unfortunately, we are content to carry on with an old machine which is worn out. Are we so stupid that we are unable to apply the labour available to the lands of this country in a way which would not only provide food for the workers, but, in addition, revenue for the Treasury? If the policy which I have outlined were followed, there would, before long, not be an idle man in Australia. It may be said that such a policy has never yet been tried. I agree. The Labour party wants to try it, because it believes that only by the adoption of such a policy can we hope to escape from our present difficulties. 
I should like the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  when replying, to say whether there is, either in the principal act or in this bill, any provision that the money proposed to be allocated to the States, or other authorities, shall be expended only in the employment of men at award rates and conditions. The Scullin Government made that a condition of every grant to the States, or to municipal or other semi-governmental bodies. If that provision is made, I have no objection to the bill. Indeed, I would cheerfully vote to double, or even treble, the money proposed to be expended. 
I am glad that the Government has seen its way to introduce a bill to amend the Loan Appropriation (Unemployment Belief) Act of last year by providing a larger sum of money for the purposes outlined in that measure. Honorable senators who heard the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  this afternoon must realize that the wise and discriminate expenditure of the money provided by this measure will do a great deal to grant relief to those who, unfortunately, are now out of work. The money voted last year is to be supplemented by a further expenditure of. £531,000. 
I was interested to find that provision is made for the development of the mining industry in both the Northern Territory and Papua, but I regret that Papua is to be assisted at the expense of the industry in the Northern Territory. I should like to have seen the full amount of £50,000 made available to the Northern Territory to assist in the discovery of new mineral deposits there and the development of areas which have already been located. About eighteen months ago, I was at Tennant's Creek when the gold rush there began. From what I saw then, and have learned since, 1 have no doubt that, in course of time, Tennant's Creek will be a prosperous gold-field. The expenditure there of an  additional £10,000, or even £50,000, subject to the condition that it be expended with discrimination, would be justified. 
Considering the handicaps which it has had to face, Papua has done well. One cannot fail to recognize the magnificent work which has been done there under the wise administration of the Lieutenant-Governor,  Sir Hubert  Murray. He is indeed a marvellous public servant. In a report from Papua some time ago, I noticed optimistic references to the possibility of further mineral development, provided additional finance were made available to allow of the systematic prospecting of certain areas being undertaken. The Leader of the Senate mentioned that in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea the discovery and exploitation of wonderful gold-fields to the west, of Edie Creek, Bulolo, and other localities, had enabled that territory to carry on without any financial assistance from the Commonwealth. Had it not been for the opening up and development of those gold-fields, we, in this Parliament, would have been called upon to provide large sums of money for that territory during the last four years. Just when the revenue from the export of copra failed because of the low price of that product, the export duty on gold providentially came to the rescue and compensated the administration there for the entire losses incurred in connexion with the export of copra. So successful has gold-mining been in New Guinea that the people there have been able to carry on without being unduly harassed by excessive taxation. The Mandated Territory of New Guinea has probably the lightest taxation of any country south of the line. If such satisfactory results can be obtained in that mandated territory, it is reasonable to suppose that in Papua, across the border line valuable deposits of gold also exist. The only thing which has prevented the administration there from carrying out a systematic prospecting policy has been the lack of funds. The money proposed to be allocated to Papua under this bill will be of great value in that direction. I hope that, if its expenditure brings about satisfactory results, the amount now to be allocated will be supplemented next year by a larger vote. 
Probably the most important provision of the bill is that which has to do with the allocation of money to be expended by the States in afforestation. The Commonwealth could not assist a more laudable undertaking. Honorable senators know of the enormous losses which have been caused through the erosion of the land due to the decimation of our forests. During recent years, the result of thaterosion has been most marked. Enormous sums of money have had to be expended in order to provide relief to people whose holdings have been damaged or destroyed by floodwaters. That damage would not have been caused had it not been for the destruction of our forests. I refer now, not to the ordinary clearing of forest lands, but to the damages of bushfires. In any policy of reafforestation it is necessary to provide that the money shall not be wasted because of failure to take the necessary precautions against bushfires. I could take honorable senators to forest areas where large sums of money have been spent for nought, because, after the trees had been growing for some time, they were entirely destroyed by bushfires. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  referred to the forest reserves in the vicinity of Ballarat. Those forests will be a success because, not only has there been a wise selection of trees, and systematic planting, but also an efficient patrol system and proper precautions against the destruction of the timber by fires. If we spend £500,000 in reafforestation, and fail to take precautions against fires, we might, possibly, just as well throw the money into the sea, except that in the planting of the trees unemployment would be relieved. A policy of afforestation must bring permanent and beneficial results to the Commonwealth, provided that policy is accompanied by wise provision for the protection of areas after planting and during the growing period. I am glad that in this bill a stipulation is made that 20 per cent, of those to be engaged shall be youths who are unemployed at the present time. That will afford at least a certain measure of relief. I think, however, I might be pardoned if, while expressing approval of the policy of the Government, I urge upon it the absolute necessity of going much further in its effort to deal with the problem of unemployed youths. I urge the Government to realize that, up to the present, it has not done all that is possible and all that many people expected of it. Because of the greatness of the problem, it is absolutely essential that the Commonwealth should cooperate with the States at the earliest possible moment in an endeavour to evolve a scheme which would result in the employment of the whole of our unemployed youths. 
 I would have no objection to sending the right type of youths there under proper conditions. I have some knowledge of this country. But all boys are not alike; some make good in a certain avocation while others fail in it. It is apparent that something must be done to prevent youths . growing up to manhood in idleness, and unless we do that speedily this country will suffer for many years as a result of our neglect. I do not care whether provision is made for their employment by governments, commissions, or individuals. The main consideration is that they shall be employed. 
-I refuse to be sidetracked . by the honorable senator. I repeat that it is essential that occupation be found for these lads during the critical period of their lives. Unless something of this kind is done, anything might happen in Australia. The vital statistics show the alarming position to which this country has drifted. I do not say that it is entirely due to the unemployment of so many of our youths, but their inability to get work is a contributing factor to that position which, if it is allowed to continue, will result in our being down and out within the next 40 years. That factor must be dealt with. I support the bill. 
 My objection to this bill is that the increased provision that it makes for the relief of unemployment should be much larger than it is. Last year, when the unemployment figures were furnished by the Commonwealth Statistician, they were so alarming that I was inclined to doubt my own arithmetical calculations; but time has shown that they were right. On the publication of these returns, the Melbourne  Age,  which is not a Labour newspaper, made the following comments: - 
It is surprising to discover that, when the census was taken in June last year (1933), the position in Australia was relatively more aente than in Great Britain. Our unemployed then, despite some evidence of improvement during the preceding year, totalled 481,044, or  22.4  per cent. of the working population ; . the comparative British figure was 19.4 por sent. Since then further improvement has occurred, and the official estimate for August of this year was 380,350 unemployed, equivalent to 18 per cent. 
These figures are alarming. As  Senator Barnes  has said the official figures regarding unemployment do not accurately disclose the true position. As a matter of fact, great difficulty is experienced in the compilation of reliable returns and unemployment is really much greater than the official figures would lead us to believe. As I have emphasized before, the only way to improve the employment position is to adopt a vigorous policy of public works.  [Quorum formed."]  I regret that so many honorable senators absented themselves from the chamber during the time when  Senator Payne  was speaking, and I intend to insist upon a quorum being present, especially as honorable senators opposite have just thrown out two honorable senators who sit on this side of the chamber. 
The Leader of the Government did not endeavour to understand  Senator Dunn.  I admit that the honorable senator is a difficult man to handle, but honorable senators opposite should have been satisfied with his head instead of demanding also the head of  Senator Rae. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P.  J. Lynch). - The honorable senatoris not in order in reflecting upon a vote of the Senate. 

 Senator J. V. MacDONALD.Twentysix out of the 36 members of the Senate belong to either the United Australia party or the United Country party. They should endeavour to keep a quorum present. Especially is this so, having regard to the fact that they voted to throw out two good Labour men from this side of the Chamber who areregular in their attendance and are always pro pared to discuss fully and fairly whatever business comes before the Senate. 
Order ! The honorable senator is not discussing the business before the Senate. 
Order ! 

 Senator j. V. MacDONALD.Honorable senators opposite show a lack of appreciation of the seriousness of the position of the unemployed when, after putting two honorable senators of the working class on the unemployed list, they are not prepared to keep a quorum present while the important subject of unemployment relief is being debated by one of their own party. 
I am waiting for the honorable senator to connect his remarks with the bill. 
The other States could well adopt a similar policy. If there were less jealousy between the States a greater number of public works could be undertaken even under the present restricted Commonwealth policy. When travelling through South Australia and Western Australia recently I noticed large numbers of unemployed. Yet  Senator Foll,  a little while ago, declared that he would not support a proposal for the expenditure of £2,000,000 of Commonwealth money in South Australia to convert the East- West railway line to the standard gauge of 4 ft. 8½ in. 
I ask the honorable senator to discuss the bill. 
We on this side always support measures for the expenditure of public money for the development of the country and the provision of purchasing power for those who are out of employment. The Leader of the Senate, in quoting from the census returns, would have us believe that the figures do not afford a true reflex of the position. Personally, I consider the figures to be of a staggering nature, showing- that unemployment is far more widespread than it is supposed to be. Whilst it is admitted that old-age pensioners and others are covered by the statistics, I understand that a number of persons on short time were not included. This fact should be kept in mind, because many thousands of men and women in Australia, through the rationing of work, are not receiving sufficient food, clothing and shelter. Although we commend the Government for its proposal to spend an additional £531,000 for the relief of unemployment, we realize that it is impossible for the Government to solve this problem on the lines followed by it up to the present time. The members of this Parliament sit in Canberra for only a short period in each year, and if the unemployed were permitted to work on a similar basis the problem would be solved. I have no doubt that the time is approaching when unemployed persons will not be penalized because of their misfortune, but will be paid for their leisure time. All unemployed men and women should be paid a weekly amount to enable them to live in comparative comfort instead of having to take the dole. The present Government has not seriously tackled this problem. An honorable member in the other branch of the legislature has declared that there will always be 200,000 unemployed in Australia. I hope that honorable senators do not hold that view, although members of the tory government in Great Britain have declared that it is impossible to solve this problem.  Senator Payne  is a member of a party which considers that this evil cannot be eliminated. 
The method adopted by the Government is paltry in the extreme, having regard to the magnitude of the task. There has never beeu a period in Australian history when we have produced more of those commodities which the people require. Notwithstanding the wealth which this country produces, thousands are in need, but all that this Government can offer is a paltry £500,000 to be expended chiefly on afforestation. An afforestation policy should be proceeded with vigorously because owing to the greed of certain persons many of our forests have been completely denuded, thus bringing about, erosion which has cost the country millions of pounds. I read only the other day that as a result of huge duststorms in the United States of America, caused largely by the destruction of timber, many farms had been wiped out. According to one authority, the land will not be productive for possibly a hundred years. 
I was not a mem-: her of this Parliament when the Scullin Government was in power. I do not propose to compare this Government with any Labour government, but I say, emphatically, that the methods now being pursued will not assist the Commonwealth to overcome its economic difficulties, or solve any of the pressing problems which now confront it. 
I know that  Senator Payne  is anxious to help in the solution of these problems, but the party with which, he is associated is not likely to give him a lead. I was pleased to hear the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  say that in Queensland the percentage of unemployment is only 9.1, which is probably lower than that of any other State, due largely to the fact that that State is controlled by a Labour government. The amount to be appropriated under this bill for expenditure in Queensland is smaller than that to be expended in New South Wales, where an anti-Labour government is in power. 
Queensland is being bled as a result of Commonwealth taxation, as I shall show the honorable senator. 
SenatorFoll.  -  If the honorable senator will refer to his taxation assessments, he. will find that the Commonwealth tax is not half as much as that of the State tax. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I ask the honorable senator not to be led away from the subjectmatter of the -bill by interjections. 
The Premier of Queensland,  Mr. Forgan  Smith, stated at a constitutional conference held in Melbourne, that in 1928-29, including the unemployment relief tax, the Queensland Government collected in that State £5,128,000, whereas the Commonwealth authorities collected £4,718,000. In 1932-33, the amount collected by the State Government was £5,587,000, and that collected by the Commonwealth authorities was £5,200,000. The Premier went on to say that the unemployment relief tax was specially imposed to meet a definite situation arising from the fact that under the capitalist system we experienced a period of deflation when we should have been prosperous. This necessitated the imposition of such a tax. Excluding that special tax, the figures quoted by the Premier of Queensland are astounding. For the financial year 1928-29, the amount collected by the State Government was £5,128,000 and that collected by the Commonwealth authorities was £4.718,000. In 1932-33, the Queensland 
Government collected £3,781,000, and the Commonwealth £5,200,000. Despito the fact that the amount which the Commonwealth collects from the Queensland people has increased from £4,718,000 to £5,200,000, and the amount collected by the State Government has decreased from £5,128,000 to £3,781,000, the Government proposes under this bill to allocate only £30,000 to Queensland. 
The Commonwealth Government has expended most  of  the money it has received. Although informed from time to time that the Commonwealth has shown a surplus, the Auditor-General in his annual report states that there have not been any actual surpluses, and that there is still a deficit of £17,000,000, which has not been taken into consideration. 
The Commonwealth Government has spent money in various directions, but that does not dis- pose of the fact that the amount colected by the State Government has decreased, while that raised by the Commonwealth authorities has increased. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

Dealing with unemployment the Premier and Treasurer of Queensland stated recently that - 
The Commonwealth does not take direct responsibility for unemployment relief, notwithstanding the fact that buoyancy of Commonwealth revenue, due to increased customs revenue particularly may mean' an increase of unemployment in the States, owiug to the lessened demand for goods of local manufacture. 
That, I suggest, is an important point to bear in mind when considering the problem of unemployment. As  Mr. Forgan  Smith pointed out, it may be the direot result of Commonwealth Government policy, and then, because of the difficult situation which has developed, we have the spectacle of a government which may be, to some extent, responsible  for it, offering relief by way of grants or subsidies for expenditure by State governments. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate and his supporters how do they expect to overcome the unemployment problems that confront us. It is absolutely impossible by the adoption of these methods for this Government to provide a solution. In recent years the Commonwealth and States' public debts have been increased, and apparently the Ministry and its supporters expect us to get over our troubles by getting further into debt! Can any Government supporter offer any ray of hope if the Government proceeds along these lines, instead of bringing forward practical proposals, to overcome our difficulties? I shall be glad if they can show the benighted Labour representatives on this side of the chamber how, by these methods, they expect to achieve their purpose. 
I do not wish to delay the passage of this bill, but I feel strongly on this matter, and cannot allow this opportunity to pass without giving expression to my views on the subject. I believe that we have reached a stage in our economic development which requires us to consider whether it is possible, under the present world system of capitalism, to overcome our economic trouble by the adoption of a temporary expedient. In other words, I believe that world capitalism has reached a stage of development which precludes the possibility of a solution of the problem which to-day confronts all the nations. 
I shall endeavour to satisfy the honorable senator on that point before I resume my seat. My present purpose is to make clear to Government supporters if I can - I know that my friend, Brian Penton, has accused me of talking in Scotch and thinking in Dutch - that modern capitalism, as a system of development, has been responsible for such a rapid expansion of trade throughout the world that we have now reached the stage where expansion is on the decline, and it is impossible for certain avenues of investment to be utilized with profit. The consequence is that nations are now being forced back upon themselves to find a way out of their commercial and industrial troubles. Therefore, it follows that if this important avenue is closed to investment those responsible for the direction of government policy must turn to a vigorous policy of public works as the only alternative. On this point I notice that  Mr. Davidson,  the general manager of the Bank of New South Wales, is in agreement with me, and I may add that  Mr. Forgan  Smith, the Premier of Queensland, who has  made a deep study of the economic situation, takes every opportunity available to him to utilize money at. a reasonable rate for the intensive development of that State. The result of his policy is seen in the unemployment figures for the fourth quarter of 1934, quoted this afternoon by the Leader of the Senate, who pointed out that the greatest improvement was shown in Queensland where unemployment was now down to 9.1 per cent. It is incontrovertible that the improvement of the position in Queensland is the direct result of government policy. I know that critics of "that State will put to me the question - What about the future? They will say that a day of reckoning will come; that, eventually, it will be impossible for the people to meet the interest bill for government expenditure upon public works, and that despite the present stage of development, the last state of Queensland will be worse than the first. That is the argument that will be advanced by our critics. I would, however, remind them that we have to deal with the situation as we find it, and that since there is no other avenue for the profitable investment of money, the only alternative is the adoption of a vigorous public works policy. Can any government supporters point to any particular industry in which they would care to invest their capital at the present time? I am sure that they would not invest money in wheat production, and I doubt that they would invest in wool. Obviously, the manufacturing industries are apprehensive that as a result of the visit to Great Britain of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  to conduct negotiations with British Ministers and manufacturers there will be a diminution of their activities in the near future due to a lowering of the tariff barrier in respect of many items. 
If we are to deal intelligently with unemployment we must take full cognizance of the development that has taken place under the existing capitalistic system in other countries. We must bear in mind that, as their difficulties are as great, perhaps, as our own, they are closing the avenues of trade in the hope that, by so doing, they will improve  their position.  Mr. Bruce  has something interesting to say on this point. Speaking on the 6th March, 1935, at a meeting of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, in London, he said - 
Politicians can never successfully handle the question of complementary trade which is now in the hands of the commercial leaders of the country. Complementary trade to-ds,y bore not the slightest relationship to one of the most ghastly menaces in existence - the theory of compensation agreements which wag rife throughout the world. 
That is the sort of theory which this Government is attempting to put into practice per medium of trade agreements with other countries, such as the trade agreement with Belgium in regard to glass.  Mr. Bruce,  the elect of the Tory party, and for many years a Prime Minister of Australia, makes a damaging admission. If he is right, then clearly the proposals being brought forward by this Government are doomed to failure.  Mr. Bruce  and many  other students of  the present world economic situation are convinced that the world has reached such a stage of productivity that nations are being forced back upon themselves in order to solve their unemployment difficulties. 
What has the present Government done to meet the situation that confronts us? Apparently it is obsessed with the idea of trade agreements with other countries. But that alone, as I have shown, is no remedy. And certainly the appropriation of a few hundred thousand pounds will not take us very far along the road to national recovery. Our friends among government supporters will ask what suggestions we have  to  make to  meet this  situa- tion. I tell them that we approach its consideration with the knowledge that capitalism and international trade are on the decline. Therefore we seek a solution of our unemployment problem by some internal adjustment of our social system. 
The United States of America is trying out a number of experiments.  President  Roosevelt has for two or three years been invested with more power than has been given to any other  President  of that great republic. He has offered the people a new deal based upon the National Recovery Act, and by the adoption of certain radical legislative machinery he has introduced into industry the system of the minimum wage with a view to increasing the purchasing power of the people. Trade unions are now recognized in that country, and he is endeavouring to compel leaders of industry to treat their employees decently in the hope that, by these means, the problem in America may be solved. But so great is the money power there that it is impossible, under the present system, to achieve that purpose. A few years ago,  President  Hoover declared that America must have avenues overseas whereby its goods could be exported in huge quantities, in return for which, as interest, it would take only small quantities of goods from other countries. That would, no doubt, relieve the situation in the United States, but  President  Roosevelt has discovered that it is impossible to persuade other countries to take American goods on such terms. On the contrary, foreign countries are closing their doors to trade in the hope that, by so doing, they may ease the difficulties of their own people. The same course is being pursued by Australia. t Only today we heard the argument that, because of our adverse trade balance with the United States of America, we should out down our imports from that country and give our custom elsewhere.  Mr. Bruce  has described that as a " ghastly menace " to trade relationships.  President  Roosevelt has been endeavouring to raise the standard of living for the people in the United States of America by spreading the purchasing power of the wage-earners. But he started at the wrong end. The purchasing power of the people in the United 
States of America is less to-day tb.au it was before the passing of the National Recovery Act. Although he established a minimum wage in industry, because of the greed of employers the minimum wage tends to become the maximum. He also reduced the hours of labour, but, in doing so, he also reduced the wages of labour, with the result that purchasers are to-day taking off the market less than they were prior to the adoption of the National Recovery Act. It is true that, in some respects, there has been an improvement in the industrial situation in the United States of America, but, for the most part, the people there are, to-day, in a worse position than they were a few years ago. In many respects, the act has been ineffective. Take for example the position of the farmers. Under governmental direction, they reduced the acreage, and destroyed stock. They were paid to produce fewer pigs and cattle, and less grain, and other commodities, and for destroying areas under cotton. But what was the result? The farmers took the money, and, like sensible people, bought fertilizers .with it, and produced greater quantities of cotton and other farm products from a reduced acreage; As a result of the increased use of fertilizers by the American farmers, more cotton was produced, although the area planted was less. The United States of America is in a serious economic position to-day, because the people of that country do not yet understand the problems confronting them. Every increase of productivity should be accompanied 'by an increased purchasing power on the part of the people. We are told that the Government has a scheme for the rehabilitation of rural industries, and the adjustment of the debts of farmers. Wheat farmers owe £140,000,000. The honorable member for Gwydir in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Abbott)  says that the wool-growers of Australia owe about £150,000,000 and that other producers owe £200,000,000 more. What hope is there ' of solving the problem of the debts of the primary producers by making available the sum of £12,000,000? Is it possible by measures of this kind to overcome the gigantic problems which con front us? Before we can solve those problems there must be a reorientation of the whole economic system in order to equate our distribution system to our system of production. Until those who are in power in this country see the problem from that point of view, it will not be solved. We cannot alleviate the position of the farmers until we take deliberate steps to see that with every increase of productivity we make it possible to distribute more goods to the people. While we -on this side are prepared to support the Government in every effort it makes to ameliorate the lot of the people, we realize that these efforts are, after all, only palliatives. 
I agree with the proposal to go ahead with a scheme of reafforestation, and I urge the Government to follow the example of Queensland by stipulating that every man working in the forests shall receive award rates. In New South Wales and other tory centres, the authorities are taking advantage of the poverty of the workers to place them in camps and pay them about 30s. a week. I agree with my Leader that if the Commonwealth Government allocates money to the States it should see that the workers employed by the expenditure of that money are given a square deal, and are paid award rates for their labour. If advantage is taken of their poverty to reduce their rates of pay, their purchasing power is not increased, and consequently the country is unable to overcome its problems. It is not sufficient to increase production. Improved methods of production necessitate also the giving to the producers of sufficient purchasing power to enable them to buy those things which they have produced. I believe that this nation could be roused to deal with this problem as it was roused during the war. Even though there is a diminution of exports from this country because of the competition of Denmark, the Argentine and other countries, we should so organize things in this country that we shall be able to employ our people in such a. way that they will use their labour power for the general development of Australia, and the increasing of the economic status of its people, so that every person in the community shall be economically as well as politically free. 
I have received from various- people a number of books and magazines which purport to give a true account of conditions in Russia. It would appear that the difficulty there is not the finding of wort for the people, but the shortage of technicians and craftsmen to carry out the works decided on. 
In the past, that has been a problem in Russia ; but recent reports show that, as a result of an intensive agricultural policy,, the difficulty is less than ever before. 
I admit that the standard of living in Russia is lower than it is in Australia. Immediately after the war Russia was surrounded by enemies, and, in addition, there was trouble internally between the White Guards and the Bolsheviks. Russia found it necessary to con-vert to an industrial state a nation 90 per cent, agrarian. No impartial man who knows of the terrific struggle of the people of Russia will deny that its people have worked wonders. Although the standard of living in that country is not high, I gather from books which have been sent to me - books banned by the present Government - that there is an everincreasing amount of wealth going into the hands of the common people who produce it. There is also a reduction of working hours. If Russia continues along the lines that it has been following, I predict that in less than ten years that- country will have reached a position equal to that of England or America. Russia is going forward while other countries are slipping back. Magazines which I have received from Russia contain photographs of the huts occupied by the unemployed in Australia, and accounts of ex-soldiers and others dying because of malnutrition. Honorable senators opposite may smile, but they cannot deny that in this rich country, which contains an abundance of food, there are between 300,000 and; 400,000 workers unemployed, and many people on the verge of starvation. In the light of those facts; why sneer at Russia?  Mr. Lyons,,  accompanied, by several Ministers and a small- army of officers, is now in England trying to make arrangements with the authorities there for the disposal of Australia's surplus* meat production. Various proposals to overcome the difficulty have been made'; some advocate a quota, others a tariff, while- still others say that the agreements with the Argentine and Denmark must be kept. Two years ago, when I predicted that Australia would have trouble in disposing pf its wheat, ex-Senator Colebatch disagreed with my view ; but my prediction came true in less than two years. Only the other day the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  said that there was a possibility of the British Government restricting importations of butter from Australia. What is the Government doing about that matter? What can it do about it ? Parliament meets for a few weeks and passes a few measures; but nothing of any real- value is accomplished. Instead- of sneering at other countries, we should try to understand them. For that reason any literature dealing with other countries- instead of being banned, should be encouraged. I should like to know, for instance) what Hitler is doing to meet the economic position of Germany, and what Mussolini is doing in Italy to solve the problems of that country. Books dealing with such subjects might help u? in the solution of our problems. We should welcome all the information that we can get. Honorable senators opposite may sneer, but I and my comrades are deadly sincere, when we say that before long this Senate will have to take notice of facts. The wealth of this country must be so controlled that every man, woman and child in the community will have not only the necessaries of life, but  also a share of the best that this country can give to them. Instead of legislating for the benefit of the people as a whole, tha Government is pandering to the few. Until we have sufficient courage to tackle the problems confronting us we shall, T suppose, continue to discuss the expenditure of a few thousand pounds here and a few thousand pounds there; but we shall  not get to the root of the trouble. We on this side accept what is offered in this legislation, and hope that it will bring some measure of comfort into the homes of the people, by giving purchasing power to those who now cannot buy because they are out of work, and have no money. 
 I should like to go into the interesting questions raised by  Senator Brown,  and give my views as to how the people invest their money, and why; and also to discuss whether or not capitalism is on the decline, even in Russia. 
Yes. Great, however, as the temptation is to discuss those questions, I shall not do so to-night. 
I do not propose to discuss in detail the provisions of this bill. I am glad that it contains a provision for a small grant to Papua to assist the mining industry. In December last, I suggested that Papua might have been included in the main bill, and the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  then said that he would see what could be done. I take it that this is what is now called the implementation of that promise. 
Coming to clause  9,  which provides for assistance to the States for purposes of forestry, I want to raise a point for the consideration of the Government, and, at the same time, I want it to be understood that in no sense do I look a gift horse in the mouth. As I understand it, the Commonwealth has allocated  £17,000  to South Australia without stipulating that the State shall spend a corresponding amount. The Leader of the Senate, in introducing this hill, mentioned that South Australia was already providing  £150,000  this year for the promotion of forestry. I suggestthat the amounts in respect of forestry which the States have already provided in their own Estimates might fairly be taken into consideration in deciding the extent of the assistance to be provided by the Commonwealth. For instance, I do not know what amounts the States of Victoria and New South Wales have provided on their 
Estimates for the purposes of forestry, but, under this bill, those States are each to receive  £100,000  on condition that they expend a similar amount; while South Australia, which has already provided  £150,000,  is to receive only  £17,000.  As I have said, a fairer way of dealing with this matter would have been to take into account the sums which- the States had already arranged to spend during the year on forestry, and not what additional sum they were prepared to spend over and above the amount which had already been voted for that purpose. 
I am glad that in this bill some effort has been made to provide employment for our young men. That action must commend itself  to all honorable senators. Although the stipulation has been made that only  20  per cent, of the number to be employed shall be youths, it is, at least, a move in the right direction. I am also glad, with a qualification, to notice that it is intended to make grants to all States, for all purposes, to ah equal amount, so that they may be placed, roughly, on a population basis. I do not know that I would adhere to the population basis with regard to a question of this kind, although since the grant is primarily to deal with unemployment, such a basis offers, in some respects, a fair way of dealing with the problem. But there is this difficulty that, in the matter of forestry, the larger States, such as Western Australia and Queensland, on a population basis, get a comparatively small amount by contrast with the more closely settled States having a smaller area, such, for instance, as Victoria. Another factor which also must be taken into consideration is the suitability of the soil for forestry purposes. But the Government, it seems to me, is getting very close to the constitutional barrier against preference to States. The intention of the framers of the Constitution was obviously that there should be equal treatment of all States. Section  51a  of" the Constitution Act, which governs taxation, section  99,  which regulates trade, commerce, and revenue. and section  102,  which deals with the levying of customs duties, provide that no preference is to be given to any one State. The general idea behind the Constitution Act is that the 
States should have equal treatment; that payments should not be made according to population or area, but that all States should be treated from the point of view of the Commonwealth as being equal. And a similar point arises with regard to the objects in respect of which the Commonwealth may assist the States. I should like the Leader of the Senate to consider this point. Section 91 of the Constitution deals with assistance to the gold-mining industry. Under section 90, the Commonwealth has exclusive power to grant bounties on the production or export of goods. I am aware, of course, that under section 96 of the Constitution, financial assistance may also bc given to the States. But, under section 91, a State, with the consent of the Commonwealth Parliament, may grant " any aid to or bounty " on the production or export of goods, and further, may grant " any aid to or bounty on mining . for gold, silver or other metals." In other words, the Constitution deliberately faces only the possibility that the States may desire to make grants for the mining of gold and other metals. I do not say that under section 96 it is impossible for the Commonwealth to grant assistance for mining purposes. It may and is doing so by using the words, "' financial assistance." It appears to me from ray reading of the Constitution Act - and I recommend honorable senators to study it occasionally for their information, as one is apt to forget, its provisions - that it is specifically provided that, a State may provide bounty or other aid for mining, but nothing whatever is said as to the Commonwealth providing aid for that purpose. It may be urged that this has no direct bearing on this bill. That is not so, because a relatively small amount is actually provided in this bill for assistance to mining. For my own satisfaction, I should like -the Leader of the Senate to clarify the position and to lel me know if there is any other section of the Constitution Art under which this assistance can be granted, or whether the Parliament has to get back to the "financial assistance" provided for under section 96. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [8.40]. -  in reply  -  Senator Barnes  has asked whether, in the expenditure of this money, conditions have been imposed on the States in respeot to the payment of award rates of wages. No such condition has been attached to the granting of this money to the States. The Commonwealth believes that each State Government  is  in a position to determine its own conditions;  it is  responsible  to  its electors, to whom it must answer for its actions. So far as Commonwealth expenditure is concerned, however,  the  Commonwealth will pay full award rates and offer full-time employment in the carrying out of Commonwealth works. 
I do not think  Senator Brown  will expect me to traverse his remarks. I could not help thinking when the honorable senator was speaking that he had in mind the fact that a general election will shortly take place in Queensland. The honorable senator covered a wide range of subjects, and, having listened to him. I am inclined to agree with  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  -that whilst capitalism may be declining in some countries,  it  is definitely growing in Russia. In that country it has become necessary to readopt some capitalistic ideas in regard  to  the payment of different rates of wages for different classes of work. 
In regard to the points raised  by  Senator Dune  an -Hughes, preliminary action was taken at a conference between Commonwealth and State representatives, at which the States were asked  to  put forward suggestions as to the amount of money which they thought they could usefully spend. The amounts provided in this bill, with, I think, the exception of those provided for Western Australia and Tasmania, are those asked for by the States as being the sums which they could usefully spend in addition to those which they were already spending. The grants to the States other than South Australia and Tasmania were qualified by a condition that they should provide a similar amount. As to the question  of  equality of treatment, I suggest that a definition of the word " equality " is  required.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  himself in the course of his remarks showed  that  per capita  payments, in one sense, mean true equality, and, mother respects, may prove to be most unequal. For instance, it is obviously more costly to administer a State like Western Australia, with its vast area, than it is to administer a smaller State like Victoria. The stage of development reached by a State must also be considered. Obviously, a well-developed State does not need the assistance required by one that is not so fully developed, and if the Commonwealth makes the same grant to each, the grant cannot be said to have been made on the basis of equality. Everything hinges on- the -interpretation of the word "equality". What the Commonwealth has tried to do has been to take into consideration all of these factors, including the financial resources of the States, and I think it has meted out even-handed justice. In allotting the money granted for roads, for instance, consideration is given not merely to population, but to area, and, surely, in making roads, area is the most important factor to consider. A large State must have a proportionately greater mileage of roads to construct if its population is thinly spread over the larger area. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Queensland gets its grant on the basis of population and area; but the honorable senator is now referring to forestry work, and I am speaking of roads. The forestry vote was distributed after consultation with the States, and after taking into consideration the work which they themselves were doing, and the sums which their experts reported could be usefully expended. 
Although I agree with  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that the section of the Constitution which he has quoted seems to provide that the expenditure of this money is a direct responsibility of the States, the Commonwealth Parliament, under section 96, is entitled to give financial assistance to the States, and, in providing that assistance, it is not confined -to giving it for expenditure on matters which may be regarded as Commonwealth responsibilities. The Commonwealth Parliament, throughout its history, in making grants to the States, has had regard to their financial difficulties, and their stage of development in coping with particular problems. I remind honorable senators, for instance, that there have been times when the Commonwealth has made grants to the States to enable them to deal with health matters. Take, for instance, venereal disease. Although it was primarily a duty of the States to deal with all health matters, federal functions being restricted to quarantine work, yet the interests of the Commonwealth as a whole are served by raising the standard of health of the community, and assisting the States in combating a particular disease. Take also the form of tuberculosis to which miners are subjected. In some States very little mining is carried on, and this disease is not much in evidence there; but, in other States, where a great deal of mining is done, and particularly where dust is prevalent, miners phthisis is much more prevalent than in other States. The Commonwealth authorities have provided laboratories for the purpose of helping to combat this disease, and I contend that this is a legitimate use of the powers of the Commonwealth under section 96, although the money granted may not be used for a purely federal function. It may be employed for a purely State function, but the object is to raise the standard of health throughout Australia. 
A suggestion was made by  Senator Barnes  that in making these grants to the States for the relief of unemployment we should insist upon the observance of award rate3 and conditions of labour. I consider that it would be very improper of this Parliament, in making a grant to the States for the provision of employment, to lay down the conditions which should be observed by the States in the giving of employment. That, in my opinion, would be an improper use of the Commonwealth financial power in granting financial assistance. It is for the Commonwealth to lay down its own conditions, and to leave the States to decide the way in which the money shall be spent in providing employment. So long as that is done we shall safeguard the rights of the States, and, at the same time, give them useful assistance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure has very little to do with either dried fruits or export control. If has been introduced for the purpose of ensuring to any permanent officer of the Public Service, who has 'been seconded for appointment as secretary to the Dried Fruits Control Board, the preservation of his existing and accruing rights as a public servant during his period of service with the board. These rights are defined in section 6 of the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928-1933, which provides that an officer who has been employed under some authority of the Commonwealth shall, when his employment in his unattached capacity is completed, be entitled to appointment to an office in the Public Service of such status and at such salary as may be determined by the Public Service Board. The Dried Fruits Control Board was constituted in 1924. It is a statutory body, and the position of secretary has always been held by an officer of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Public Service Commissioners, in looking into the matter recently, drew attention to the fact that the act, as originally framed, seemed to call for the engagement as secretary of somebody outside the Service; but it has been found that, when organizations of this kind are being set up, it is often essential that the conflicting interests which rush for the highest administrative positions should be put on one side in favour of an impartial public servant. That is why an officer of the Public Service was appointed to this position when the Dried Fruits Control Board was created some years ago. In order to set at rest doubts which have been raised, this very short measure of practically one operative clause is now . presented to the Senate, it having been already passed by the other branch of the legislature. The bill meets the wishes of the Public Service Board, and makes certain that any rights which this or any other public servant occupying such a position may have shall be preserved. It is not of a contentious nature, and I ask for its speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure has two purposes: First, to amend the Canned Fruits Export Control Act by the inclusion of canned fruit salad within the definitions of canned fruits already contained in the act; and, secondly, to preserve the rights of any officer appointed from the Commonwealth Public Service as secretary to the board. 
The Canned Fruits Control Board now exercises control over the export of canned apricots, peaches, pears and pineapples, and one feature of this control is the fixing, each season, of the minimum prices at which these fruits may be sold in the principal markets overseas. At present, however, the board does not exercise any control over what is known in the trade as canned fruit salad, which is a standardized pack consisting of not less than 75 per centum of fruit contents by weight of the kinds of fruit already  prescribed under the act, namely, canned apricots, peaches, pears  and  pineapples. This pack is becoming increasingly popular in the British market, and imports from  the  United States of America alone amount to approximately 600,000 cases per annum. Exports from Australia have, so far. been largely of an experi-mental nature; but the board is convinced, as a result of these experimental shipments, that the British demand for the Australian product will increase rapidly. Fruit salad is canned by the main proprietary, co-operative, and State-controlled canneries engaged in the export trade, and the industry generally supports the representations which have been made to the Commonwealth Government by the Canned Fruits Control Board that the provisions of the act should be applied to this class of commodity. 
The proposed amendment is necessary in order to give effect to these representations. The provisions of clause  3  relating to the preservation of the rights of a Commonwealth officer appointed as secretary to the Canned Fruits Control Board arc" identical with those contained in the Dried Fruits Amending Bill, which has already been considered. The position of secretary to the Canned Fruits Control Board has been filled by an officer of the Commonwealth Public Service since 1926, and the circumstances which led to the drafting of clause  3  are the same as those referred to by  me  during the second reading of the Dried Fruits Export Control Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee  : 
Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Definition). 
 I wish briefly to make a suggestion I have made on previous occasions, and which, if adopted, would be a great convenience to the general public and to the members of  this  Parliament. When amending bills  Such  as this are being drafted the whole definition should be restated so that one  Could  see exactly what the definitions cover. On looking at the foot  of  the bill honorable senators will see that there are four previous acts, and this bill makes the fifth measure dealing with the same subject. With the exception of the principal act, which is a moderately lengthy one, the others are all brief amendments, yet in order to ascertain the definition of " canned fruits " five acts have to be perused and it has to be extracted from three acts; and to get the definition of " cannery " two acts have to be consulted. I do not think that it would give the slightest difficulty to the draftsman to re-state the definition of " canned fruits " and " cannery " in amending acts. Any one purchasing the last amending measure could see the latest definitions. That would prevent one being, put to the trouble, and in some cases the impossibility at short notice, of searching successfully five separate short acts to ascertain the definition of these two words. I see no objection to, but a great deal of convenience, in the adoption of this suggestion. The only argument against it is that if producers and others concerned have to peruse all the acts the Government may sell more copies. There is also the advantage to the lawyer of being better able to piece these various measures together. I am sure that the Minister will realize the advantages of having the definitions restated so that he who runs may read. 
.-*-I sympathize to some extent with what  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has said. I believe that when we were associated in another capacity this matter was discussed by us and that some representations were actually made to the Attorney-General at the time on the subject. This is not a bad example of the difficulty of which the honorable senator complains. We are now dealing with the definition of " canned fruits ", and I have already explained that it is considered desirable to extend that definition. Whatever the present definition may be, this bill, at any rate, provides that it shall be extended to include " canned fruit salad ". In one case a phrase is added and in another a word in inverted commas. The only effect of this amending provision is to add one more commodity to the present definitions. In any future drafting or the overseeing of any measures with which I am concerned I shall bear the honorable senator's suggestion in mind. I know that it is extremely awkward to search preceding acts to ascertain the exact meaning of any amending provision which may be under consideration. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I support the remarks of  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  It seems to me wrong to ask honorable senators to agree to any validating provision without first giving them an opportunity to peruse closely all the regulations made under it. Unless this opportunity is given to us, how can we intelligently agree to this validating provision? Some of the regulations made under it may  b°-  of such a character as to impel us to withhold our endorsement. I agree with  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that there is an element of danger in passing a clause of this nature without, having first had an opportunity to ascertain the extent of - its application. I should like to see the further consideration of the bill postponed, so that those who are interested in the matter may peruse the regulations made under the act. 
 I submit that there is no justification for the somewhat drastic course which  Senator Payne  has suggested, and I feel that I can allay also the scruples of my colleague,  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  I repeat what I said with regard to the two classes of licence. From the terms of the act there is no doubt that Parliament intended that two classes of licences should issue - one to owners entitling them to do certain things subject to certain restrictions, and the other to carriers enabling them to carry goods interstate under certain conditions. "It- is true that at the end of seven years some person, unknown, having studied the act, evidently came to the conclusion that it was, to say the least, doubtful whether it makes adequate provision to compel carriers to be licensed. I have looked at the original act and I do not think there is any doubt on the point. However, it is better to be on the safe side. Accordingly, it was decided to amend the act so as to put beyond all doubt the fact that two kinds of licences are required, one for owners, and one for carriers. This bill makes that provision. It also makes clear what was thought to be not quite clear, namely, that carriers are bound to take out licences. If the provision in the act was had, then a regulation which depended upon the fact that carriers' licences had been provided for would also be bad. It is now sought to put the matter beyond all doubt, and also to provide that any regulation passed under it shall also be good in law. I agree with everything that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has said in general terms against the passing of retrospective legislation. But this is a type of retrospective legislation which cannot injure anybody. It merely makes clear what everybody thought for seven years was already made clear in the act. If it rendered liable anybody who was not liable before the passing of this measure, it would be open to the criticism which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has levelled against i't. But it does no such thing. It merely makes clear something about which there appeared to have been some doubt. This being so, I do not think it is open to criticism. 

 Senator DUNCAN-HUGHES  (South 
Australia) [9.25].  -  The Minister  (Senator Brennan)  has put his view of the clause very nicely. However, it still appears 'to me that if the clause is to be of any effect at all, it will make possible the taking away from some person of a right which he at present possesses. Otherwise, I can see no object in it. Although the Minister assures us that no one has had this right in the past, the very fact that this clause is inserted in the bill suggests that its unintentional effect may be to take away some such right. The case would be well met, it seems to me, by providing that any regulation made heretofore under these acts shall be deemed to be valid and effectual from this date onwards. But to go back and say that any such regulation "shall be deemed at all times to be, and at all times to have been as valid and effectual for all purposes as if this act had been in force on and after the date when the regulation was made ", is beyond my comprehension, unless by so doing the intention is to take away a possible right enjoyed by some person. If no one has had any right in the past, there is no need to provide that that right shall be" taken away from him. It would be sufficient to say that for the future this regulation shall be valid. So with all respect to  Senator Brennan  I still maintain that this clause may have .the effect of depriving some one of his rights in the past, and for that reason I am. opposed to it. 
.- I challenge the right of the Government to pass this legislation, and in support of my contention I remind honorable senators of the decision of the High Court in a recent case dealing with potatoes. It seems to me that in passing this legislation we are impinging on the provisions of section 92 of the Constitution, and it is a moot point whether its validity could not be challenged. I should like to* know if there is any provision in the bill' to compel State railway authorities and" shipping companies to take out licences for the carriage of butter interstate. It appears to me that the Government might have some difficulty with regard to thi® phase of its legislation. Whatever maybe said as to the merits of the bill, I  ami  opposed to the Dairy Produce Bill which legislates along similar lines. It is not fair that the producers in any State - and I speak particularly for the producers in Tasmania - should be forced to&gt; carry on under existing conditions. I support the remarks of  Senator DuncanHughes  with regard to the validation of regulations for seven years. Assuming: that some person took the view that hewas not. obliged to take out a licence,, would this act make him liable? 
It would be a hardship for him to have to pay a penalty of £100 for something which he did fiveyears -ago believing that he had acted in accordance with the law of the land. Theposition was not set out clearly in the act, and a person would be justified in&gt; saying that it was not intended because the law had been altered in the meantime to make it clear. I support thecontention of  .Senator Duncan-Hughes. 
 I am sorry that  Senator Grant  has taken up the cudgels with Senators DuncanHughesand Payne. I assure the Senatethat the only right of which any one has been deprived is the right to take action to try to upset things on a very flimsyground. 
The act has been administered in the belief that carriers have been required under it to take out licences. It is true that the provision was awkwardly framed, and there was a doubt about carriers being compelled to take out licences. Honorable senators can be assured, however, that this bill has not been introduced to penalize those engaged la carrying, noi- have they claimed that they are not bound to take out licences. No person has raised that point, and this legislation is not aimed at any person or body of persons in particular. 
As to the constitutional aspect of the question, which was raised by  Senator Grant  I agree that the whole of this class of legislation, which is based on section 51 (i) of the Constitution, and also on a judgment of the High Court, which says that section 92 of the Constitution is not addressed to the Commonwealth, and is not binding on the Commonwealth, is on a very shaky foundation. Some day the Privy Council may say that it is addressed to the Commonwealth. In that event, all this class of legislation would fail. In the meantime, we must take the law as it is. The High Court has interpreted the law to mean that section 92 is not binding on the Commonwealth, although it is binding on the States, and this legislation is based on that interpretation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill he now read a second time. 
This bill is designed to cover, in respect of dairy produce, exactly those things that are covered in the Dried Fruits Bill, with which the Senate has just dealt. As  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has just pointed out, however, its retrospective provisions do not stretch so far back into the past, because in this case the original act was not passed until 1933. During the period from January, 1926, to May, 1934, a voluntary scheme, 'known as the Paterson plan, which was in operation in the dairying industry, had the effect of stabilizing the price of butter in Australia. The scheme, however, was not sufficiently binding to ensure the full support of the manufacturers of butter, and consequently the Dairy Produce Act was passed towards the end of 1933. This enactment was supplementary to legislation passed at the same time by the Parliaments of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania. The powers given in the federal act were similar to those in the Dried Fruits Act, and were designed to regulate the interstate trade in dairy produce, while the State acts provided for the regulation of the trade within the respective States. In practice, the authority set up by each State act fixes the proportion of that State's production of 'butter and cheese which may be sold on the local market, and the federal act, in effect, protects that allocation by regulating the movement of such produce from one State to another, and ensuring that the surplus production of butter and cheese is removed from the Australian market. The Dairy Produce Act was brought into operation by proclamation issued on the 2nd May, 1934, and provision was made under it for the taking of a poll of producers throughout the Commonwealth within six months from that date to decide whether or not the act should continue to operate. The poll  resulted in an overwhelming majority of votes being recorded in favour of continuance, the figures being 50,747 in favour and 1,416 against. Regulations issued under the Dairy Produce Act provide for the granting by prescribed authorities in the various States of both "owners' " and "carriers' " licences on a basis somewhat similar to that on which licences are issued in respect of dried fruits. There is, therefore, no need for me to repeat the reasons which led to the preparation of this bill, in view of the similarity of the provisions of the two acts, and the details already given by me in moving the second reading of the Dried Fruits Bill. 
At an earlier stage of to-night's  proceedings  the Leader of the  Government  (Senator Pearce)  interjected when I  was  speaking that the carriers knew for some years the intention of Parliament with respect to licences. I should like to know whether the State railways, or the shipping companies trading between Tasmania and the mainland, have taken out licences. 
My information is to the contrary, although I, too, cannot say so definitely. I understand that neither the shipping companies nor the State railways have taken out licences, and probably this legislation has been suggested in order to require them to do so. The remarks which I have directed against the bill with which we have just dealt apply also to this measure. I object, to the validating clauses, and also to any restriction being placed on trade between the  States. 
 As I said just now by way of interjection, I am not certain whether the State railways or the shipping companies have taken out licences, but I can assure  Senator Grant  that this amending legislation is not aimed at those bodies, or, indeed, at any individual, company, or corporation. The amendment originated in the AttorneyGeneral's Department, not with those who are charged with the- administration of the act. Nor did it arise  from any  doubt regarding the necessity for carriers taking out licences. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
 I move - 
That after clause 1 the following new clause he inserted: - " 1 a. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from the definition of dairy produce' the words * but does not include processed cheese'; and 
) by omitting "the definition of ' processed cheese '." 
The explanation is a little complicated. In the original act the definition clause defines " dairy produce " to mean butter and cheese, but not processed cheese, while " processed cheese " means any cheese manufactured and sold in the Commonwealth which has been subjected to any further prescribed process of manufacture. The necessity for this amendment was brought under the notice of the Government after the bill had passed through the House of Representatives. The effect of the proposal to amend the act by deleting from it all reference to processed cheese, is that the transfer of this class of commodity from one State to another will be permitted only under licence. When the principal act was passed in 1933, all processed cheese was, so far as was known, made from cheddar cheese purchased at the ruling Australian price, which cheese consisted of the whole or portion of the quota which the manufacturer was entitled to sell on the Australian market. In these circumstances it appeared to be justified that processed cheese should be exempted from the provisions of the act, because it was not intended that the processed article made from homeconsumption cheddar cheese should be subjected to a further export quota. 
Since then, however, at least two of the largest makers of processed cheese have decided to manufacture their own cheddar cheese, and under the act as it now stands, these processors are permitted to market within Australia the. whole of their production of cheddar cheese in the form of processed cheese. This gives the processors a distinct advantage over those who are engaged solely in the manufacture of cheddar cheese and are required to export a substantial percentage of their output. The present export percentage is 39 per cent. 
It is possible that the practice will rapidly extend if the exemption for processed cheese is allowed to continue, with the result that an increasing percentage of cheddar cheese will be automatically displaced from the Australian market, throwing the onus of additional export on those who manufacture cheddar cheese only. Honorable senators will agree that this is an anomaly which should be rectified without delay. 
In  the  case of those processors who still purchase their requirements of homeconsumption cheddar cheese from other manufacturers, an exemption from the export-quota provision of the interstate licence will he provided for in the regulations. 
The proposal to bring processed cheese within the provision of the act is strongly recommended by the State dairy products boards, which act as prescribed authorities for the Commonwealth in connexion with the issue of licences for the interstate transfer of butter and cheese. At the same time the proposal will bring the federal act into line with the State Dairy Products Acts which do not provide for any exemption in respect of processed cheese, except in the case where the cheese is processed from home consumption cheddar cheese. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Glauses 2 and 3 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What was the cost of construction of the Commonwealth Bank premises in each of the following cities: - Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart? 
The question has been referred to the Commonwealth Bank, and a reply will be furnished as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What is the position with regard to the preparation of. the site of the proposed aerodrome in the vicinity of Cambridge, Tasmania? 
Are his expert officers quite satisfied as to the suitability of the terrain? 
If so, when does the department anticipate that the aerodrome will be open for traffic? 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answer :  - 
The information will be obtained, and a reply furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister in a position to say when the radio station at Kelso, Tasmania, will commence broadcasting? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Postmaster General has supplied the following answer: 
No; it is not yet possible to say when broadcasting will 'commence, but the work of installation and testing is proceeding satisfactorily. 
[11.12].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
It is probably within the recollection of honorable senators that, in June last, the Government decided that it would ask Parliament to repeal those provisions in the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act which required certain specified relatives to contribute towards the cost of pension, if they were in a position to do so. At the same time instructions were issued that all action under those provisions should be suspended, and such action would subsequently be validated by Parliament. Legislation to give effect to the Government's decision was introduced in another place in July, 1934, but, owing to the pressure of more important business, it was not possible to pass the measure before Parliament adjourned in December last. The earliest opportunity has been taken to re-submit the matter to Parliament, and., at the risk of repetition, it would perhaps be advisable, to recount the circumstances that led to the inclusion of this requirement in the law, and the reasons that prompted the Government's decision to repeal the provision. 
The right honorable the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  in his speech on the Financial Emergency Bill, of 1932, pointed out that it was common knowledge that there were cases where relatives of pensioners who have a moral obligation at least to contribute towards the maintenance of the pensioners, and who were in a position to do so, were content to allow the cost of such maintenance to fall on the State. In the endeavour to correct this position, it was not at any time intended to place a burden on those relatives who might be described as being in ordinary circumstances, or who were already called upon to meet special responsibilities. The amendment of the law in 1932 was designed to relieve the Commonwealth, revenue of at least a portion of the burden of the pension in cases where it was equitable that the relatives of pensioners who were in more affluent circumstances should bear at least a portion of the cost of the pensioners' maintenance. In determining, therefore, whether the relative was in a position to contribute towards the cost of a pension liberal deductions from income were made. In the case of a married relative an exemption of £312 per annum was made for husband and wife, and a further allowance of £50 for each child. An allowance of £208 per annum was made in respect of a single or widowed relative. In addition, special exemptions, such as the cost of the education of children, assistance to relatives out of employment, medical expenses, interest and repayment of mortgage, were taken into account. 
In administering this legislation pressure of work occasioned by other amendments of the law rendered it necessary at the inception to confine attention to pensions granted after , the 12th October, 1932. In March, 1934, however, the provisions of the act were applied to pensions which were already in force at the 12th October, 1932. The operation of this provision was at all times closely watched by the Government. Experience showed that, owing to the liberal exemptions allowed, only a small percentage of relatives were in a position to contribute towards the cost of pensions. The investigation of the circumstances of relatives of pensioners resulted in contributions being obtained of an annual value of £6,698, the amount actually received up to the 21st June, 1934 - the date on which the operation of the section was suspended - being £2,4S6. It was clear that the reduction of pensions expenditure due to this provision was not sufficient to compensate for the difficulty and cost of administration, and it was that fact that prompted the Government to repeal the law. 
The Government has taken the opportunity afforded by the recess to review the whole of the Invalid and Oldage Pensions law, and it particularly examined the effect of what are popularly, or perhaps,  unpopularly  known as " the property provisions " which were incorporated in it by the Financial Emergency Act 1932. Briefly, these provisions made the pension paid after the 12th October, 1932, a debt due to the Commonwealth. At the death of a pensioner the debt became a charge on his estate in priority to all other debts, excepting certain specified encumbrances. All pensioners and claimants were required to furnish the " white card " undertaking that they would not transfer or mortgage their real property without the consent of the Commissioner of Pensions. When these property provisions were introduced it was not thought that the main benefit to the  budget would arise from the amount received from the estates of deceased pensioners or the amounts, contributed by relatives. It was known that there were pensioners and claimants who, although eligible for a pension, were not actually in need of it, and it was thought that the provisions would act as a deterrent, both to pensioners and claimants. That this belief was well founded is demonstrated by the fact that before the " white card " undertaking was repealed the voluntary surrenders of pensions were in excess of 12,000 and the claims for pensions had diminished by 13,000. A comparison of the increase in the pensions roll in the last few years is also illuminating. In 1929-30 the number of pensioners increased by 141,000, in 1930-31 by 22,000, and in 1931-32 by 15,000. In 1932-33, the first year in which the property provisions operated, the number of pensioners decreased by 6,400. That is the only year since the establishment of the system of invalid and old-age pensions in 1909 in which the number of pensioners has not increased. Section 52e of the act, which contained the chief property provision, was amended in December, 1933. The amount of pension paid after the 31st December, 1932, continued as a debt due to the Commonwealth, recoverable out of the estate of the deceased pensioner; but the debt was not made a charge on the property of a pensioner, as previously. The Commonwealth debt was given no priority over the other debts, and liabilities of the pensioner, and liberal exemptions were provided. The " white card " undertaking became unnecessary, and the pensioners were free to deal in their real property as they wished. The only obligation placed on the pensioner was to advise the department of any transfer or mortgage of real property. That the " white card " undertaking was a deterrent was again amply demonstrated. Whereas the pension roll contracted when the obligation to furnish the undertaking was imposed, it swelled again when that obligation was removed. Although the law was not actually amended until December, 1933, the intentions of the Government were known, or at least, guessed, in the previous October, and there was an immediate increase of the number of pensions. During the four months ended the 31st October, 1933, the number of pensioners "increased by 603; in the following four months the increase was 4,375, and for the four months ended the 30th June, 1934, the increase was 6,534. Thus, the increase in the pensions roll for the year 1933-34 was 11,512, compared with a decrease  of  6,442 in the previous year, a difference of 17,954, involving an additional annual charge of about £750,000 on the budget.When the then Attorney-General, the Right Honorable J. G. Latham, introduced the amending bill in 1933 he stated that the legislation would almost certainly lead to a considerable increase  of  the pensions expenditure. It will be seen that  Mr. Latham  was guilty of no flight  of  imagination, when, on being pressed, he stated that at least £650,000 a year was involved. 
It having been abundantly proved that the deterrent effect of the Financial Emergency Act 1932 had disappeared with the subsequent amendments of the law, the only benefit to be derived from the remaining provisions consisted of the amount which could be recovered from the estates of deceased pensioners. The position was then carefully examined from that angle. Statistics have been collated, covering 177,000 pensioners, and it is found that approximately 70 per cent, of the pensioners, most of whom are drawing the maximum pension, naveno estate from which the debt due to the Commonwealth can be recovered. The circumstances of the remaining 30 per cent, are as follows: - 

<graphic href="146332193503296_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen from these figures that the field from which the amount  of  pension paid can be recovered is very limited. This narrow field is still further reduced by the priority given to the other debts and liabilities of the pensioners,  and by the liberal exemptions allowed by the law. The following property is exempt from the provisions of the act: - 
Personal effects up to £50 in value. 
Property which passes under the will of the pensioner to a relative, who is a pensioner or is in necessitous circumstances, or was residing as a member of the family in a home owned by a pensioner. 
Friendly society benefits to the extent to which they exceed the funeral expenses. 
As these benefits are not included in the value of the pensioner's property, just quoted, and as funeral expenses, in common with other liabilities of the pensioner's estate, have priority over the Commonwealth debt, they do not enter into the present considerations. In addition to these specific exemptions, power is given to the Commissioner to exempt, either wholly or in part, any property which, on the death of the pensioner, passes to a person . who would suffer undue hardship if the application of the provisions of the law were applied to that property. 
In the earlier stages of the administration of the property provisions comparatively little difficulty was experienced in collecting the debt due to the Commonwealth. The position- has now entirely changed with the growth of the debt. Where, two years ago, or even one year ago, the payment of the debt would not have caused undue hardship to the beneficiaries, the applications for relief on those grounds are now becoming more insistent. It is in these circumstances that the Government has decided to repeal section 52e of the act, and provision has been made accordingly in the hill. 
I have now dealt with the repeal of section 52m, which deals with contributions from the relatives of a pensioner towards the cost of the pension, and with section 52e, which makes the amount of pension paid after the 31st December, 1932, a debt due to the Commonwealth recoverable from the estate of the deceased pensioner. It will also be necessary to repeal the other sections introduced into the act in 1932, and which are really complementary to section 52e. These are - 
Sections17fa, which deals with oldage pensions, and 22ga, in relation to invalid pensions, which provide that if a claimant has, within a period of five years, transferred, otherwise . than bona fide for value, property in excess of £100 in value, he shall not be eligible for a pension. These cases will be dealt with in the future under the original sections 17f and  22g  respectively. If a claimant has transferred property otherwise than bona fide for value, he will not be disentitled to a pension, but he will be placed in exactly the same position as if he had not so transferred his property. The value of the property will be maintained against him and the rate of pension assessed accordingly. 
Section 52a, which requires pensioners and claimants to furnish particulars of real property owned by them, and relating to their relatives, being husband, wife, father, mother or children. 
Section 52c, which provides that where a pensioner becomes the owner of property exceeding £400 in value - or £800 where both husband and wife are pensioners - he shall repay the amount of pension paid since the 31st December, 1932, to the extent by which the value of the property exceeds £400, or £800 in the case of husband and wife who are both pensioners. 
Section 52d, which requires pensioners who transfer or mortgage land to give notice of the transaction to the department. 
Section 52f, which provides that contributions made by relatives under section 52 m shall be deducted from the amount recoverable by the Commonwealth under section 52c. 
It will also be necessary to amend section 52k. This section provides that where a pensioner's home is destroyed by fire, the Commissioner may consent to the insurance money being used for the purpose of building another home, and thereupon section 52c shall not apply, nor  shall the rate of pension be reduced by reason of the receipt or ownership of those moneys. This provision is a concession to the pensioners and should be retained. It will be necessary, however, to omit the reference to section  52c. 
Of the amendments made in  1932  there are only two other sections which will remain, namely: - 
Section  52b,  which requires a pensioner to advise the department whenever he acquires property or receives income which affects the amount of pension payable to him. Section  52ga,  which empowers the Commonwealth toaccept a transfer from a pensioner or a claimant of any unencumbered property or of any interest under a will. The value of any such property or interest shall not be taken into account in determining the amount of pension. Section  52gb,  which provides machinery for giving effect to section  52ga. 
 It is provided in the bill that all debts due to the Commonwealth under any of the sections to be repealed, and unpaid at the date of the commencement of the amending act shall cease to exist. Beyond this, the Government is not prepared to make the repeal retrospective, or by any other means to refund any amount already paid to the Commonwealth under the provisions of sections  52c  or  52e  of the act. 
I have no desire to delay the passage of this measure by asking for the adjournment of the debate, because, like 'all other honorable senators, I am glad that the Government has at last made up its mind to repeal the obnoxious provisions of the amending legislation which was introduced in  1932.  At that time we on this side predicted that the net result to the Treasury would be slight indeed. The speech by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to-day shows clearly that that prediction has been fulfilled. Perhaps the most irritating provision of the legislation now about to be repealed was that which required the relatives of pensioners to subscribe to their support. The Opposition pointed out at the time that even if a man were in practically continuous employment, and appeared to be in fairly comfortable circumstances, it might not be possible for him to make any contribution to the upkeep of an aged relative. Owing to the depression many relatives who formerly were in a position to contribute to the support of pensioners now find themselves unable to do so, and in some cases their plight is as bad 'as that of the unemployed. I am sorry that the Government has not thought fit to go a step further and make refunds to pensioners who have had a portion or the whole of their pensions stopped as the result  of  the operation of these sections of the act. The Leader of  the  Government has told us that  the  amounts collected under the provisions which it is now proposed to repeal have been very small and have had no effect upon the budgetary position of the Commonwealth. Perhaps it is for this reason that the Government now desires to appear magnanimous. 
 Honorable senators on this side are pleased that the Government has at last recognized the justice of the protests of the Labour movement against the iniquity of certain sections of the pensions act. At the time these provisions were inserted in the act honorable senators on this side classed them as politically damnable, morally indefensible and socially cruel. That our criticism was justified has been made manifest.We have been 'closely in touch with pensioners and have seen how severely they suffered as a result of the operation of these . iniquitous sections. The Leader of the Government has spoken of the number of people who have surrendered pensions to which they were not entitled because their relatives were well off, and able to maintain them ; but I remind the right honorable senator that included in the number are hundreds who were induced to take this action because of a fear that under the amended property provisions their properties might be confiscated after their death. Many pensioners have approached me asking whether in the circumstances they should give up their pension and whether, in the event of a change of government, their properties would be safeguarded. In all cases they were advised to cling to their  pensions, but, despite that advice, large numbers of them surrendered them sooner than take the risk of having their properties confiscated. The bill now before the Senate clearly shows that we were right in our attack on the Government of the day when these sections were first inserted in the 'act. The Leader of the  Government  has told us that under them only a few paltry pounds were collected from the relatives of pensioners, and it is possible that this may be one of the reasons for their repeal. At the time this iniquitous legislation was placed upon the statute book the Government claimed that it was necessary because of the unfortunate position of the finances of the country. I well remember hearing  Senator Sir Massy-Greene  paint a verydoleful picture of what would happen to Australia if the drift in our financial position were not checked. Yet honorable senators apposite must have known then that the financial position did not warrant such action against the oldage .pensioners of this country, because a few months 'after these sections were incorporated in the act, the Government produced a surplus. At last tardy justice is to be done to the pensioners, and we on this side flatter ourselves that the Government has been influenced by the just criticism of Labour senators. This bill, however, does not remove all the disabilities which old-age pensioners suffer and honorable senators on this side will continue in the future as in the past to bring their grievances before the Senate. 
I desire to bring under the notice of the Senate the case of an old-age pensioner, a resident of Maryborough, Queensland, who has tried time and again to get a pension, but has been refused it on the ground that he sold to his son for £400 a property which the  Deputy  Commissioner considers should have brought more. Today that man is destitute. The proceeds of the sale of the property have been expended partly in the purchase of a house and partly in medical expenses owing to the sickness of the applicant and his wife. From what I have gleaned from the remarks of the Leader of the Senate, it seems that there is some hope that this man, who has suffered great injustice in the past will, in future, be able to draw at least a part pension. 
I am sure that no honorable senators would in any way condone the offence of drunkenness. We all agree that men are fools who, as Shakespeare has it, "put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains." It is unfortunately true that some pensioners do take too much drink; but we must remember that an old man becomes intoxicated after having consumed a very small quantity of liquor compared with what he may have been able to take in his youth. If a. pensioner is so  unfortunate  as to be convicted of drunkenness his pension is stopped for periods up to twelve months. But why is this applied only to old-age pensioners? We have many State pensioners who are drawing pensions up to £1,000 per annum. No question is raised as to whether or not they spend their money on champagne and get drunk; but should an old age pensioner overstep the mark the  Deputy  Commissioner penalizes him in some cases to the extent of one year's pension, amounting to over £40. Take the case of two men convicted for drunkenness; one man is 65 years of age and is not a pensioner and the other a pensioner 65 years 'of age. In each case the man is taken before the magistrate and fined £1. But the pensioner in addition to being fined £1 may also be fined by the  Deputy  Commissioner a sum equivalent to one year's pension. lt is grossly unfair that such an extreme penalty should lie imposed upon those unfortunate individuals who, through lack of self control, allow themselves to be overcome by the effect of spirituous liquors. 
Another case is that of a man whose pension after being stopped was only partially restored to him. He wrote to the Pensions Department inquiring why only a partial pension was paid, and saying that he had been sufficiently penalized by the complete loss of the pension for a number of months. The Deputy Commissioner replied that, in his opinion, 12s. 6d. a week was sufficient for his maintenance. Thus, in addition to the loss of the pension for several months, a further penalty was imposed upon this man. Here in this chamber  we have the spectacle of  Senator Rae  again sitting amongst us after having been suspended from the sitting of the Senate for an offence committed yesterday. He has paid the penalty, and atoned for his offence, and is now free to take part in the delates in this Senate. That is quite right. When a man has offended, and has paid the penalty, that should be an end to the matter. But, so far as the old-age pensioner is concerned, lie may be brought to court on a charge of drunkenness and, after having paid the usual fine for what, after all, is a petty offence, he is mulcted by the  Deputy  Commissioner in a fine forty times as great as that imposed by the court. 
The point I am making is that  Senator Rae  was suspended yesterday, has paid his penalty, and to-day is again sitting amongst us. He has not been kept waiting on the doorstep. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The honorable senator is not in order in reflecting upon or referring to a previous vote of the Senate. 
I thought I should be in order,  Mr. President,  in citing the case of a senator who had been ejected from this chamber. I suppose it would be in order for me to cite a case of the kind which took place some years ago. 
The past is dead. 

 Senator BAE  (New South Wales)  "1.1. 46]. -  prise to bring under the notice of the Senate the economic aspect of the double penalty inflicted upon pensioners convicted of drunkenness. We have heard a good deal about the severity of the punishment of suspending the pension for, perhaps, twelve months; but I point out that, owing to our excise laws, pensioners who occasionally lapse into intemperate habits contribute a considerable sum to the revenues of this country. Consequently, no matter how much  we  may deplore lapses of this kind, these pensioners pay back into the revenue a good deal more than do ordinary individuals. Personally, I do not take strong drink, and I do not excuse drunkenness. 
 I desire to do nothing to encourage the drinking habit. But, once an old-age pensioner has fallen into intemperate habits, he is not from an  economic point of view so great a charge upon the State as is the average pensioner. When an ordinary member of the community is fined for drunkenness, he is not in danger, like the old-age. pensioner, of losing his income on which he relies for his bare existence. The suspension of the pension means an enormous penalty tothese old people. 
I have known cases in which persons have been deprived of the pension for twelve months. 
Of course, increased penalties are imposed for additional offences, and that seems to be unjust. If a man gets drunk and is fined £1, he is supposed to have wiped out the offence; but, if he again lapses into intemperance, why should he be fined £2 on the second occasion? It is next to murder, in some cases, to deprive these elderly folk of their pensions because of occasional lapses. . 
Steps should be taken to provide another method of dealing  with those who repeatedly lapse into intemperance. 
I admit that; but if a man is proved to be destitute of selfcontrol, provision should be made by which the money could be handed over to some person who would act as his trustee. I am glad that the alterations of the law to be made under this bill have been proposed. Some day, perhaps, it will be recognized that the pension should be given irrespective of any property held by a pensioner. While this would increase the total expenditure on pensions, it would avoid many of the complications which now arise in administering the act. 
I also welcome the proposed return to the former position in regard to old-age pensions. If pensioners occasionally take ardent spirits it should be remembered that brandy and whisky are often valuable for medicinal purposes. It is difficult to say that no pensioner should ever use stimulants. I object to any attempt being made to penalize a pensioner who takes liquor, unless he is incorrigible, and then he should be treated in an institution. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  had something to say about the ex-Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham)  prophesying that if the recent amendments of the Pensions Act were repealed an increase would occur in the total expenditure on pensions. That is only natural.  Mr. Latham  might also have said, when he submitted those amendments, that a considerable number of elderly people would not accept the pension on the ground that they objected to interference with their property rights. I know many cases of persons between the ages of 70 and 90 years who were very worried over the recent amendments of the law, because their sons and daughters, and perhaps other relatives, had helped considerably ' to pay for their homes. When they were asked practically to give up their property, and regard any future pension payments as a debt on their homes, they refused any longer to take the pension. Of course, there was a tremendous decrease of the amount expended on pensions, and of the number applied for. No doubt the Government made a grave mistake; it should berealized that this class of legislation is not palatable to Australians. It is generally considered that no political party should countenance such legislation, and I believe that no attempt will be made in future to put such proposals into effect. 
I have received a number of complaints about the way in which the present law has operated. It should be realized that men with considerable assets in the way of land could not obtain the paper value of their property if they were forced to sell it in the open market. An old-age pensioner wrote to me pointing out that he had certain commitments to meet for rates and taxes on land, and I told him that I had had some experience of unimproved lands. In Queensland cities and towns - and no doubt the position is similar in other States - small  blocks of land which are valued for taxation purposes at, say, £200, would scarcely realize £50 df they were sold to-day. Some of such land is actually unsaleable. Yet the old-age pensioners receive no credit for commitments which they have to meet by way of rates and taxes. When an attempt was made to force relatives to contribute to the pension, they had been hit so badly by the depression that they could not afford to do it, despite their desire to assist the aged pensioners. I regard the recent amendment of the law as an attempt to put the axe to the root of a very valuable principle - the recognition of the need to give indegent aged folk something to depend on in their declining days. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [12 noon]. -  in reply  - There is one matter about which, there appears to be some misapprehension, and which [ think I should mention before the bill passes the second reading. I refer to the attitude of the department towards pensioners who may become drunkards. I do not know whether  Senator Rae  has recently read the act and knows what really happens in such cases. In any event it is desirable that I should read the relevant sections so as to make the position quite clear. They are as follow : - 
(1.) When  a  pensioner is in any court convicted of drunkenness, or of any offence punishable by imprisonment for not less than one month, then, in addition to any other punishment imposed, the  Deputy  Commissioner may, by order, forfeit any one or more of the instalments falling due after the date of the conviction. (2.) Where a pensioner is twice within twelve months convicted of any offence punishable by imprisonment for not less than one month, or whore any pensioner is convicted of any offence punishable by imprisonment for twelve months or upwards, then, in lieu of forfeiting any instalment of the pension, the  Deputy  Commissioner shall, by order, cancel the pension certificate. (3.) In any case where any pension certificate is cancelled by the  Deputy  Commissioner, the pension shall be deemed to be absolutely forfeited, and the certificate shall be delivered up to the Registrar, and forwarded by him to the  Deputy  Commissioner. 
(1.) Notwithstanding that a pensioner has not been convicted of drunkenness, a Registrar may, and, if so requested by the  Deputy  Commissioner, shall, at any time summon any pensioner to appear before a magistrate to show cause why his pension should not be cancelled, reduced, or suspended for  a,  time on account of his drunken intemperate or disreputable habits; and at the time and place mentioned in the summons the magistrate may, if he thinks fit, recommend to the  Deputy  Commissioner the cancellation,, reduction, or suspension of the pension. (2.) The  Deputy  Commissioner shall, if he thinks fit, cancel, reduce, or suspend the pension accordingly. 
I have consulted officers of the Pensions Department as to the procedure under these sections, and I am given to understand that on a first conviction the pensioner is warned by the Registrar that, if he does not mend his ways action will have to be taken. When a pensioner has been twice convicted within twelve months his pension is cancelled. I would, however, impress upon honorable senators that no person so offending is dealt with in an arbitrary fashion. If occassionally a pensioner has a birthday and gets drunk, nothing happens beyond the warning; but obviously if a man forms the habit of getting drunk, he becomes a menace to himself because these are old people and care must .be taken of them. It is not correct to say, as  Senator Rae  did, thai by doing this, the department is taking away the pensioner's capacity to live. I indicated, by way of interjection when he was speaking, that in all the States there are homes for the indigent. Some are maintained by State governments, and others by some form of private charity. If a pensioner, after having been warned, continues ,to get drunk, he is unable to take care of himself and live properly, 'because he is dissipating his pension and. has no other source of income. The best place for him is a home where he -will be under some form of control. After his pension has been taken away, if ultimately that course is resorted to, a pensioner may, at the termination of six months, make a fresh application, 'and if he has become an inmate of a home, he may apply. As honorable senators are aware, a considerable amount of the old-age pensions bill is paid to the various States for the maintenance of pensioners in homes, and portion is paid to the pensioners themselves in these homes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. Report . adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read  a  second time. 
This measure is designed to provide a remedy in cases of groundless threats of legal proceedings by persons who claim to be the owners of copyright; but it does not in any way apply to the case of an owner of copyright whose copyright is, in fact, infringed. It is modelled on similar provisions in both the Patents Act and the Trade Marks Act. Some time ago, a royal commission inquired into the claims of the Performing Right Association, and in its report referred to the necessity for some such enactment. Although it may be thought that the bill has been introduced to give effect to the recommendations of that commission, its genesis really had no association with it. The reasons for its introduction arose in this way: There was at the last federal election in a certain electorate, which I need not name, a plethora of candidates belonging to the same side in politics. One of the candidates issued a "How to 
Vote " Labour card and immediately sought registration of the copyright of the production as for a literary work. 
He was. But some one else also got out a " How to Vote " Labour card. The only difference between the two cards was that the advice given to the voters varied slightly in that on one card the name of a particular candidate was printed in capital letters with, opposite it, the figure  " 1  " ; while on the other card the word " Labour " was, I believe, spelt in a different way - either with or without the letter " u "-and the figure  "1  " in large type was opposite another name. When the " sportsman," as  Senator Sampson  calls him, who had applied for the registration of his literary work, found that other persons were circulating " How to Vote " cards of a similar nature, thus prejudicing the chances of his candidature, he sent an agent to threaten his opponent with proceedings for a breach of his copyright. So effective was the threat that the supporters of the other candidate desisted in the distribution of their literary production, in respect of which the other man claimed to hold the copyright. I do not know whether what happened proves the effectiveness or otherwise of the written word; but I can say that neither candidate was successful. Honorable senators, therefore, need not look around this chamber or another place in the hope of seeing the "sportsman ". As a matter of fact, one lost his deposit, and he claims to have lost it because of the threat issued by the other party to prevent him from issuing his "How to Vote" card. The bill had its origin in a somewhat trifling incident, but the necessity for its introduction extends beyond such cases as the one I have quoted. We are incorporating in the principal act a provision almost exactly similar to that contained in the Patents Act and the Trade Marks Act, and we have been influenced to some extent by the recommendation of the Royal Commission on Performing Rights. The Government thought it right that there should be some such provision, and this amending bill has been introduced for that purpose. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
1 candidly admit that I did not see the article mentioned by the Minister; but on my return home T shall read it. Will the Minister say if the distribution of this magazine through the usual channels has been prohibited because it contains seditious articles? I do not suggest that publications which contravene the Commonwealth law should be permitted to pass through the usual channels, particularly if they contain articles written with the idea of attempting to suborn the members of the Australian naval forces or to bring about a revolution in Australia. 
But, so far as I could see, the magazine I received did not contain anything of that nature. Those interested in the socialistic experiments taking place in various parts of the world are anxious to obtain the fullest information possible. I would protest just as strongly if the distribution of magazines issued at Rome relative to the work of Mussolini or at Berlin in connexion with the activities of Hitler was prohibited. On general grounds I am opposed to the postal authorities acting in this way simply because a publication is issued from a .particular quarter. Whether we do or do not agree with the socialistic experiments being conducted in Russia we have to remember that that country is now a member of the League of Nations, and that its representatives sit check by jowl with those of the British Empire. Russia advocates universal disarmament. 
Yes, following on the lines of other nations. Surrounded by huge arsenals it would be stupid to disarm. 
I believe that it has and one which is feared by other nations. Russia would disarm if other nations would also disarm. This petty form of tyranny should cease, particularly when it 13 exercised by individuals who because they are prejudiced  against  certain nations go to the extreme of preventing others gaining knowledge of their working. If this policy is to be continued the Government might as well erect a wall around Australia and isolate us completely. I trust that the Minister will give the reason why the circulation of this magazine which, so far as I know, docs not contain seditious or blasphemous statements has been prohibited. 
[12.26]. - In the absence of the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLachlan)  I am unable to express the viewpoint of the postal authorities who doubtless have good reasons for the action they hare taken in connexion with the magazine referred to by  Senator Brown.  I happen, however, to have perused the two specimen copies to which, I presumo the honorable senator refers. I am. not quite sure on that point, but judging from the honorable senator's description of the articles they contain the magazines are those which I read. They are very interesting. In one article a contrast was drawn between the methods of conducting the Australian Navy and maintaining discipline, and those obtaining in the Soviet Navy. Knowing the insidious nature of the propaganda directed from Moscow, one has only to read the article to see what is intended. It is meant to suggest that the system adopted in the Russian revolution of controlling the navy by committees from the lower deck should be copied by the Australian Navy. Appreciative reference is. made to the attempt to suborn the members of the Australian Naval Forces not very long ago, and deprecatory remarks are made in regard to the punishment inflicted upon those who attempted to introduce direct action in the Australian Navy. The article does not advocate the overthrow of constitutional government by force or violence, but, of course, we are not quite so simple as not to know what is intended by that propaganda. Are we to be so stupid or so foolish as to allow people, who blazon on their programme that their aim is the overthrow of capitalist governments by force or violence, to make such statements ? They do not openly advocate a bloody revolution, but adopt a system of white-anting and undermining. Are we to allow the liberties of the people of this country to be taken away by giving a licence to certain persons to do that sort of thing? This Government is not quite so simple. It is in power with the consent of the people, and it does not intend to allow Australia to be influenced by such insidious propaganda. 
 Mr. President- 
The Minister having replied, the debate is now closed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Senate adjourned at 12.30 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the recently erected suspension bridge over the MolongloRiver has not been painted? 
In its present state, is it in keeping with the beauty of its natural surroundings? 
Will he have the timber of the bridge protected by paint before the winter sets -in? 
It was necessary to defer the painting of the bridge until the timber had dried out so as to ensure a satisfactory job, but the work will be carried out and completed immediately the timber is in a suitable condition. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Briefly, the purpose of this measure is to enable the bounty on raw cotton to be paid one week earlier than is provided for under existing legislation. Section 9 of the Raw Cotton Bounty Act 1934 provides that bounty shall be payable on raw cotton produced during each week ending on Friday, at a fluctuating rate dependent upon the Liverpool spot price on the Friday of that week. Although this section is in accordance with the Tariff Board's recommendation, it is not by any means a vital part of the new cotton policy, and the Tariff Board mentioned the possibility of some of its suggestions being varied in order to meet the legitimate needs or convenience of the industry. The Cotton Board has pointed out that the Liverpool price on each Friday will not be known in Australia until the next Monday. This means that the despatch to growers of cheques covering market value and bounty for any of the previous week's cotton cannot be started until eight days after the cotton is ginned. This delay of eight days is additional to the average period of a fortnight, under the previous seed cotton bounty, between the grower's consignment of seed cotton to the ginnery and his receipt of a cheque for market value plus bounty. As most growers are dependent upon their cheques for the payment of wages to cottonpickers, which, I understand, is the largest item of production costs, and pickers usually have to await their wages in order to meet storekeepers' accounts, it is thought that a considerable service will be rendered to the industry if the advancement of the date of payment, as proposed in the bill, is approved by Parliament. This measure consists of three clauses, and the necessary amendment is made in clause 3. It is purely a machinery bill. 
We, on the Opposition side, have no desire to delay the passage of this bill. The cotton-growers need the money that will be paid under it. Considerable dissatisfaction prevails amongst them regarding the action taken by the Government in connexion with their industry. A few weeks ago I was asked to tour the cotton districts of Queensland, but, unfortunately, owing to floods, I was unable to do so. A member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly informed me, however, that the cottongrowers were distressed, in many cases, because of the action of the Government in allowing certain cotton goods to be imported into Australia, thereby preventing the sale of about 6,000 bales of cotton on the local market. 
The honorable senator's interjection is unseemly. I am merely occupying the time of the Senate for a few moments-- 
I shall leave the honorable senator to attempt to justify the Government's action, at the conclusion of my remarks. As  Senator Hoare  has reminded me, I am one of the representatives of a State in which cotton is  grown,  and we desire to take this opportunity to tell the Government that, because it  gave  way to pressure from Lancashire^ 
The title of this bill clearly indicates that it deals merely with an alteration of the manner of paying the bounty. 
I uphold the point of order. The honorable senator knows that the bill relates merely to the manner of paying the cotton bounty. If lie desires to express his opinion as to the action of the Government in any other direction, he may not do so in discussing this bill. He may not enlarge on the subject of the cotton industry generally. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee : 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Rates of bounty). 
.  -  This clause, as . I understand it, does not make any alteration of the amount of the bounty itself, but simply alters the date on which the bounty is to be calculated. 
, - .Since the policy of the Government militates against the cotton industry I should like to know whether it will be possible to provide in this bill for an increased bounty. The Government has given way to pressure from Lancashire and so has caused disquietude and distress among the cotton-growers of Queensland. If it intends to continue that policy with the result- 
 The honorable senator must connect his remarks with clause 3. 
No. The honorable senator will not be in order in proceeding along those lines. 

 - Senator Brown's remarks must be relevant to the clause. The motion for the second reading of the bill afforded wider scope for discussion, but in dealing in committee with clause 3 an honorable senator would not be in order in referring to, for instance, pressure brought upon the Government by Lancashire. Such a matter has no bearing whatever on the clause. 
It cannot be discussed on this clause. 
I ruled that  Senator Brown  was not in order in referring to government policy, and pressure brought to bear by Lancashire. The marginal note refers strictly to rates of bounty. If  Senator Brown  wishes to deal with the question of the rate of bounty, he will be in order in doing so. 
The honorable senator would be in order in making passing reference to that matter, but he cannot deal at length with the general policy of the Government. I ask the honorable senator to proceed with the discussion of the clause. 
I ask the honorable senator to proceed with the discussion of the clause. 
Order ! I have ruled that the honorable senator's remarks must be relevant to clause 3. The honorable senator may make passing reference to government policy in order to support his arguments, but he must not deal at length with any question of pressure exerted by Lancashire. An opportunity to introduce that aspect of the matter was afforded during the second reading of the bill, and a further opportunity may be extended on the third reading of the bill. 
I ask the honorable senator either to proceed with the debate or to move a motion of dissent from my ruling. I have been tolerant with the honorable senator, and I ask him now to proceed in accordance with the Standing Orders. 
I understand an opportunity will be given honorable senators to deal with the whole question of the bounty more fully on the motion for the third reading of the bill. I submit, however, that we should be permitted a! this stage, in dealing with a clause relating to rates of bounty, to discuss  whether  the. bounty paid is sufficient. I have read in the press recently, that  the  Theodore settlement in Queensland is becoming a failure. 
The Minister has a number of investments; he himself may be interested in Fijian gold-mining. Newspaper articles hav*1 proved that 40 per cent, of the settlers on the Theodore settlement, a big undertaking financed by the Queensland Government, are in danger of being wiped out. I visited that district six years ago, and it was then flourishing. The main production on the settlement is cotton. The Dawson River Valley is particularly suitable for the growth of cotton, but the rates of bounty now being paid are not sufficient to enable the industry, to develop. 

 Senator McLachlan. -  I rise to a point of order. The marginal note to this clause is that of the section of the principal act which it amends. As I explained earlier, in answering a pointraised by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  the amendment has nothing to do with the rate of bounty. In the section which is being amended the words "When the 
Liverpool price on that Friday is 6cl. per lb." are used. The proposed amendment is to strike out the words " that Friday " and to substitute in lieu thereof the words " the last preceding Friday ". The clause deals only- with the day upon which the bounty is to be computed, and has nothing whatever to do with thc actual rate of bounty. 
It is not my intention to delay the passage of this bill ; but I submit that,, under this clause, honorable senators have the right to refer to the conditions in the Aus tralian cotton-growing industry, which have been before the public for some time, and particularly during the last twelve months. There are many reasons why  a  bounty higher than that at present paid should be granted to the cotton-growers. The Theodore settlement is of great importance to Queensland, and if something is not done to assist the cottongrowers in that district, particularly in the direction of increasing the rate of bounty, many of them will be compelled to leave their holdings. The areas in Queensland on which cotton can be successfully grown are not extensive. 
 I realize that; but I object to certain honorable senators, including the Minister in charge of the bill, attempting to usurp the functions of the Chair. 
Certain honorable senators opposite are attempting to prevent me from placing the position of the Queensland cotton growers before the committee. I trust that the bill will have a speedy passage, because I believe it will be of benefit to the cotton-growers. The Queensland cotton industry, which is very valuable to Australia, cannot expect the support of honorable senators opposite. 
I do not propose to do so this afternoon, because I understand that an opportunity will be afforded when an amended tariff schedule is before the Senate. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber are anxious to do all they can to assist a great national industry. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
.  - I move - 
That  the bill be  now  read  a  second time. 
The bill is to amend sections 3, 11 and 12 of the Spirits Act 1906-1932 in respect of the period during which Australian and imported whisky shall be matured in wood. Until October, 1932, the minimum age prescribed in the Spirits Act at which whisky could be sold for consumption was two years. During the debate on the tariff schedule in 1931 it was resolved thatthe period of maturation in respect of Australian whisky should be increased to three years. This amendment of the tariff schedule necessitated an amendment of the Spirits Act, and. in October, 1932, sections 3 and 12 of the act were amended to bring them into line with the excise tariff with respect to the maturation period of Australian whisky, and. as a corollary, section 11 of the act was amended at the same time, so that similar conditions would be applicable to imported whisky. By the passing of act No. 23 of 1933 in November, 1933, the operation of the 1932 act was suspended until the 1st October, 1935. The Tariff Board was asked to report as to the necessity for increasing the maturation period for whisky from two to three years, and the conclusions of the majority of the board were as follows: - 
That it has not been established that an extension of the compulsory maturation period from two years to three years is necessary in the interests of public health. 
That the evidence as to theimprovement in flavour of whisky stored in Australia for three as against two years is not sufficient to justify government action to ensure compulsory maturation of whisky for a longer period than two years. 
A minority of the board came to the following conclusions :  - 
That the excise tariff provision for three years compulsory maturation of whisky should be brought into force as provided, but that early action should be taken to increase the period to four years, provided that three years' notice be given before the four years' period becomes operative. 
The object of the motion adopted by Parliament in 1931 to increase the compulsory maturation period for whisky from two to three years was to protect the health of the consumers. The Tariff Board has, however, stated that no convincing evidence was submitted at the inquiry to establish that considerations of public health called for an extension of the twoyear period. In the trade, opinions are divided as to the necessity for a longer period of maturation than two years. The interests supporting the longer period claim that whisky improves in quality during the third and subsequent years of maturation, and that the cost of storage per gallon is low. 
Whilst the importance of quality is recognized, the object of the maturation provisions of the act is not the fixing of a standard of quality but the safeguarding of public health by ensuring that no spirit shall be sold for consumption until it has been matured sufficiently to make it fit for human consumption. The evidence available indicates that a period of two years is sufficient to achieve that object. If, as stated, the cost of storage is low, and the quality improves with a longer period of maturity, the enhanced quality of the product should be sufficient inducement for distillers to mature their spirit for a longer period than two years. It is, therefore, proposed to amend the Spirits Act to provide for a reversion to the period of maturation for whisky which was in force from  1908-31,  a period of  22  years. 
.- I have no opposition to offer to this bill, although as one who likes an occasional drop of whisky, I. have strong opinions regarding the period of maturation. In the interests of public health, I think that a period of three years is short enough. But, after all, we may safely leave it to those who drink whisky to safeguard their own interests. If whisky were offered for sale in bottles whose labels indicated that their contents had been matured for four months, or even for seven months, not many whisky drinkers would touch it. I know that I would not. For that reason, I am of the opinion that the public will safeguard itself in this matter. Nevertheless, I should like to know the reason for the proposed alteration of the maturation period. Is some firm in such financial straits that it cannot hold on for another year unless the period of maturation is reduced from three years to two years, thereby enabling it to 'dispose of its product? Some years ago I visited a distillery and was amazed at the quantity of spirit in storage there. It seemed to me that sufficient spirit was on hand to fill a building as large as Parliament House, and I thought that that one distillery contained sufficient whisky to supply the world for the next  50  years. Surely all that spirit has not gone into consumption! There must be large quantities of whisky still available, and, therefore, I cannot understand the reason for the introduction of this measure. I feel somewhat concerned about the reduction of the period of maturation to two years, because I know enough about spirits not to drink whisky which has been matured for only two years. I say to my innocent friends in this chamber that they would be well advised not to drink whisky which is only two years old. Whatever the age of whisky, there are some persons who would be better off if they drank less of it;  on  the other band, there are some who would be improved by an occasional drink. The Minister has not put forward any sound reason for the change. 
Australia then had easy access to the more mature whiskies of Scotland, Ireland and other countries. During the war, the whisky stocks of the world were depleted, and it might have been necessary, following the war, to reduce the maturation period to two years in order to make supplies available; but surely those circumstances do not exist to-day. The distillers have had ample time to replenish their stocks, so that I cannot understand the purpose of the Government in submitting this measure. I do not wish to vote against the bill, but I should like to know the reason for the change. If there were danger of  a  shortage of whisky in Australia, I could understand the Government's action; but there is no evidence before the Senate of insufficient stocks of spirits in Australia to satisfy the consuming public, even with the maturation period remaining at three years. I recently read in a book by  Sir Walter  Scott, a toast which it might not be inappropriate to mention when discussing a bill dealing with the maturation period of whisky. Three old gentlemen, having in front of them a bottle of good whisky, were seated around a table in a fine old library, discussing a number of congenial topics. The toast which they honoured, and which commended itself very much to me, was this - 
Old wood best to burn, old wine to drink, old friends to trust, and old authors to read. 
I hope that honorable senators on both sides of this chamber will always have plenty of these good things. 
 I am opposed to the bill, because, for one reason, I am keenly interested in the establishment and maintenance of Australian industries. TheMinister in charge of the measure  (Senator McLachlan)  in his second-reading speech said, that it related also to the operation of overseas whisky firms. I suggest to him and the Senate that no overseas whisky less than three years old isimported to this country. If any honorable senator cares to visit the bar at Parliament House, and examine the labels of the whisky bottles on the shelves there,.  he will find that each proclaims the contents to be " matured old whisky ". The Minister, whilst my leader was speaking, interjected to the effect that from 1908 to 1921, the regulations under the Spirits Act provided for a maturation period of two years. He did not, however, say what was the quantity of whisky produced in Australia during that period. The figures for the years 1921 to 1934 show that the Australian distilleries have made great inroads into the trade of importers ofoverseas whisky. The Minister admitted that there was a difference of opinion in the trade as to whether the period should be two years or three years. During the regime of the Scullin Government, the period was fixed at three years, and the Australian industry was firmly established under that arrangement. Now some one comes along and suggests that the period should be reduced to two years. I happen to know something about the agitation which took place a few years ago as to the period of maturation, and I recall that only one firm at that time desired the period to be fixed at two years. The other firm, which had become well established, and was an important competitor of overseas whisky firms, desired the period to he fixed at three years. I should like the Minister to tell the Senate definitely whether the section which now desires the maturation period to be two years is the smaller or the larger section of the Australian industry. Personally, I do not know whether whisky can mature in two years or three years, because I do not drink it; but I do know that some years ago a complete investigation was made into the question, and, as a result, the Scullin Government fixed the period at three years. 
The view of the Government at that time was that the minimum period of maturation should be three years. There may have been a snap vote in the House of Representatives, as the Postmaster-General has indicated.We all know that when these matters are under discussion, a good deal of lobbying takes place in connexion with particular items, and sometimes snap divisions determine the issues. But there can be no doubt about my statement that the view of the Government at that time was that the period should be three years. Why are we continually tinkering in this way with private enterprise? If the encouragement of private enterprise is the policy of this Government why should it be necessary to legislate to tell private enterprise how to conduct its business? The consensus of opinion in the trade is that the minimum period of maturation should be three years. Therefore, honorable senators should hesitate before, simply on the statement of the Minister, they agree to pass this bill telling private enterprise how to conduct its business. 
Of course it is not. Yet, we are asked to sit in judgment on a violent conflict of opinion amongst the makers of whisky as to the period of maturation. If this bill is adopted in its present form, the manufacturers of whisky should be required to indicate clearly on the labels of whisky produced by them the period of maturation, so that the consumer may know what he is getting. I feel sure that, if the Minister made it plain that one requirement of the passage of this bill was that whisky offered for sale should bear a label indicating that it had been matured for two years only, those who agitated for this alteration of the law would at once urge the Government to drop the bill. 
I do not know, but if customers knew that a whisky offered to them was only two years old, they would, I am sure, insist upon being served with a whisky that had been matured for a longer period. I intend to vote against the second reading, and when the bill is in committee, I shall submit an amendment, requiring manufacturers to distinguish between a product which is two years old and whisky that has been matured for three years or longer. 
1 listened attentively to the secondreading speech of the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator McLachlan).  Notwithstanding the majority report and recommendations of the Tariff Board, I am still of the opinion that the passage of this measure would be a retrograde step. Heaven forbid that I should pose as a connoisseur of whisky, but I do know what is palatable and unpalatable. It is, I think, significant that whenever there is a discussion about the manufacture and maturation period of whisky, we hear imputations of motives from both sides. In his evidence before the Tariff Board,  Mr. Ralph  said - 
Thu present proposal to arbitrarily increase thu minimum to three years is, although  camouflaged  nothing more or less than a device of thi- wealthy section of distillers to embarrass, and perhaps crush, their smaller and less  financial  competitors. 
When this subject was under discussion on an curlier occasion, it was argued that the big manufacturer was intent upon preventing the smaller manufacturer from marketing his product. The period of maturation is a vexed question. The argument now is that as evaporation is more pronounced in Australia than in Scotland, the home of good whisky, the period of maturation may be reduced from three years to two years. This seems a plausible argument, but there is a wealth of evidence on both sides, and as this is a highly technical subject, it is difficult for the layman to thoroughly understand it in all its aspects. When I was privileged to visit Scotland after the war, like  Senator Barnes  I visited some of the best known Scottish distilleries and saw there vast quantities of spirit in varying stages of maturation. Some of the whisky, I was informed, had been laid down during the reign of King Edward VII.,  and I must confess that. I never tasted anything more satisfying and. agreeable in my life. That mellow whisky fully confirmed all that I had heard about the gustatory properties of this wonderful beverage. I, therefore, feel sure that all this talk about whisky reaching full maturity in two or three years, and that it does not improve after that period, is sheer nonsense. In the light of my personal experiences in 
Scotland, where people have been making whisky for countless generations, the argument that whisky can be fully matured in the wood in two years is absolute tosh. The suggestion that the agitation for a minimum period of three years is part of a sinister scheme on the part of the large Scottish distilleries to crush Australian makers of whisky does not sound right to me, because we may be quite sure that Scottish whisky manufacturers would not put an immature whisky on the market. They have to think of their reputation as the makers of the finest whisky in the world. 

 Mr. Ralph, in giving evidence, proceeded to argue that, in Great Britain, a section of the distillers desired to have the period of maturation of whisky extended to three years in order to advance their interests as opposed to those of Australian distillers who manufacture whisky from grain. Most of his statements, so far as I can see, were quite antagonistic to those put forward by chemists and others connected with the distilling business, whose contention and experiments would go to show that the longer a whisky is kept in the wood the more palatable, smooth and mellow it becomes. 
In 1915, the period of maturation in Great Britain was fixed at three years, upon the unanimous recommendation of a whisky committee that was set up, and after it had heard evidence from all theparties engaged in the industry there. Et would bc a retrograde step, I think, to make the period of maturation in Australia two years, and at the committee stage I shall move for the insertion of an amendment with regard to imported whisky. When the period was increased in Great Britain, the great distilling firms of Scotland were able to induce other countries to extend their periods. The list showing the maturation times in various countries is a very interesting one. A five years' period is provided in Norway, the Irish Free State and New Zealand. The increased period will begin to operate in New Zealand on the 1st May next. In the United States of America, the period is four years, and a three years' period is observed in Great Britain, the Union of South Africa, theBahama Islands, Bermuda, Ceylon, Denmark, Ecuador, Fiji Islands, Gambier, 
Gold Coast Colony, Hong Kong, Kenya, New Hebrides, Papua, Peru, and the Philippine Islands. I point out that New Zealand has decided only recently to increase the period of maturation from three to five years. The policy adopted in the House of Representatives in 1931, to which  Senator Daly  alluded, was in line with that followed in other parts of the Empire, and I regard it as sound. It is in conformity with that laid down by the Whisky Association of Great Britain, which comprises the whole of the distilling interests of England, Scotland and Ireland. 
Having read the bill, and having listened to the speech by the Minister, it seems to me that the measure seeks to apply the same maturation period to imported as to Australian whisky. The original act extended the period for imported whisky from two to three years as from the 1st October, 1935. The Tariff Board, in its majority report, dealt entirely with the maturation of Australian whisky, and I do not believe that the board has been concerned at all about the imported article. 
Yes. The board says that maturation beyond the period of two years makes no difference to the quality of the spirit, and that the twoyears period is quite sufficient in Australia. Apparently, the board has not considered the position of the Scottish distilleries, although one of the arguments put forward is that the processes which go on in the wood are much more rapid in Australia than in colder climates. Provided that that contention is sound, if we admitted to Australia a whisky made in a colder climate after two year's maturation, it would be immature. 
That is so. It would be a retrograde step, and one of serious moment if the Government reduced the compulsory maturation period for imported whisky from three to two years. 
The board declared that two years maturation was sufficient. I have tried several Australian whiskies, but they do not appeal to my palate. I regard them as harsh and somewhat crude, and I think that they would be all the better for probably five or ten years' maturation in the wood. I might then taste them, and express an opinion regarding them. 
No, I believe that all grog should be true to label. The public should be protected. It  is  wicked to supply men with fire-water. The health of the public should be safeguarded in every way. Cheap and immature whisky is being exported in large quantities by Japanese distilleries to all parts of the world. I do not know the maturation requirements in that country. 
SenatorFoll.  -  Two years. 
I understand that that is one of the factors which influenced the New Zealand Government in increasing the period in that dominion from three to five years. A reversion to a two-years minimum would be liable to increase the risk of immature spirit being brought into Australia. I listened attentively to the Minister, and I was disappointed with the unconvincing case presented by him. I cannot see why the maturation period in this country should be reduced. 
 My opinion on this matter is the same as that expressed by me in discussing the excise tariff in 1933, and it has since been supported by the report of the Tariff Board. Honorable senators who have spoken have said remarkably little about the terms of the Tariff Board's report.  Senator Sampson  devoted some attention to the  evidence  given by one of the witnesses called before it, but he did not give us many details concerning the board's finding. Its decision was not unanimous; it  was  a three-to-one finding, the three members including the  chairman  of the board. 
Therefore its verdict might fairly be considered to be quite as worthy of consideration as the opinion of one witness. The attitude adopted by some honorable senators - the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  I think, did not have the position quite clear in his mind - has been that this is an attempt to reduce the period of maturation. Technically, that may be so; but I shall read what the Tariff Board said on several material points. On page 8, the board stated - 
Compulsory maturation for whisky for two years has operated in Australia for 26 years. It. has operated since 1908, when it was brought in, until 1931 when it was altered by a vote in the lower House. 
It would certainly appear that the alteration was made without adequate discussion, and without reference to the Tariff Board. In fact, it went through in opposition to the Labour Ministry, of which, I think,  Senator Barnes  and perhaps  Senator Daly  were members. That Government was in favour of the twoyears period, but a proposal in favour of three years maturation was carried against the Government, as was mentioned in the other branch of the legislature only last week by the honorable member for Capricornia  (Mr. Forde). 
I think it was. From the 21st October, 1931, to the 26th February, 1932, the three-years requirement was in force. Then the Tariff Board recommended reversion to the two-years period until the 1st October, 1933, after which date the three-years period should again be enforced. The two-years period was then further extended so that the board might inquire into the matter, and it would appear that, from 1908 to the present time, the three-years period has operated for only about four months. How any honorable senator can claim that the customary maturation period in Australia is three years, and that this bill is an attempt to reduce it to two years, when, in fact, the two-years period since 1908 has operated for 26 years, passes my comprehension. 
I cannot say. The stock may be two years old, for all I know. Another point raised by  Senator Sampson  was the question of whether foreign whisky was properly matured. I point out that under the Spirits Act 1906 one of the qualifications of Australian standard malt whisky and Australian blended whisky is that it must have been matured while subject to the control of the customs by storage in wood for a period of not less than two years. As the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  has stated, a certificate is forwarded in respect of all whisky imported into Australia from Great Britain, and probably similar certificates of maturation are required in respect of imports from other countries. But whatever whisky is imported from abroad for the purpose of blending with Australian whisky it must remain under the supervision of the customs in Australia for two years. 

 Senator Sampson also raised the question of health. In regard to this matter I desire to quote again from the Tariff Board's majority report. The report says - 
Notwithstanding that the period had been extended to three years on the grounds of public health and that early in the board's inquiry the " health aspect " was opened up, it is significant that no convincing evidence was submitted at the inquiry to establish as a fact that consideration for the public health called for any extension of the period beyond the existing two years. 
And again, on page 8 of the report, the Tariff Board states - 
The board has already stated that in its opinion consideration of the health of the community does not call for the proposed extension. 
So that- a majority of the members of the Tariff Board, including the  chairman,  has decided that the question of health does not come in at all. It is really a question of prejudice; for health reasons there was no need for the extension. 
I shall make some short reference to that. I recommend the honorable senator also to read the Tariff Board report on the subject, because it contains some comments upon the fact that there is a conflict of interests. The members of the Tariff Board have obviously tried to keep the scales even as between conflicting interests, and though they admit the existence of conflicting interests they are not prepared to recommend that the period of maturation should be extended without good reason for the benefit of some of those interests. They say that no matter what may be the opinion as to taste and palate no question of health arises, and yet it has always been a guiding factor with regard to legislation of this kind that the two years period should be laid down for health purposes. Maturation to a great extent depends on evaporation, as honorable senators will find from the report in the summary of evidence of  Dr. Hargreaves.  According to  Dr. Hargreaves,  under ordinary conditions of storage, evaporation takes place in Adelaide approximately four times as quickly as in Edinburgh. Dealing with this subject the majority report of the Tariff Board is as follows - 
In the opinion of the board, the evidence was convincing that climatic conditions do affect the rate of maturation, and that it is reasonable on that account alone that the period for compulsory bonding should be less in Australia than in the United Kingdom. 
Evaporation in wood takes place much more rapidly in Australia than in Scotland, and therefore the period prescribed for maturation in Australia should be less than in the United Kingdom. 
Scotch whisky made its reputation when no restrictions were imposed as to the maturation period. There is nothing in this act to prevent any distiller from maturing his whisky for as long a period as he chooses. Then, too, no extension was made in the period for the maturation of brandy. If it was sound to provide a maturation period of three years for whisky, it should have been equally sound to fix the same period in respect of brandy. 
-Foi the purposes of this bill there is an analogy. 
If there is any difference how does the honorable senator account for the fact that the period of maturation of both spirits remained at two years from 1908 to 1931 ? The Government of which the honorable senator was a Minister was against the extension to. three years in the case of whisky, but. that extension was carried contrary to its desire. 

 - Dr. Hargreaves says that maturation does not increase wholesomeness, and that there is no necessity to increase the compulsory maturation period from two to three years. I have made it plain that the two-year period of maturation has been accepted as the recognized period in Australia ; I have emphasized that evaporation in Australia takes place at a much more rapid rate than it does in Scotland, and I desire now to say a word or two in regard to the question of reputation. In this connexion I will use again the Tariff Board's words : " There have been suggestions that the reduction of the maturation period to two years will ruin the reputation of Australian whisky"; but no such claim was made when older firms were getting the advantage of the two-year period to bring their wares to market; only when they had become thoroughly established was it proposed to extend the period. The Tariff Board finally sums up its views on the subject in these words - 
Furthermore, while it is recognized amongst whisky consumers that palatability generally improves with age, there was evidence that there is no marked improvement in some Australian whisky as between two years and throe years. The board is convinced that the adoption of the extended period will have very little, if any, effect on the general reputation of Australian whisky. 1 have shown that the reputation of Australian whisky will not suffer; that evaporation conditions make the procedure adopted in Scotland different from that adopted here: and that the extension from two to three years was carried in the first place against the wish of the government of the day, and, as a matter of fact, has been in force for only a few months. Further, after listening to the evidence of numerous witnesses, the Tariff Board, although not quite unanimous, has definitely decided that an extension of the maturation period is not required for health reasons. I support, the bill. I take precisely the same view that. I took in 1933, and my opinion is now more than reinforced by the fact that, with one exception, the members of the Tariff Board hold the views which I then expressed. 
 in reply  - There seems to be some misapprehension in the minds of honorable senators regarding the history of this matter and what is now proposed in  regard  to it. As  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has said, with the exception of some four months, we have never had more than &lt;i two-years' maturation period in this country. I have read- the scientific evidence presented to the Tariff Board and want to dispel from the minds of honorable senators any doubt as to whether an extension of the maturation period would have a beneficial effect on the health of consumers. It has been demonstrated beyond measure by. chemists that maturity is reached in two years, and that also is shown by the fact that for 26 years the prescribed period for maturation in Australia remained at two years. The maturation period in Scotland is three years. The period we now propose to provide for maturation in Australia is two years. But technical evidence, as submitted to the Tariff Board, shows that, comparing South Australia with New Zealand, evaporation takes place in the proportion of 44 to 33, in other words, evaporation takes place at a much higher rate in Adelaide. The suggestion that we are going back on something that has been the settled policy of this country is utterly unfounded.  Senator Daly  said that the policy of the Scullin Government was the same as that of this Government. 
Our policy is the same as 'that of previous governments; but the period of maturation we are now advocating has received the endorsement of the Tariff Board. A portion of the report of the discussion' in the House of Representatives is as follows : - 

 Mr. WHITE. It is therefore proposed to amend the Spirits Act to provide for reversion to the two-year period of maturation for whisky which was in force from 1908 to 1931. 

 Mr. Beasley.  Why was the three year period adopted? 

 Mr. WHITE. It was enacted as the result of a snap vote on an amendment moved to the bill introduced by the Government. I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will remember the incident. 

 Mr. Forde.  Yes. My attitude then was the attitude now adopted by the majority of the members of the Tariff Board. 
It is not the responsibility of the Government to consider this subject from other than the view-point of the health of consumers. In giving evidence before the Tariff Board,  Dr. W.  A. Hargreaves, South Australian analyst, said - 
In maturation, many factors come into play, and of these the most important fixed factor is evaporation. 
The country which is most favoured in regard to evaporation has the advantage of faster maturation - in this respect Australia hass a big advantage over Scotland. 
There are three kinds of maturation, viz., compulsory maturation to remove deleterious substances, trade maturation to improve taste or flavour, and maturation of wine. 
Under ordinary conditions of storage evaporation in Adelaide approximates four times that of Edinburgh. Maturation must, of necessity, be faster in Adelaide than in Scotland, oxidation and concentration must be faster, and flavour must be made or marred at a faster rate. 
The Tariff Board stated that- 
Notwithstanding that the period had been extended to three years on the grounds of public health, and that early in the board's inquiry the " health aspect " was opened up, it is significant that no convincing evidence was submitted at the inquiry to establish as a fact that consideration for the public health called for any extension of the period beyond the existing two years. 
On the other hand, the evidence was overwhelming that such substances as are deleterious to health, and are found in twoyearold whisky, do not decrease with age. In fact, the more harmful substances of furfurol and fusel oil tend to increase in percentage as whisky is stored. In making this point no inference is intended that the public health is endangered by the increase - the proportions of furfurol and fusel oil are very small. 
A royal commission on whisky and other potable spirits, held in Great Britain in 1908-9, stated :  - " In our opinion, the compulsory bonding of spirits for a prescribed length of time could only be justified if it were established that such restriction of trade is necessary in the interests of public health ". After shortly reviewing the evidence available, the commission concluded that it was " not desirable to require a minimum period during which spirits should be matured in bond ". It will be noted that the date of this finding was subsequent to the legal compulsion of the two-years' period in Australia: 
Having regard to the fact that whisky matures four times as rapidly in Adelaide as in Edinburgh, the following pertinent point contained in  Dr. Hargreaves'  evidence is of interest :  - 
The actual evaporation that takes place in a warehouse where whisky is stored under normal conditions would be very difficult to ascertain, but it must be more or less affected by climatic conditions surrounding the warehouse, so that if two places are compared, one having four times the evaporation of the other as determined by meteorologists at those places, it follows that in normal warehouses the evaporation in one will be much greater than in the other whatever the ratio may be. 
Having quoted official figures showing that the average evaporation in Edinburgh was 14.2, as against Adelaide, 55, he continued - 
Under ordinary conditions of storage, therefore, evaporation in Adelaide will approximate to four times that of Edinburgh. Maturation must, of necessity, be faster in Adelaide than in Scotland, and oxidation and concentration must be faster, and flavour must be made or marred at a faster rate. From this point of view alone, without other considerations that point in the same direction, I am of opinion that the compulsory maturation period in Australia might reasonably be less than any that might be adopted in Great Britain. 
The Tariff Board's report continues - 
The view that climatic conditions influenced maturation was adopted by the British royal commission of 1908-0. In their conclusion they stated (folio 498, page 44): - "Even in the case of spirits of the same character differences in conditions of storage, such as the nature and size of the vessels in which the spirit is kept, the relative humidity of the place in which it is stored, and climatic conditions generally have a considerable effect in determining the rapidity of maturation ".  Sir James  Dewar, an eminent chemist not connected with any distilling interests, made this point very clear in his evidence before the British commission: - Question No. 10,932 - " What are your views with regard to the ageing of whisky?" Answer - "My view is thatI have noticed a very great difference in the rapidity with which the whisky matures when I use it in a damp cellar in Cambridge as compared with a dry atmosphere in London ..." 
As it would appear that a maturation period of two years in Australia is equivalent to four years in Great Britain, it may be held that a longer period should be provided in respect of imported whisky. The Government has been influenced by the recommendations of the Tariff Board, the adoption of which will be a means of assisting those engaged in the production of whisky in Australia. On two occasions the operations of the law have been suspended temporarily to give Australian manufacturers an opportunity to replenish their stocks and to meet the requirements of the Australian public. The Government has endeavoured to hold the scales evenly between all interests. Honorable senators should support the second reading of the bill, and, in committee, they may, if they so desire, move amendments. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee : 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 - 
Section eleven of the principal act is amended by omitting the proviso to that section. 

 Section proposed to be amended - 11. ...  " Provided that, in the case of imported whisky, the period of maturity by storage in wood shall not be less than three years ". 
I move - 
That after the word " section " second occurring the following words be inserted: - " and inserting in its stead the following proviso: - Provided that on and after the first day of October, 1935, in the case of imported whisky, the period of maturity by storage in wood shall not be less than five years." 
The amendment is in accordance with the views which I expressed in my secondreading speech in that it seeks to bring Australia into line with New Zealand. 
I can understand the motive of the honorable senator in moving his amendment, but I am in some difficulty regarding it, because the period of maturation fixed by the British Government is three years. Although, from the point of view of maturation, that period in the Old Country may not be equivalent to two years in Australia, I think that we should be overdoing things if we made the period five years. I understand that the Minister for Trade and Customs is agreeable to a period of three years, and if  Senator Sampson  is prepared to alter his amendment to provide for that period instead of five years, I am ready to accept it in principle, although I should like an opportunity to study its wording: There have been so many amendments of the principal act, and suspensions of various sections of it, that I am not sure whether the amendment is proposed in the most appropriate place. It would be somewhat inconsistent not to allow the product of the British manufacturer of whisky into this country until it has matured for five years, although the authorities in Great Britain consider that a period of three years is sufficient. 
I should like to know the opinion of the Tariff Board regarding the period of maturation. 
In that case, I suggest that the matter be referred back to the board for its opinion. . If the maturation period for Australian whisky is to be based on the report of the Tariff Board, it would at least be consistent to base the maturation period in respect of imported whisky on the report of that body. I do not know whether  Dr. liargreaves  has suggested that in the case of spirits travelling through the Red Sea in one direction a different system should operate from that which should apply to spirits which travel in the opposite direction. I do not know why the period should be three years for imported whisky and only two years for Australian whisky. 
Then the Tariff Board has. considered the subject. 
The Tariff Board referred to a report by a royal commission. 
It is illogical to quote the opinions of experts when a blow is to be aimed at an Australian industry, and to ignore the same experts when the interests of overseas industries are concerned. The committee is entitled to know on what ground the Government altered its attitude. When we on this side advocated a period of three years for the maturation of Australian whisky the Minister turned a deaf ear to us; but when a supporter of the Government makes a proposal the Minister says that he will accept it subject to certain modifications. I should like to know on whose advice five years was proposed in the first place. The Senate is entitled to know upon what facts the first decision was made, and what justification there is now for the Minister's acceptance of three years instead of five. 
.- The Tariff Board expressed the opinion that an extra year's maturation would not improve the quality of Australian spirit. I admit that there is a diversity of opinion on that subject. Three members of the Tariff Board said that their considered opinion was that whisky made in Australia did not improve if kept three years instead of two years, but the Minister says that an entirely different state of affairs exists in regard to imported spirits. Maturation is the result of evaporation, and it is stated that evaporation is four times as great in Australia as in Scotland. On that basis, it is necessary for whisky made overseas to be of greater age than whisky made here, if the quality is to he approximately the same. The legislature of New Zealand recently altered the period of maturation for all spirits consumed in that dominion to a minimum of five years. That was done at the request of the Whisky Association, a body which represents not only the " group " companies, but also every distillery of any consequence in England, Ireland and Scotland. Seeing that the five-year period was fixed at the request of the Whisky Association, the overseas distillers have no ground for complaint. No question of immature spirits coining from Britain arises, because the distillers there are so jealous of their reputation that they will not allow immature whisky to leave their distilleries. I think that a period of five years is reasonable in the case of imported spirits. 
.  - A period which may be quite satisfactory in New Zealand may not suit Australia because there are no local distilleries in the sister dominion. 
SenatorFoll - Does not the extended period of maturation for imported whisky assist Australian producers? 
I do not know that it does. Section 11 of the Spirits Act of 1906 reads - 
After the 1st day of January,1908 no imported spirits (other than gin, Geneva, Hollands, Schnapps or liqueurs) shall be delivered from the control of the customs for human consumption unless the Collector of Custom's for the State is satisfied that the spirits have been matured by storage in wood for a period of not loss than two years. 
That section was subsequently amended by a proviso which set out that, in the case of imported whisky, the period of maturation should be not less than three years. This bill proposes to repeal that proviso; but why it is done in the way proposed is beyond my comprehension at the moment. It seems to me that it would have been better to make the period three years. I repeat my request to  Senator Sampson  that he be satisfied with a period of three years. 
.- On page 7 of its report, the Tariff Board states that the British royal commission of 1908-9 had stated in its final report dealing with the effect of maturation on various kinds of whisky - 
It must be borne in mind that spirits of different character do not mature with equal rapidity. A very much longer period is required for the maturation of a heavy pot-still whisky, for example, than for a light patent still whisky. 
We are told by the Tariff Board that a a heavy whisky takes four times as long to mature in Britain as in Australia. No doubt  Senator Sampson  had heavy pot-still whisky in mind when he moved his amendment. As the customs authorities draw no distinction between a heavy pot-still whisky and a light patent-still whisky, I suggest a compromise, and ask the Minister to accept a period of four years for all kinds of whisky. 
.  - The Minister administering the act recommends a period of three years. I do not think that a period of five years would be fair to British distillers when we have agreed to a two-year period for the maturation of Australian whisky. 
So great a differentiation has not been made in the past. In my opinion, it is only fair to bring our legislation in this respect into line with that of Britain. The people of the Mother Country do not seem to suffer any serious disabilities from a shorter period of three years, and if the honorable senator will alter his amendment by fixing the period at three years. I shall agree to it. 
Amendment -  by leave  - amended to read - 
Provided that on and after the first day of October, 1935, in the case of imported whisky, the period of maturity by storage in wood shall not be less than three years. 
The Customs Department informs me that this is essential, as some consignments are on the water and some are in bond. 
Amendment, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read asecond time. 
The object of the proposed amendment of section 4 of the Customs Act is to enable the rates of duty prescribed under the British preferential tariff to be applied to products of the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. Except where specific provision has been made in trade agreements with other British dominions, or in relation to certain products of the British non-self-governing colonies, existing customs and tariff legislation specifically limits the British preferential rates of duty to goods produced or manufactured in the United Kingdom. 
The Channel Islands and the Isle of Man are administered under their own laws. For customs purposes they have not been regarded as part of the United Kingdom. In consequence goods imported into the Commonwealth from those islands are legally dutiable at the rates prescribed under the general tariff. 
The tariffs of the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands follow the lines of the tariff of the United Kingdom. Following the introduction of preferential duties by the United Kingdom, as a result of the Ottawa agreement, the islands introduced preferential tariffs, which extend to Empire countries preferential duties almost identical with those granted by the United Kingdom. Since January, 1933, Australia, along with other British countries, has participated in these preferences, which cover many of our principal export commodities. In addition, the Guernsey administration is prepared to recommend the local Parliament to grant a 50 per cent. preference on Empire wines. Imports into Australia from the islands have in the past been limited to small consignments received at irregular intervals. Until two small consignments reached Australia recently no imports had been recorded since 1929. 
As the islands have gratuitously extended their preferential tariffs to Australia, it is desired to reciprocate. This can be done most conveniently by including the Isle of Man and the Channel 
Islands within the meaning of the expression "the United Kingdom." The retrospective application of the amendment will enable the British preferential rates to be applied to the two small shipments which recently reached Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill, as honorable senators are no doubt aware, deals with two entirely different aspects of navigation. The first part, clause 3, has reference to section 7 of the Navigation Act which defines what vessels are deemed to be engaged in the coasting trade. It is proposed to amend this section to permit British overseas vessels of a stipulated tonnage and speed, under certain conditions, to carry passengers coastwise between ports not connected by rail. By the second part of the bill, clause 4, it is proposed to' amend section 231 of the Navigation Act, so that small vessels, trading interstate, and not at present required by the existing law to carry a wireless installation, will be required to be so equipped. Regarding clause 3, let me say at the outset that the amendment proposed in it is designed to afford to Tasmania some relief from the pressure of the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act. 
As honorable senators are all aware, one of the grievances of Tasmania is that the protection afforded by Commonwealth legislation to Australian shipping, by what are known as the coasting trade sections of the Navigation Act, has resulted in serious injury to what was, in times past, a valuable source of revenue, namely, the tourist traffic from the mainland to Hobart. 
Before the war there was no restriction on overseas vessels carrying passengers and cargo between Australian ports. Not much was done in this way, it is true, but from this little, Hobart probably received the most advantage. Every year, in the apple season, big liners made a detour from Sydney to Hobart on their homeward voyages to pick up a cargo of fruit at that port, whence they proceeded to Melbourne to resume their ordinary itineraries. Many tourists, with money to spend, made each year what was known as the " apple trip," that is, they embarked on the overseas steamer at Brisbane or Sydney, proceeded to Hobart and, after a break of journey there, proceeded in some following vessel to Melbourne, whence they returned home either by some incoming overseas liner or by rail or coasting steamer. Other passengers, again, restricted themselves to day excursions while the vessel loaded at Hobart, and were carried on in her to Melbourne without a break of journey. In one way and another these tourists circulated a good deal of money in Tasmania. 
These calls of overseas ships at Hobart for fruit were suspended during the war, and before they were fully resumed and things again became normal the Navigation Act was brought into force, in July, 1921. That ended, for the time being at any rate, the " apple trips ", not because of any express provision in the act, but by reason of the way in which the protective sections worked out in practice. 
Subject to certain exemptions and permits that may be, and have been, granted, and to which I shall shortly refer, the Navigation Act prohibits the carriage of passengers coastwise between Australian ports by ships other than those duly licensed to engage in the coasting trade. 
All ships, British and foreign, locallyowned and overseas, are in one sense on a footing of equality in the matter of obtaining licences. The conditions attached to the grant of the licence - chiefly in respect of compliance with award rates of wages and hours of work, and the Navigation Act requirements as to manning scales and accommodation for crew - are, however, such that in actual practice the local vessels only have complied and become licensed. Overseas owners decided that it would not pay them to adopt these conditions for the short time the ships would be trading on the coast. However, this may have been, the practical result was that the apple boats carried no more tourists to Hobart. Whether due to this cause alone, or, as is more probable, to the post-war depression conditions, the number of visitors to Hobart greatly decreased. The people of Hobart attributed the falling away almost wholly to theoperations of the Navigation Act. They pointed out that the one licensed ship running between Sydney and Hobart compared most unfavorably with the large overseas liners, and was in point of size, speed and appointments, neither attractive to tourists nor adequate to accommodate the numbers which previously travelled. 
Both. At first it was the  Riverina,  but later the  Zealandia. 
In 1926, to meet, as far as was then thought possible, the demand for readmittance of the overseas liners into the tourist trade, the Navigation Act was amended by the insertion in section 286 of the following provision :  - (6.) Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Governor-General that the tourist traffic between any ports in the Commonwealth or in the territories under the authority of the Commonwealth is being injured or retarded, and the Governor-General is satisfied that it is desirable that unlicensed ships be allowed to engage in the trade, he may, by notice published in the  Gazette,  grant permission to unlicensed British ships of such size and speed as are specified in the notice to engage in the carriage of passengers between those ports subject to such conditions (if any) and for such period as is set out in the notice. 
Under this new provision, orders in council were issued, for several successsive years, permitting British ships of not less than 10,000 tons gross register, and a speed of fifteen knots - subsequently reduced to fourteen knots - to carry passengers to and from Hobart during the tourist season, without bringing themselves within the scope of the coasting trade provisions of the act. For some reason of their own, however, the overseas lines declined to avail themselves of the concession, and it was not until December, 1932, that, by agreement among themselves, the companies concerned commenced booking tourists for  the Hobart run. There was an immediate response by the public and during that summer season some 4,000 passengers were taken from the mainland ports of Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne to Hobart by the overseas ships alone. For the next following tourist season, ended on the 31st May last, the number  of  passengers carried to Hobart from the mainland, by overseas vessels, under the exemption, was approximately 3,500. For the current tourist season, the position so far is satisfactory, although it is not expected that the number of passengers carried to Tasmania by the overseas vessels will equal that  of  either  of the two previous  seasons. 
A very interesting feature of this revival of tourist traffic is that, contrary to the anticipations of the owners of local steamers, the passenger traffic by the licensed vessels has actually increased since the overseas British ships came into the trade, under the exemptions. It is worthy of note, too, that the number of passengers travelling from Tasmania to the mainland ports of Sydney and Melbourne by licensed steamers is considerably greater than the numbers sailing by licensed vessels from those ports. Here are the figures showing the traffic by the Australian-owned licensed ships during 1931-32, when the overseas vessels did not engage in the tourist traffic, and for the two following seasons, when they did- 
These figures show conclusively that the local licensed ships were not injured by the participation in the tourist traffic by the overseas liners, but were actually benefited by it. 
Two things are clear. In the first place, as compared with 1931-32, when the overseas boats did not carry tourists, there was, in 1932-33, an increase of 3,561 and in the following season an increase of no les? than 14,917, or 27 per cent., in the number of passengers carried both ways by the Australian-owned licensed ships. 
Secondly - and this is a very significant point - during both the seasons in which the overseas ships carried tourists, the local ships conveyed back to the mainland ports more passengers than they had taken over to Tasmania. The excesses in the two seasons were, in round figures, 1,500 in the first season, and 3,700 in the latter. The explanation is, of course, that tourists taken in overseas ships to Hobart stayed there for a holiday, returning later to their homes by local liners. This is a condition likely to continue, and it is confidently believed, therefore, that the exemption of overseas liners in respect of the tourist traffic provided in the bill will be of considerable and lasting advantage to the Australian shipping industry. 
 In assessing the value to Tasmania of these exemptions to overseas liners it is necessary to remember also that a new travel feature, adverse to the Tasmanian interests, has been developed during recent years in the form of cruises from Australian ports by. some of the largest and latest of the overseas liners to New Zealand, Noumea, Norfolk Island, Suva, Papua and New Guinea, all of which, having the element of novelty, are strongly competitive with the Tasmanian tourist business. Tasmania has undoubtedly done remarkably well, not only to hold the traffic, but actually to increase it, as she has done, in the face of such competition. That she has been able to do so is directly due, without doubt, to the exemptions granted. The fact that it is now possible to visit the State in fast and commodious liners contributes greatly to the attractiveness of the trip, and, so long as facilities to do so are ensured, there is every reason to hope for a progressively increasing tourist business. 
But the people of Tasmania, realizing, as they do, the benefits which have accrued from the operation of the exemptions, are desirous that the concession, granted at present by executive act only from season to season, should not depend upon the policy of the administration of the day, but should be given a statutory basis so that it could be withdrawn  only by specific amendment of the Navigation Act, agreed to by Parliament. In order, too, that Tasmanian interests may be encouraged to improve and develop tlie attractions of the island, including its hotel and other accommodation, it is essential, it is contended, that there shall be some guarantee of not only adequate, but also permanent and attractive, shipping facilities for their visitors. Business people cannot be expected to go to heavy expense in improving accommodation, nor the State Government to spend money in the provision of roads to the scenic beauties of the State, unless there is some assurance of an adequate return, necessarily spread over a lengthy period. 
Successive governments, during the thirteen years the Navigation Act has been in operation, have considered the question of giving relief. The difficulty in the way, however, lies in section 99 of the Constitution, which provides - 
The Commonwealth shall not. by any law, or regulation of trade, commerce or revenue, give preference to one State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof. 
With a view to overcoming this difficulty proposals have been made from time to time for amendments of the act which, it was suggested, would have the effect, without violating section 99, of exempting the passenger traffic between Tasmania and the mainland ports from the coasting trade provisions of the act. On each occasion, however, the legal advice supplied to the Government has been that, as the condition, whatever it may have been, laid down in each case as precedent to exemption, was clearly applicable only to communication between ports in Tasmania, on the one hand, and those of the other States, on the other, and excluded traffic between any two mainland ports or States, the proposed provision could not but be regarded as infringing section 99. Further consideration has recently been given to the matter, with a view to ascertaining whether the constitutional difficulty could be overcome by some provision, of wider scope, which, while affording to Tasmania the relief desired, would, at the same time, by reason of its more general application, benefit other similarly isolated parts of the Common- wealth, and thus be free from any possible objection of discrimination or preference in favour of a single State. ' 
The present bill is the result. By the amendment of section 7 of the principal act, as proposed, it is hoped not only to remove the disabilities that have injured the tourist traffic to Hobart and retarded its development, but also to confer corresponding advantages as regards passenger traffic on. the outlying portions of the Commonwealth similarly cut off from the ordinary means of land communication with the more populated parts. This objective, it is believed, can be achieved without infringement of the Constitution. In this connexion, it is worthy of note that constitutional authorities, in considering the real import of the words "give preference", as they appear in section 99, have expressed the view that, in deciding what is and what is not a preference, section 99 should be construed liberally, with especial reference to the evil which it is intended to prevent, namely, arbitrary and prejudicial discriminations between States or localities, and that, in determining what constitutes equality of treatment, recognition should be given to the practical necessities of the case. In this view, if the difference of incidence grows out of the" dissimilarity of circumstances of one State or locality as compared with another, or if it is based on recognized and reasonable principles of administration, it is not a " preference " within the Constitution. 
The view of the Government and its advisers is that the present bill .is not open to any suggestion of preference to any one State or part thereof. It covers any two ports in the Commonwealth " not connected by rail ". Thus, in addition to permitting the carriage, by British ships of the class specified, of passengers from any Tasmanian port to the mainland and  vice verm,  travel by them would also be permissible between any mainland or Tasmanian port and any other such place wholly dependent on sea communication, such as Kingscote, on Kangaroo Island, and Lord Howe Island, which is a portion of New South Wales. The exemption would have application also to travel between mainland ports in the northern parts of the continent. The northern railhead in 
Western Australia is at Geraldton, and in Queensland, at Cairns. Between these ports there are some 2,700 miles of coastline with ports which have no rail connexion with any other ports in Australia. Under the proposed amendment, therefore, passengers might also be carried without restrictions between and to and from any ports in that area by any unlicensed British ships of the stipulated tonnage and speed, such, for example, as the new Blue Star liners, now being placed in the chilled beef trade between Australia and the United Kingdom, via Torres Strait. With respect to the ports along the coast mentioned, between Geraldton and Cairns, namely, the north-west ports of Western Australia, Darwin, and Thursday Island, travel to and fromthese places by unlicensed British ships is already allowed - so far as Darwin is concerned, under exemption, and, as regards the other ports, by means of continuing permits. 
It may bo objected, and it is admitted that it would be theoretically correct, that the proposed amendment would make it possible for unlicensed ships to compete in the passenger trade between Melbourne and the northern ports of Tasmania, already well catered for by local licensed steamers. In actual practice, however, the depth of water in the Tamar restricts the shipping to Launceston to relatively shallow-draught vessels. Overseas vessels call at the lower Tamar ports - Beauty Point and Bell Bay - or at Burnie, in the north-west, at very infrequent intervals. The large passenger liners never do so, and the number of passengers carried by the cargo steamers calling, if any, would never amount to more than a score or so, at most, in a year. It may be objected that the proposed amendment would permit vessels of the Eastern and Australia line, the  Nellore, Tanda,  and  Nankin,  which are manned by coloured labour, and which call at Hobart at monthly intervals, to enter into unfair competition between Hobart and Sydney with the licensed vessel  Zealandia.  There is no danger of this, as the vessels in question are of only 7,000 tons gross register, and would accordingly, as being under the 10,000 tons minimum prescribed, be excluded from the exemption. 
Clause 3 of the bill, as drawn, is considered to be free from constitutional objections; it will afford to Tasmania that guarantee as to tourist shipping facilities which they reasonably seek; it will, as experience has demonstrated, have no adverse effect on local shipping, but will rather benefit it, and it will be the means of improving the facilities for travel along our northern coast-line. The question is, moreover, a non-political one, as all parties are united in a desire to help Tasmania and the settlers in the more distant parts of the continent, more especially where it can be done, as in this case, without injury to local interests. I desire, however, to make it plain, on behalf of the Government, that the amendment proposed by the bill is designed primarily to remedy the disabilities suffered by Tasmania in the matter of her tourist traffic, and if it is found at any time that any considerable abuse is introduced - by such means, for example, as alterations of itineraries for the purpose of bringing ships under the exemption and not for legitimate trade purposes - and that consequently our shipping interests are being injured in respect of their trade between mainland ports, consideration may have to be given to the question of repealing the provision, leaving the matter of the tourist traffic to be dealt with from season to season, as hitherto, by exemption order under section 286. This section is being left in the act, available for the purpose. 
I turn now to the second part of the bill, clause 4, which relates to the provision of wireless telegraphy apparatus on small ships, that is, on ships not already required by the existing law to be so equipped. The Navigation Act. as it now stands, requires the installation of wireless and the carrying of a certificated operator on the following classes of ships :  - 
Passenger ships, i.e., ships carrying more than twelve passengers, irrespective of tonnage; and 
other ships of 1,600 tons gross tonnage and upwards. 
In recent years, several small cargo steamers under 1,600 tons, and conse- quently not provided with wireless, have disappeared at sea, with a. heavy loss of life. As in most of these cases, the disappearances have occurred in times of storm, the presumption is that the vessels were overwhelmed by the seas and foundered, but, being without wireless, and there being no survivors, no definite information is available as to the actual cause of loss. These vessels were, moreover, not able to send out the distress call asking for assistance. Recent examples are the SS.  Christina Fraser,  a collier of 716 tons gross, which disappeared off Gabo Island on the 23rd Tune, 1933, and the SS.  Coramba,  an intra-state trader, running between Melbourne and Port Fairy, which went down in the abnormally heavy weather of the 30th' November last. The disappearance of the vessels was investigated by courts of marine inquiry constituted, in the case of the  Christina Fraser,  under the Commonwealth Navigation Act, and, in the case of the  Coramba,  under the Marine Act of Victoria. In each case, the court added to its finding a rider to the effect that, in its opinion, all sea-going vessels should be equipped with wireless apparatus. That public opinion is definitely in favour of such a course is evidenced by the fact that, following on the loss of the  Coramba,  the Victorian branch of the Seamen's Union announced that its members would refuse to man sea-going vessels which did not carry wireless, and the press, almost without exception, gave support to the seamen in the attitude adopted. 
In December last a regulation was issued under the Navigation Act requiring that, on and after a given date, every sea-going steamship not already required to be equipped with wireless should carry an efficient apparatus of an approved type which, when put in operation, would automatically send out, in the Morse code, wireless signals prescribed to be used for a ship in distress, together with the ship's name and  position.  Such apparatus did not require the attendance of a skilled operator. This requirement, it may be added, represented the utmost that could be done without an amendment of the Navigation Act. The maritime organizations, representing officers and seamen on coastal vessels, strongly urged, however, that an automatic apparatus was not sufficient, and requested that, in all cases, a qualified wireless operator be carried. The Minister for Health and Repatriation  (Mr. Hughes)  received deputations from the maritime organizations and the shipowners, and, after conference with both parties, has prepared a scheme which the amendment contained in the bill is designed to implement. 
The salient points of the scheme are as follows: All steamships engaged in the interstate trade, and not already required to carry wireless, are to be provided with a wireless telegraph installation having the same range, namely, 100 miles, as the standard installation on the larger ships. The installation, however, is to be of a modified and cheaper type. For apparatus the use of which is restricted to distress signals and communications consequent thereon, the cost of each installation to the owners will, it is understood, be in the neighbourhood of £91 per annum. Where provision is made for the sending of other messages, the cost will be up to about £125 per annum. The costs mentioned cover both rental and maintenance. In the case of vessels of 750 to 1,600 tons gross, the installation is to be in charge of a. certificated wireless operator, whilst on vessels of under 750 tons gross, it will be attended to by an officer or member of the crew holding a " limited " certificate as " wireless signaller ", issued by the PostmasterGeneral's Department. The wireless signaller, who will be the mate or a member of the crew, will be qualified both to send and receive by Morse on the installation. In cases where a wireless signaller is carried, an automatic distress sender of an approved type, capable of automatically sending out, in the Morse code, wireless signals prescribed to be used for a ship in distress, together with the ship's name and position, is to form part of the installation. In cases where it is found impracticable to accommodate an operator on an existing vessel of between 750 and 1,600 tons gross, power will be given to exempt the vessel from the requirements to carry an operator, and to permit, in lieu, the carrying of a wireless signaller. Before, however, any ship is so exempted from the carrying of an operator, it is proposed that the 
Minister shall refer the matter to a committee of advice of three persons appointed under the Navigation Act, to investigate and make a recommendation. Such a committee of advice will consist of the Director, or Deputy Director, of Navigation, who will be chairman, a representative of the ship-owner, and a representative of the maritime organizations. Power will be given for the exemption of a ship while in tow of another vessel fitted with wireless, or trading between ports not more than 25 miles apart, or proceeding on a single voyage. 
The owners of certain vessels on the coast, which are not now required to carry wireless, have voluntarily provided installations on their vessels. Certain steamers, running between Melbourne and Brisbane, form an example. Each has a wireless installation; but, instead of an operator, an additional mate, a third mate, who attends to the wireless, is carried. In such cases, where it can be shown that the wireless installation satisfactorily fulfils the safety requirements, it will be regarded as acceptable. 
The provisions outlined will not apply to ships trading on the river Murray, or, for the present, at any rate, to small sailing vessels. There is considerable doubt, it may be explained, as to whether wireless could be efficiently applied to small sailing vessels, where, among other disadvantages, the aerial would be very short and of little height above the water. 
Commonwealth law, it will be realized, can cover only such ships as are engaged in interstate or overseas trade. Consequently, it can have no application to the great majority of the small ships trading on the coast,, which, being intrastate traders, are subject to State law. A communication has, therefore, been addressed to the Premiers of all the States urging that, in respect of vessels which come within their respective jurisdictions, a scheme not less efficient than that which I have described should be adopted, and, in the interests of safety of life at sea, given legislative effect as early as possible. In several of the States the local authorities are awaiting the passage of this bill in order that the federal requirements may be known. There is reason to believe that most, if not all, of the States will then take action to impose similar requirements on the shipping coming under their control. 
I ask honorable senators to facilitate the passage of the bill, so that the Tasmanian interests concerned may be encouraged, by an assurance of some degree of permanency of the exemption, to undertake additions and improvements to the existing facilities for tourists. 
There is nothing contentious whatever in clause 4. The amendment contained in that clause, as I have already indicated, has the support of all sections of thecommunity.Whilst it is impossible to say whether or not any of the crew of either the  Coramba or  the  Christina Fraser  could have been saved if those vessels had carried wireless, there can be no question that the use of wireless has greatly reduced the hazards of seafaring life. In the interests of our seamen, and of safety of life at sea generally, I hope honorable senators will co-operate in ensuring the speedy passage of the bill. Until this bill becomes law, there will be no power to require the owners of the small ships concerned to install wireless' on their vessels. Even after the bill has been passed by Parliament, the manufacturers of wireless installations will require, I am informed, about twelve weeks in which to provide and install the necessary equipment. Naturally ship-owners will not order wireless equipment of the type required, nor will manufacturers build it, until they are satisfied that the bill will become law. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
[5.45]. - I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Although  Senator Reid,  who did not seek re-election last year, has not yet reached the end of his term, I understand that this is the last occasion on which he will be present at the sittings of the Senate. I should like, therefore, to express the regret which we all feel at his departure from us. "We trust that in his well-earned retirement from political life the honorable senator  may be blessed with, good health and good fortune. He richly deserves all the blessings that should be the reward of a life spent in the service of the people, and we trust that he may be richly endowed with, and long spared, to enjoy them. In the future deliberations of this chamber the honorable senator will be very much missed. He leaves with our cordial good wishes. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear ! 

 .- Senator Reid, unlike myself, is retiring voluntarily from the Senate. Very shortly I am to go into compulsory retirement; but, whichever way we go it is probable that we shall meet again as we pass down the road of life and be able to greet each other with all the cordiality that has marked our long association.  Senator Reid  has spent many years in the service of his country and, judging from his present appearance, it will be a very long while before he receives the call to cross the River. For many years he was prominent in the industrial life of Australia. In the course of time our views may have differed; but when it comes to a show down no bitterness exists. I hope the honorable senator will spend a pleasant and happy retirement. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I find myself in complete accord with the views expressed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  concerning  Senator Reid.  It has been said by an Australian poet that " All the joy goes out of life as old friends go". While that aphorism may not be applicable literally to the present occasion, it expresses the pangs which we experience in parting with an old, valued and tried friend. My personal acquaintance with  Senator Reid  extends over a period of 30 years. The starting point of his activities in public life goes back much further than that - so much further that it is almost lost in the twilight of memory. From the very first he has always been in the firing line, and his record is one that quite a number of his present-day confreres as well as the generations that will follow will always applaud and envy. I recall an incident that occurred some years ago in Queensland which illustrates the independent spirit that has always marked the honorable senator's public service. It was really refreshing. A train in which we were travelling drew up at a crowded country platform, and a poor country man tried, as many might do, to enter a carriage which had been reserved by the Queensland Government for a party of which  Senator Reid  and I were members. The honorable senator, with native independence, brushed aside all formalities, despite the presence of a large number of his constituents, expostulated with the man, and told him in no uncertain terms that he had no right to enter that carriage. I mention that incident merely to show the magnificent spirit of independence which the honorable senator possesses. He did not go out. of his way to treat that man as other than an ordinary person ; he spoke simply as one citizen would speak to another. That incident, which I shall never forget, is an illustration of what, in my opinion, should be the relationship between public men on the one hand and electors on the other. The fact that he acted as he did speaks volumes not only for the honorable senator, but also for the electors of Queensland who have returned him as a member of the Senate for so many years. The honorable senator is a man of high character, and a much appreciated citizen of Queensland.  His  is an honoured name. We regret his retirement, but trust that he will long be spared to enjoy the fruits of a well spent public life. 
.- Although I informed the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  and some of my friends' in this chamber that I did not propose to attend any further sitting of the Senate after to-day, I neither expected nor desired any public reference to my retirement. I thank the Leader of the Government, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  and  Mr. President,  all of whom are friends of mine of many years standing, for the kind things they have said concerning me. It is pleasing to have the good wishes of the Senate, and to hear the appreciative remarks made concerning my public life. I have had a long and fairly strenuous public life, but I am glad to say that I am still in good health and that my retirement is not duo to considerations of health. I trust that I shall live long enough to be able still further to work in the interests of the State of Queensland and Australia generally. If there is work for me to do I shall always be willing to devote my energies to it. In many respects it is with regret that I am retiring from the Senate; but there conies to every man a time when he must determine what is the wisest course to pursue. I feel that it is wise to retire while I am in good health so thatI may enjoy in my leisure what life has to offer. I appreciate the good wishes that have been expressed, and in bidding " good-bye " to the Senate I say to all my fellow senators " Godbless you ". 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been drawn to the following paragraph which appeared in to-day's issue of the  Sydney Morning Herald :  - 
The editorial- 
This refers to an editorial which appeared in the  Daily Herald,  London - is based on a statement by the  Daily Herald's  political correspondent, that a serious effort will be made during the Jubilee talks with dominions statesmen to secure agreement to a big scheme to send thousands of unemployed overseas. The correspondent affirmed that  Mr. Lyons  is ready to make substantial concessions with a view to admitting more immigrants if the Commonwealth's share of the British market is considerably increased. 
If the Loader of the Senate has read that statement, can he furnish any information to the Senate with reaped to the proposal! It is particularly interesting from the point of view of the Australian public. 
I ask you,  Mr. President,  the following question in relation to the Standing Orders: - In view of Australian newspaper reports, which stated that there was no conflict of international political interests as between England and Soviet Russia, is it the intention of honorable senators of the United Australia party and the Country party supporting the Lyons-Page Government, when addressing the chair, to call you " Comrade " Lynch ? 
The  honorable  senator prefaced his question with a statement that it related to .the Standing Orders, but then went on to say something about the United Australia party. The Standing Orders relating to the asking of questions are quite clear. The honorable senator is supposed to have some knowledge of them and should know that he is not entitled to ask a fellow senator - which designation includes myself - other than a Minister, a question that does not relate to a bill, motion, or other matter connected with the business of the Senate of which such senator has  charge.  As the subject to which he referred does not; come within that category I cannot furnish him with any information. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior whether the conference which it was reported in the press would be held between the Minister and the Government of South Australia with respect to the opposition of the State Government to the proposal of the Commonwealth to construct a line of railway from Red Hill to Port Augusta has yet been held, and if so, can he say if there is n possibility of that work being put  in  hand in the near future? 
In the event of the State Government persisting in its objections to the construction of the proposed line, will the Commonwealth Government carry out the work in the terms of the agreement made some years ago ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The intentions of the Government will be fully sot' out in the bill when it reaches the Senate. 
In connexion  wis  this matter, will the Minister consult with those who are most vitally concerned in the solution of the unemployment problem in South Australia - the interests of the minority in the recent State election - and if the State Government persists in its present attitude, will the Commonwealth Government carry out this most desirable project in the interests of the unemployed? 
In the event of the South Australian Government baulking the Commonwealth Government in its proposal to construct a line of railway from Red Hill to Port Augusta, will the Government place on tho State authorities the responsibility of putting forward some other scheme for the relief of unemployment in South Australia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It is not usual to answer hypothetical questions. 
On the 28th March,  Senator Johnston  asked the following questions,  upon notice: - 
What is the reason for the delay in erecting the promised new studio in Perth for broadcasting station 6WF? 
When is it expected that the construction of the building will be commenced? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator that, upon his inquiries being brought to the notice of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, advice has been received from that body to the effect that the commission has plans under consideration, and intends to proceed with the erection of the studio at Perth as soon as it is satisfied with the plans. 
I direct the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce to the following report, which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on the 1st April :  - 
I have not noticed the paragraph, but inquiries will be made into the matter mentioned in it. 
I wrote to the Acting Attorney-General some time ago, and he informed me that certain information which I was seeking was not obtainable from his department, but from that of the Postmaster-General. He said that he would ask his colleague to write to me some weeks ago, but I have not yet received the information. The question related to the prevention of the transmission of a certain newspaper through the post? 
-I cannot recollect having received a communication on the subject referred to, but if the honorable senator repeats his question I shall obtain the information for him. 
In view of the statement made by the Prime Minister and others that it is proposed to alter the Electoral Act, with a view to changing the manner of representation in the Senate, will the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior inform honorable senators when the report regarding that important matter will be available ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.There is no such report. The matter has not yet received the full consideration of the Government. 
Has the Minister in charge of Development yet received from Wyndham the report which he promised to obtain on the De Raeve process for the treatment of beef?' 
If I have been lax in that matter, I apologize to the honorable senator, but I was under the impression that the information had been supplied to him. If not, I shall see that a copy of the report is sent to him. 
Does the Minister in charge of Development recollect that last year he promised to give honorable senators an opportunity to read the report submitted by  Mr. Rogers  as the result of his trip abroad? Is the Minister now prepared to furnish a copy of that report ? 

 - Mr. Rogers has not yet returned to Australia. Unfortunately, I felt compelled to send him to England to confer with Messrs. Conacher and Crichton, who have been here, and are entitled to certain technical information. On his return, I shall furnish such part of the report as is not confidential, and I do not anticipate that I shall have to withhold any of it. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been called to the following press statement published in the Sydney  Telegraph  of the 3rd April :  - 
In view of the report tabled in the other branch of the legislature last night on the subject of mining in the Northern Territory, in which serious charges are made in certain directions, and having regard to the desirability of encouraging capital to be invested there and the fact that the territory has genuine deposits of gold, does the Government intend so to amend the mining regulations and ordinances in the territory as to ensure that the investing public will be adequately protected? 
Did the Leader of the Senate notice in the press a few days ago that Argentina had defaulted in regard to its interest payments to Great Britain, whereas Australia has never defaulted? Will the Government use this fact as a means of securing fair treatment of Australian meat exported to the Old Country?  

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I think that the honorable senator has read from a press report of a statement made in London by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons). 
Is the PostmasterGeneral aware of the fact that, in some of the States, letter carriers are compelled to wear thick blue serge uniforms, whereas they would be much more comfortable and better able to do their work in a light khaki twill suit? 
This is a matter to which I have given some consideration, and an investigation of it is being made by the department. I realize, with the honorable senator, that in the warmer parts of Australia some such provision should be made, and I shall endeavour to inaugurate it. 
Is there any truth in the statement that, as a result of the recent air conference in Australia,  there  is a likelihood of some of the stopping places in western Queensland, which, have been largely instrumental in maintaining the service, being cut out? 
The overseas air conference comes under the Civil Aviation Branch of the Department of Defence. If the honorable senator will place his question on the notice-paper, it shall be brought under the notice of the Minister for Defence. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior recognize the fact that, at the present time, there is no park in Canberra that may be used by residents for the purposes of rest and refreshment. Has he been informed that - 
Sport is amply catered for; there are rose gardens) street plantations and other planted areas, but there is no place that may be termed a retreat, such as may be found in other cities? 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - Order! The honorable senator must put his question briefly. Questions should be put to elicit information, not to give it. 
This is a statement of fact which I ask the Minister to consider. 2. The Acton nursery, which is no longer used for its original purpose, has an area of ten acres. It is planted with a wonderful collection of trees and contains specimens of conifers, poplars, and other varieties which will compare favorably with anything of the kind in Australia ? 
It has been suggested that lawns might be laid down in this area between the tree groups, and that seats might be placed in suitable positions, and a bandstand might be erected, and that here the Canberra City Band might give recitals, and men, women and children might find quiet pleasure in beautiful surroundings? 
The cost of providing this benefit to the people would be comparatively small ? 
Order! 
[3.23]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the following joint address be presented to  His  Majesty the King. 
To the King's Most Excellent Majesty: 
.- I second the motion. I cannot add any words to those of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  which would express more eloquently the sentiments of the people of this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In connexion with moneys advanced to the State of Western Australia for public works to be carried out in that State - 
Is it a fact that the State Government is supplying timber required for such works from its own mills and yards without previously inviting public tenders for the same? 
If so, will the Commonwealth Government make representations to the State Government with a view to public tenders being invited for the supply of timber so that private enterprise may be afforded an opportunity of participating in the expenditure? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Acting Prime Minister has supplied the f ollowing answers :  - 
Yes. 
The grants of money referred to are made by the Commonwealth to the States for the purpose of assisting them in the relief of unemployment, and the Commonwealth Government feels that it could not, under the guise of such assistance, interfere with the internal policy of a State government. It is considered that this is a matter in connexion with which the State government is responsible to the electors of the State concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister  for Defence,  upon notice- - 
In view of the scattered nature of the population in some parts of Australia, the grunt distances between centres, and the absence of adequate means of communication, is it  ti  ot in the interests of the public that thu utmost encouragement should be given to the establishment of commercial aircraft lines? 
Is it a fact that under the terms of the Transport Co-ordination Act, passed last year by the Parliament of Western Australia, aircraft lines may be taxed up to 10 per centum on the gross earnings of their commercial operations ? 
Will thu Commonwealth Government consider the advisability of making representations to the Government of Western Australia with a view to removing such restrictions on the development of a most valuable and essential service? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
It is agreed that in the interests of the public encouragement as far as practicable should bc given to the establishment of commercial aircraft linos within the Commonwealth. 
Section 14 of the Western Australian Transport Co-ordination Act 1933 provides that there shall be payable for an aircraft licence under that Act a fee determined by the State Transport Board based on the earnings of the vehicle, but such fee shall not be greater than 0 per cent, of the gross earnings of the vehicle as assessed by the board, and in assessing such gross earnings the amount of any subsidy paid for an aerial service is not taken into consideration. 
The Commonwealth Government has this matter under consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to the publication of an article in the  Saturday Review  written by Admiral Mark Kerr, C.B., formerly  Deputy  Chief of the British Air Staff, and Major-General in the Royal Air Staff, advocating the establishment of an air naval base in the Kimberley district of Western Australia, in order to protect the Far East and the Commonwealth? 
If so, will this article receive the consideration of the Government, in connexion with its defence policy? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Defence has furnished the following replies: - 1 and 2. The attention of the Government had not previously been drawn to this article, but it will receive full consideration. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received requests from the Government of Western Australia for increased assistance to the pearling industry? 
What decision has been arrived at in the matter ? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What was the average price of wheat, f.o.r., at principal Australian ports during the months of December, January, February, and March last? 
The information is being obtained, and will be furnished to the honorable senator later. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
What amount of money has been allotted for works by his department in Victoria? 
When is the work to start? 
What number of men is it estimated will be employed? 
I take it that the honorable senator's questions relate only to the amounts provided under the relief measure passed by the Senate last week. The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
£15,000. 
The works will be started as expeditiously as possible after .the expenditure has been authorized. 
Approximately 45 men, for about twelve weeks. 
[3.35]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent my moving forthwith the following motion - That the bill be now read a second time. 
I realize that I am taking a somewhat unusual course; but I ask the Senate to agree to the motion, because it is probable that both Houses of the Parliament will meet for only a few days more before adjourning. For that reason the- hill is being introduced in the Senate, and I am anxious that it shall pass both Houses before the adjournment, so that the changes contemplated by it can be made. Those changes will be made by ordinance, not by the bill itself; but, unless the act is amended, it will not be possible to amend the existing ordinances in the direction desired by the people of Norfolk Island. If this motion is carried, I shall move the second reading immediately, after which no objection will be raised by the Government if any honorable senator desires to move the adjournment of the debate. I realize that honorable senators have not yet seen the bill. Should the debate be adjourned to-day; the remaining stages could be taken tomorrow. 
There being an absolute majority of the whole Senate present, and no voice being raised in tha negative, I declare the motion  carried. 
[3.36]. - I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I desire to take the opportunity afforded by the second reading of this small bill to make a statement which, I hope, will increase the interest of honorable senators in Norfolk Island and the people there. I think that that is necessary, because, when in Norfolk Island recently, I found that the residents were generally of the opinion that the people of the Commonwealth are not interested in them, and regard them more or less as poor relations whose existence is of little importance. Should anything that I may say this afternoon awaken the interest of honorable senators, and of honorable members of the House of Representatives, in Norfolk Island and its people, I shall feel that I have achieved my object. If, therefore, my remarks are somewhat lengthy on such a small bill, T hope that honorable senators will realize that they are not so much in explanation of the bill itself as of what will follow its enactment. In order to get the right perspective, I desire, first, to set out the position of Norfolk Island as a part of the Commonwealth. 
Norfolk Island was accepted as a territory under the authority of the Commonwealth by the Norfolk Island Act 1913, which came into operation on 1st July, 1914. As a result of inquiries made by me as the Minister in Charge of Territories and of investigations made by me during my recent visit to the territory, it is proposed that certain alterations be made in the form of administration of the territory. A good deal of dissatisfaction which exists on the island, at the present time, arises from the fact that residents feel that they have little or no voice in the control of local affairs. The affairs of the territory are controlled locally by an Administrator appointed by the Governor-General, and there is an executive council comprised of six elected members and six members appointed by the Administrator. The Administrator is an ex-officio member of the council and presides at meetings at which he attends and has an ordinary vote and a casting vote when necessary. The council is constituted annually, and the law requires that the Administrator attend the first meeting of each council and such meeting shall elect a member of the council to be president. 
Six members of the council are nominated by the Administrator and another six are elected, and the Administrator has a deliberative as well as a casting vote. The powers of the council are practically limited to the maintenance of roads and the eradication of noxious weeds. It has been found that the executive council is not working satisfactorily and that, as at present constituted, it is doubtful whether it can function effectively for the good of the island. To remedy the present state of affairs and to give the people a real voice in local affairs, it is proposed that the executive council be replaced by a new body to be constituted as an advisory council to consist of eight elected members. The advisory council will have the right to advise the Administrator, and through him, the Minister, on all local matters such as roads, public works, health, education, noxious weeds, afforestation, agriculture, fishing, marketing, &amp;c. Ordinances are to bc submitted to the advisory council for an expression of their views thereon. At present the main function of the executive council is the maintenance of roads on the island. It is proposed that the control and carrying out of all public works, including roads, be vested in the Administrator and that the expenditure of public moneys thereon be in the hands of the Administrator, who will, as far as practicable, consult the advisory council in regard thereto. To enable effect to be given to these proposals, an amendment of the Norfolk Island Act 1913 will be necessary and the bill before the Senate, cited as the Norfolk Island Act 1935, has been brought down for the purpose, and also to enable the law regarding the supply of liquor on the island to be tightened up. 
Section 6 of the present act reads as follows : - 
The executive council of Norfolk Island, as existing at the commencement of . this  act,  shall continue in existence, but may be altered or abolished by ordinance made in pursuance of this act. 
It is proposed that this clause be repealed and replaced by a provision for the establishment of an advisory council for Norfolk Island to advise the Administrator in relation to any matter affecting the island. 
Clause 8 of the present act provides that the Governor-General may make ordinances for the peace, order and good government of Norfolk Island, such ordinances to come into force at a time to be fixed by the Governor-General not being before the date of their publication in Norfolk Island. There is provision for ordinances to be laid before both Houses of Parliament within 30 days of the making, and either House of Parliament, by resolution, may disallow an ordinance or any part of it. It is proposed that these provisions shall remain and that an addition shall be made to the act, providing that a copy of a proposed ordinance shall be submitted to the advisory council which will be allowed 30 days in which to make any representations or suggestions in regard thereto. Such representations and suggestions are to be submitted to the Administrator, who will be required to transmit them to the Minister with his observations thereon. The representations of the advisory council and the Administrator's observations will be taken into consideration before the ordinance is finally made. 
Power is to be reserved to the GovernorGeneral to make any ordinance before submission to the council in any case of urgency or for any special reason, such ordinance to be submitted later to the council. Clause 5 is necessary for drafting purposes. Section 16 of the present act reads as follows : - 
The manufacture, or, except in accordance with the provisions of the laws at present in force in Norfolk Island, the sale or supply of alcoholic liquor is prohibited. 
This section prevents an alteration being made to the law relating to the control of alcoholic liquor as it was in force when the act commenced on 1st July, 1914. The present law has been found inadequate effectively to regulate and control liquor traffic, particularly in relation to the sale of home brewed liquor of a high percentage of proof spirit. The amended provision is designed more effectively to control the supply of alcoholic liquor and to enable penalties to be imposed on delinquents. The residents of Norfolk Island are a fine type of law-abiding people, and I am not suggesting that a great majority of them desire to evade the liquor laws at present in force on the island. It is a small minority which is evading the law and causing a nuisance to a great majority of the people. We are proposing to introduce into Norfolk Island a law at present in force in Australia, which provides in certain cases that not only the illegal seller but also the illegal purchaser of alcoholic liquor shall be punished. 
I should like now to give honorable senators some information concerning this very interesting territory. Norfolk Island is situated about 900 miles to the north-east of Sydney and about 400 miles to the north of New Zealand. The island is about five miles in length and three miles in breadth with a circumference of 30 miles and an area of 8,528 acres. It has a population of about 1,198, of whom about 800 are adults. Of the adult population, 400 are descendants of the Pitcairn Islanders who were transferred to the island in 1856; of the remainder of the present adult population, 140 come from New Zealand, 106 from Australia and 166 from other parts. The control of the territory was transferred from the State of New South Wales to the Commonwealth Government on 1st July, 1914, when the Norfolk Island Act 1913 came into operation. The main provisions of the act are: - 
The laws in force at the date of commencement of the act to continue in force. 
Acts of the Parliament of the Commonwealth not to be in force in Norfolk Island, unless expressed to extend thereto. 
The Governor-General to make ordinances for the peace, order and good government of the territory. 
Duties of customs not to be chargeable in certain circumstances on goods imported into Australia from Norfolk Island. 
The manufacture, or, except in accordance with the provisions of the law in force in Norfolk Island on 1st July, 1914, the sale or supply of alcoholic liquor is prohibited. 
An annual grant is made by the Commonwealth towards the expenses of administration. From 1st July, 1914, to date, the aggregate amount of such grants has been £68,500. A subsidy is paid by the Commonwealth Government for the maintenance of a regular shipping service between the island and Australia. 
The vessels which visit Norfolk Island also call at the New Hebrides and Lord Howe Island. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.There is one about every three weeks. 
In 1925-1926, the exports from the Territory were valued at £6,156. In the following year they were valued at £13,578, and in the subsequent years there was a steady increase to a maximum of £33,027 in 1928-1929. Since that time there has been a decline in the value of the goods exported. In 1933-1934, the value had decreased to £15,893, and during the present year to the end of February, the goods exported have been valued at £6,020. The principal item of export in recent years has been bananas of which 32,003 cases were exported, in1931-1932 - 17,125 to Australia and 14,878 to New Zealand. In 1933-1934, the number of cases exported was 18,285, of which all came to Australia. 
Their unfavorable trading position is due to the fact that the Government of New Zealand put an embargo on the importation of fruit and vegetables from Australia in retaliation, so it is said, for the embargo by Australia on the importation of New Zealand potatoes, and the Dominion Government included the produce of Norfolk Island in the embargo. 
One of the reasons advanced by New Zealand for the embargo on Australian potatoes, was the presence in Australia of the Mediterranean fly which, it was feared, might be introduced into that country. There isno Mediterranean fly in Norfolk Island so there is no reason for continuing the embargo on the importation of fruit and vegetables from that island. This we have pointed out to the DominionGovernment unavailingly as yet, I regret to say. The residents keenly resent this treatment of their trade because a greater number of them came originally from New Zealand than from Australia. 
There has been dissatisfaction and unrest on the island for some time. This eventually found expression in representations to the Commonwealth Government, and in a petition to the GovernorGeneral requests were made for an inquiry into the conditions existing on the island and for changes in the administration. In their statement, the islanders submitted that the main causes of their discontent were - 
Excessive and unwarranted powers, both judicial and administrative, exercised by the Administrator, who, though he refers all minor matters to Canberra, is yet in a. position to secure within a few days and completely unknown to the residents, new ordinances which have vitally affected the peace and welfare of the community. Itis inimical to the interests of peace, order and good government that the administrative and judicial authorities be vested in one man. 
Excessive and unwarranted powers exercised by the collector of Customs, who is also, among other things, private secretary, and whose autocratically offensive attitude is intensely resented by all residents. 
Excessive cost of administration and excessive number of officials employedto govern approximately one thousand inhabitants. 
Autocratic attitude and lack of consideration displayed by officials, and inaccessibility of the Administrator. 
Lack of information available on matters of vital importance to the residents. 
Lack of interest taken by the Administrator in the welfare of residents in this time of depression, and autocratic and unsympathetic attitude of the Administrator to any proposals made in the interests of the residents. 
Although the average income of the residents is exceedingly low, the annual revenue collected by the administration is approximately seven pounds per head of the entire population, exclusive of local road tax. amounting to approximately two pounds per head of the entire population. 
Residents have no voice in the disbursement of this revenue, a highly excessive proportion of which is absorbed by government salaries and expenditure on government residences, while no consideration is given to ameliorating the economic and social position of the island. 
In spite of resolutions from the Executive Council, asking for a modification of the tariff on essential commodities no amelioration has been granted, but still further burdens have been imposed. 
It was considered desirable that I, as Minister in Charge of Territories, should visit the island to enable me to acquire direct knowledge of the conditions there. Accordingly I visited the island on the 20th and 21st  of  March, 1935. Whilst there, I received deputations, interviewed residents and attended a public meeting at which over 500 people were present. At that meeting a lengthy statement was presented by the Norfolk Island Association. This association was formed at a public meeting of residents of the island, held  on  the 16th July, 1934, and claims to be the most representative body  on  the island. Numerous representations and recommendations were made by the association which concluded with a request that a royal commission be appointed to inquire into the affairs  of  the island. 
Thereis undoubtedly considerable dissatisfaction in the island in regard to the administration, and, of course, this finds vent in severe criticism of the Administrator and his chief officers as the visible head of the administration. I am convinced that it has its source largely in the system and not the persons. 
As a result of my inquiries, the Commonwealth Government proposes to take certain action with a view to improving the economic position of the residents of the island and the form of administration. It is satisfied that there is no necessity for a royal commission to inquire into the affairs of the island, and that the measures that are proposed to be taken will, with the  co-operation  of the residents, lead to a happier state of affairs on the island. I may mention that a royal commission inquired into the affairs of the island generally in 1926. 
I found that there was feeling against the Administrator because he held himself aloof from the islanders. But I think that I found the explanation for his attitude. We must remember that the  islanders are a small isolated community, with comparatively little contact with the main centres of population. They are a generous simple-living people who are not accustomed to the intricate form of government activities in more populous countries. 
Many of the inhabitants have spent the whole of their lives in their idyllic surroundings. As so often happens with such small insular communities, they desire simplicity in matters of government and are particularly apprehensive in regard to the administration of justice. They are a law-abiding people, but occasionally they sue one another in connexion with some minor dispute, and more rarely they become involved in criminal proceedings. Captain Pinney, the Administrator, is also, the chief magistrate. He is a son-in-law of  Sir Hubert  Murray, and was trained under that great administrator. I found him to be extremely conscientious. As chief magistrate, he considers that it is incumbent upon him to keep himself aloof from the islanders, and, therefore, he has gradually withdrawn more and more to the Residency, and makes little social contact with the people. But because he does this the people have become rather suspicious.  His  view is that if he took part in their social gatherings and mixed more freely with them, he would he suspect when he was called upon to adjudicate in disputes, and it might he held against him that, in his judgments, he was displaying favouritism towards certain people. 
I think that the cure for this state of affairs is to divorce the judiciary from the administration. It is always unwise to associate the two positions, especially in a small community of approximately 1,000 people. I have conferred with the legal officers of the Crown and the Acting Attorney-General  (Senator Brennan)  and the proposal Ave have in mind is to appoint "three or four of the reputable citizens as honorary justices of the peace, investing them with jurisdiction to deal with minor offences. The more serious civil and criminal offences could be dealt with by an officer of the Crown Law Department clothed with the powers of a stipendiary magistrate, or a magistrate of New South "Wales, who could visit Norfolk Island when required - I feel sure, having regard to past experience, that it would not be necessary to go there more than once in six months - to deal with such cases as might arise. I have no doubt that all the cases could be disposed of quickly, so that the stipendiary magistrate could return to the mainland by the next steamer. 
There are among the residents many well-educated people of experience, who could safely be entrusted with the duties discharged by justices of the peace, and their appointment would, I feel sure, have the effect of removing the objection of the islanders, due to the aloofness of the Administrator, who would then feel free to mingle with the people, would get to know what they are talking about, and let them know what was being done by him in their interests. 
The secretary to the Administrator is Captain  Stopp,  who is, I believe, very efficient. I understand he has had some military experience because he seems to have the " snap " of the ordinary military man. He impressed me as being efficient and to have that air of bustle and " snap " usually associated with a military training. But the islanders do not like bustle and snap; they are an easygoing people. They have inherited from their ancestors a disposition which abhors " bustle " and " snap ". 
I have stated the islanders feel that the Administrator does not take any interest in their economic welfare, but I was able to disabuse their minds on this point. Their plantations are in a bad way, and in recent years they have had considerable marketing difficulties. There is no adequate means of publicity. The only newspaper published is in typewritten form, and the Administrator has not taken the trouble to post up notices - I would have done so had I been in his position - to let people know what he is doing. Obviously, he has no great political aptitude, because he does not let people  know what he has done for them. The result is they are firmly convinced that whatever is done is done from Canberra, and against his wishes. This, of course, is quite wrong. Fortunately, I was able  to  cite one or two instances in which the Administrator had submitted proposals having for their object the improvement in the conditions of the islanders, which the Government had endorsed. But, as t say, they firmly believe that everything is done from Canberra and over the Administrator's head. 
Their principal export is bananas. Everybody who has had any connexion with trade knows that, to ensure success, there must be an efficient system of inspection and regulation to prevent unscrupulous exporters from " topping " their cases and putting rotten bananas in the bottom. That is what has happened in some cases in connexion with the export of bananas from the island, with the result that Norfolk Island bananas got- a bad reputation in the Australian market. At one time the fruit was packed anywhere: It would become wet, and would sweat. The Administrator proposed that a fruit shed be provided, and a system of inspection adopted. That improvement was eventually carried out. The residents thought that the Administrator was opposing their request. He was not able to say " yes " immediately, because he could merely make representations to the authorities in Canberra. .Although the residents thought that he was opposing them, the files show clearly that he advocated the improvement. 
The residents export a good deal of bean and other seeds to the markets on the mainland. Unscrupulous growers were sending over inferior, badly graded and, in one case, weevily seed, and consequently the seedsmen in Sydney refused to purchase it. The Administrator recommended the provision of a shed for the inspection of the fruit and seeds, and also a fumigator. Some months elapsed before he could move the authorities in Canberra, but eventually he succeeded, and a fumigator reached Norfolk Island by the vessel on which I travelled. The Administrator was not given the credit for having obtained that useful equipment. This is attributable largely to the fact that no publicity is given to the acts of the Administrator.. When the Government carries but  -its  present proposal, I think that all cause for dissatisfaction will be removed. 
Honorable senators, particularly those who favour low tariffs, will be interested to know that Norfolk Island has about the lowest tariff of any country in the world. Duties are collected only upon a few luxuries and spirits. The island has no manufacturing industries, and the primary industries are not too flourishing. 
The taxation imposed there is much the lightest in Australia. There is no State income tax, and the local taxation is comparatively light* An ordinary citizen in one of the Australian States pays municipal, State and Federal taxation, but, in Norfolk Island, the only tax levied is the local rate, which takes the place of both municipal and State taxation. 
I have not that information before me, but it is a good deal below that on the mainland. 
We are taking action to relieve the economic position of the residents. First of all, the New Zealand market was lost to them, and now prices on the Australian market have declined. The measures to be taken to assist the residents financially include the provision already made in the Loan Appropriation (Unemployment Relief) Bill 1935, for the expenditure of £2,000 on public works. The Administrator was authorized to put in hand works on roads and other public utilities. This will place the money in circulation on the island at the earliest possible date, so as to enable the residents to earn some money to help them in carrying on. When I made a statement to that effect at a public meeting on the island, it was the most popular announcement of the  evening. The Administrator has been authorized to proceed immediately with certain alterations and improvements to the public school building. I found the present building out of date, and badly ventilated and lighted. Nothing had been done to improve it for a number of years. It was only necessary to see the building for one to realize that this expenditure was required. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.About 100. Another proposal is the utilization of an amount not exceeding £2,000 from Commonwealth funds for relief debt adjustment on Norfolk Island. The great part of the land there is held on lease in small farms. A farm of fifteen acres is regarded as being of considerable size. The land is very rich, and it is intensely cultivated. The only bank there is the Commonwealth Savings Bank, and the settlers are unable to obtain advances from that institution. The planters have to apply to private money lenders for financial assistance, and interest rates up to 10 per cent, have been charged on loans. The object in allocating £2,000 to assist the settlers is to use this money as a debt adjustment fund, somewhat on the lines of the adjustment scheme being adopted by the Commonwealth and the States in order to secure a writing down of debts and a reduction of interest. This £2,000 is to be used as a lever to accomplish that end, and we believe that the innovation will have an important effect in the adjustment of the economic conditions of the farmers. The Commonwealth Bank, although it will not advance money to them, has shown its interest in their well-being by advancing £1,000 for the establishment of a butter factory on the island. Up to the present time the residents have not been able to meet their own requirements of butter, hut this, and many other commodities, could be produced there. When the butter factory is established, it will provide another outlet for the activities of the farmers. 
Some of it is good, but much of it is of poor quality. Of late some of the settlers have been introducing purebred bulls, and the quality of the stock has improved. With the advent of the butter factory I have no doubt that the quality of the stock will further improve. 
The Administrator has been authorized sympathetically to consider cases in which the payment of rental would be a hardship, and to show consideration to the land-holders by reduction or postponement of rental payments. The Government does not desire to see these men put off their blocks. Many of them were born on the island, and we want to encourage them to remain on their land. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. Directions in which the growers could be assisted to improve their produce and to find reliable markets are being investigated. It is proposed that further representations should be made to the New Zealand Government upon the question of the removal of the embargo on the admission to the dominion of fruit and vegetables from Norfolk Island. 
With regard to the alterations to be made in the system of administration, it is proposed that the following changes should be made :  - 
Separation of the office of administrator from that of magistrate, and arrangement for stipendiary magistrate to visit the island as required; the appointment of local residents as honorary justices of the peace with summary jurisdiction in minor cases. 
The abolition of the existing Executive Council and provision to be made for an elected advisory council to advise the Administrator in relation to any matter affecting Norfolk Island. 
The position in regard to the Executive Council is absolutely Gilbertian. There are six elective and six nominee members, but the only matters with which the council deals are roads and the clearing of noxious weeds from public and private land. Of course, noxious weeds present a difficult problem. Owing to the relations between the Administrator and the residents, the Norfolk Island Association got behind the opposition to the Administrator, and, at the last election, acted unitedly and elected the whole of the six councillors. Then came the nomination of the other six, and the Administrator appointed some of the defeated men to those positions. The latter felt  that,  whatever the elected councillors proposed, they should take the part of the Administrator, and vote against it, whilst the elected members considered that they should resist any proposal put forward by the Administrator. Consequently the two parties in this little island, in a council which dealt only with roads and noxious weeds, actually had caucus meetings before the meetings of the council to decide upon their course of action. There was a complete deadlock. Nothing at all could be clone on major matters. The Government now proposes to terminate this situation. I cannot see any sense in having nominee members on such a council, since what is required is to know what the residents think and want. Let the people elect their representatives to tell ns what their wishes are. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. The council in Papua is a legislative body, but in Norfolk Island it is to be merely an advisory one. At this preliminary stage, at which there is an advisory council with no legislative power, it seems unnecessary to have nominee members. 
There are to be eight members, and we propose to divide the island into four wards. Although it is a small island, I found, on travelling round it, that the residents in some parts seem to think that they are absolutely neglected, because 'they are the furthest away from " government house", and that " government house " did not notice their requirements. The interests of the residents are not all alike. Those in some parts of the island may be more interested in fishing or the landing places for the reception of tourists, while those in other parts are more concerned about plantations. Therefore, I advised the Government to divide the island into four wards, and have two men elected from each ward, the candidate who tops the poll to be elected for two years, and the candidate with the next highest number of votes to be elected for one yeal1. Honorable senators may ask why it is desired to have an election every year. That point occurred to me also, and when I submitted it to the Administrator, he replied, " An election here costs only about £10, and the people do love elections ". Under the new system the council will elect its own  chairman  annually, and in case of an equality of votes, the Administrator will appoint the  chairman. 
The council will have authority to advise on all matters in which the residents are concerned. The present procedure in regard to the expenditure of money is that the Administrator sets out the amounts proposed to be spent, makes his recommendations to the authorities in Canberra, and the Minister here approves or disapproves of them, the people having no voice at all in the matter. All they are informed is that so much money is to be spent on this, that, or the other matter. We propose that the people shall be told how much is to be voted in each financial year, and we shall allow them to make any representations they desire regarding proposed expenditure. When the estimates of the Administrator are under consideration, the views of the Advisory Council will be before the Minister. 
The ordinances are the laws which govern the affairs of the island at the present time, and the Government promulgates them on the advice of the Administrator. Afterwards they are posted on notice-boards on the island, and then they become law. The normal course under this bill will be that when it is proposed to make an ordinance, a draft of it will be sent to the Advisory Council, which will be invited to express its opinion upon it. Its opinion will come over with the report of the Administrator to the Minister, who will determine what action is to be taken. 
An exception to that procedure may he when it is necessary to promulgate an urgent or a special ordinance. In that case, an ordinancewill be promulgated imediately. The Advisory Council will, however, be given an opportunity to make its representations on an ordinance of that nature. Such representations will be taken into consideration, and if the Governor-General so approves, the ordinance may be repealed or amended to give effect in whole or in part to the representations made by the Advisory Council. 
The proposals for an elective advisory council, and for the separation of the magisterial from the administrative functions of the Administrator, were made, and I obtained the consent of the Government to the proposed alteration. The main outlines of the proposals were submitted to the Executive Council of Norfolk Island after my return, and the Administrator advises that they were unanimously agreed to. 
All the details of the scheme, such as the proposed division of the island into wards, have not yet been brought to its notice, but apparently its members regard the proposal as wholly satisfactory. 
Although the island is small, and its people few, it seems to me that we should endeavour to help them in every possible way. I appeal to honorable senators to visit, the island, if they can spare the time. I am sure that they will receive kindly and hospitable treatment from the residents. Living is cheap, and the island has some of the most beautiful scenery in the world. Such a visit would be appreciated by the residents, who would regard it as an indication that the people of Australia are at last taking an active interest in their welfare. 
My desire is that this bill shall be passed before Parliament adjourns, so that effect may speedily be given to the proposals which I have outlined. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
.- The history of navigation in Australia, and of the Navigation Act itself, is very interesting. The subject of navigation was before the public of this country for many years, and a considerable time elapsed between the passing of the original bill and the giving of the royal assent to it. The pioneers of this legislation believed that, in securing its passage, they had done the right thing for Australia. The case for the Navigation Act, as originally introduced, could not be better stated than in the words of the right honorable  Sir George  Pearce, who piloted it through the Senate. For that reason I propose to place those words on record again. In moving the second reading of the bill in the Senate in August, 1910,  Senator Pearce  said - 
I may say that this measure contains the principle that the Australian coastal trade shall be reserved exclusively for vessels complying with Australian conditions. The Government contend that this is in accord with the protective principle which has been adopted in regard to trade in other directions. We have to remember that, in building up our mercantile marine, it is necessary for us to adopt a similar method to that which has been adopted in relation to other industries. We have to recollect that our mercantile marine is subject, not only to similar competition, but, in many respects, to a more formidable competition. Other industries are subject to the competition of foreign manufacturers who are themselves the subject of competition in their own country, but our mercantile marine is subject to the competition of foreign vessels which arc very often subsidized by foreign countries to enable them to successfully compete in Australian waters, and in the waters of other countries. Again, the competition in our waters with British-owned vessels is very often of an unfair character, because those vessels are in all cases manned by crews whose members receive less than the Australian rate of wage, whilst, in many cases, they are manned by coloured crews who are paid even a very much lower rate. ... I also know that many steamers which are competing in our coastal trade are bounty fed. Yet they pay lower rates of wages to their crews than do Australian vessels: so that our ship-owners are subject to a doubly unfair competition in that, whilst their vessels are not bounty fed. they are required to pay a fairly decent rate of wages. . . . The competition with foreign vessels is really more unfair to our ship-owners than is the competition with British vessels. The foreigner is in a better position to oust our ships than is the Britisher. Nevertheless, the British ship-owner enjoys an advantage over the Australian shipowner, whilst the foreigner enjoys a double advantage. This bill attempts to make the conditions of sea-faring life on our Australian coast such as will induce young Australians to embark upon it as their life vocation. Its object is to encourage them to become seafaring nien, as were their ancestors. . . . We believe that, if this bill becomes law, it will render the conditions of life aboard ship much more bearable, and much more attractive - in short, that it will induce many young Australians, who now regard a seafaring life as the last resort, to enter that calling. Thus, we shall secure a better class of workman, who will lie able to  enjoy  some of the comforts of life. 
The same circumstances exist to-day. 
Nothing. They were words of wisdom, which apply with equal force to present-day conditions as they did to those existing 24 years ago. It has been said that, in introducing the bill now before us, the Government is desirous of helping Tasmania by facilitating the transport of goods between Tasmania and the mainland, and giving an impetus to the tourist* traffic to that State. Inquiries into the disabilities of Tasmania have been made from time to time by various commissions. The report of the Royal Commission on the Navigation Act, presented in 1924, states - 
It was asserted that the oversea fruit export of Tasmania has been seriously injured by reason of the Navigation Act. 
At that time it was complained that Tasmania was suffering severely as a result of the operation of the Navigation Act. The report continues - 
The Tasmanian fruit export overseas are as follows: - 

<graphic href="146332193504044_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

More overseas boats went into Hobart during 1923 to carry away fruit than ever went into it  before  in a single year. It is complained that there were only half the number of fast mail boats now going into their capital port. That fact applies to every capital port in Australia, because the oversea mail service is 50 per cent, below pre-war. 
In the report of the inquiry made by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts into the disabilities of Tasmania under federation, presented in June, 1921, it is stated - 
It is claimed that the Navigation Act is a serious disability to Tasmania, perhaps more so than the tarin*, because Tasmania is so dependent on sea transport. It is admitted that it is not possible to assess the disability. lt is stated, however, that "Tasmania bears a disproportionate amount of the costs imposed by the act on account of the importance of its interstate and tourist traffic." The Navigation Act was the subject of a royal commission in 1924. The findings of the royal commission were not unanimous, and three separate reports were submitted. The  chairman  and one other commissioner arrived at thu conclusion that the Navigation Act has proved a serious disability to Tasmania; but the other five commissioners did not support that view. Two of those commissioners expressed the view that southern Tasmania had been affected so far as the tourist traffic was concerned, but not nearly to the extent imagined by the people of Hobart. (The other three commissioners arrived at the conclusion that the Navigation Act had not affected the tourist traffic, or inflicted injury on Tasmanian industries; also that it had not retarded development or affected the financial position of the State. 
I am concerned chiefly about the conditions under which the crews of these ships are expected to work, as was the right honorable senator when he piloted the original hill through the Senate. I am anxious also that the best facilities possible for the transport of goods and passengers across Bass Strait should be provided, but I prefer to provide them in accordance with the policy advocated by the Labour party. We on this side would give to Tasmania a better shipping service by means of conditional subsidies, and an equitable reduction of shipping freights and fares, and by instituting as soon as practicable a Commonwealthowned service, providing direct and frequent communication between Tasmanian and mainland ports. That policy would give to Tasmania all that that State could reasonably claim. Had the Scullin Government remained in power, it would have placed its shipping policy on the statute-book. 
On the occasion to which I have referred,  Senator Pearce  said that many of the ships coming to Australia were manned by Lascar crews, or by British seamen who were very much underpaid compared with what Australians regard as fair and reasonable rates of pay. I am afraid that this bill will provide a loopholeby which vessels manned by coloured crews in receipt of low rates of pay will come into competition with legitimate traders who pay Australian rates and maintain Australian standards. 
As it has been said that these overseas vessels may not be subsidized, I direct attention to the following report, which appeared in a recent issue of the  Sydney Morning Herald. 
I shall have great pleasure in supporting the second reading of this bill, because for many years the people of Tasmania have been crying out for relief from the coasting trade provisions of the Navigation Act, which prevented overseas vessels, except those under permit, from carrying interstate passengers to and from Tasmania. Honorable senators will remember that for several years there was a hold-up of the shipping service to Tasmania practically every tourist season. People on the mainland did not know when they could go there and when they would be able to return, and, consequently, the tourist traffic was seriously affected. I, myself, during a strike period, have had to cross Bass Strait as one of 80 passengers, in a vessel of about 100 tons with accommodation for only 20 persons. Honorable senators can imagine the conditions which existed when men, women and children were travelling under those conditions in a rough sea. If only to avoid a recurrence of such happenings, Tasmania is entitled to the relief proposed in this measure. It is true that, under the system of permits which has operated during the last four or five years, conditions have improved considerably; but as the permits are granted only for one season or for only a few months at a time, and there is no guarantee of continuity of policy, hotelkeepers and others in Tasmania, who cater for the tourist trade, fear to improve their accommodation, or to provide better means of transport. When this bill hasbecome law, they will be encouraged to make better provision for tourists, because it will not be possible to withdraw the permits merely at the whim of the government in power. Parliament will have to intervene before they can be withdrawn, and that, after all, is the proper procedure. 
I admit that the accommodation provided for seamen on overseas vessels is not equal to that stipulated by the Navigation Act, nor is the pay the same. It would be impracticable for overseas vessels to comply with the requirements of the act while in Australian territorial waters, for the application to them of its provisions would necessitate an increase of the members of their crews by about one-third for the whole journey. These vessels comply with the British Merchant Service Act, which is supposed to set a standard. For many years before the Navigation Act came into operation, Tasmania had a weekly steamer service with the mainland, and with New Zealand, but after the enactment of that legislation there were times when for three or four months of the year no vessel carrying passengers entered Hobart, which is one of the best ports in the world. 
Some years ago, a State shipping service was established by the government of Tasmania, hut it was a dismal failure. Its operations cost the State a large sum of money, and eventually it went out of existence. Similar conditions existed in connexion with the Australian Commonwealth line of steamers, which was certainly of service to Australia during the war period; but when conditions became normal its trading operations were carried on in such a manner that millions of pounds were lost. The service, which was one of  the  worst in  the  world, was conducted in  the  interests of  the  seamen rather than of passengers or those who used it for transporting goods. The intention of the Government to amend the Navigation Act in the direction proposed has had a remarkable- effect upon the interstate shipping companies. The following new passenger vessels have  been  or will be placed on the Australian coast by the companies mentioned: -  Wanganella  and  Westralia,  by Huddart, Parker Limited,  Manunda  and  Manoora,  by the Adelaide Steamship Company  Limited;  Duntroon,  by the Melbourne Steamship Company Limited;  Taroona,  by Tasmanian Steamers Proprietary Limited; and a new vessel is also being constructed by McIlwraith, McEacharn and Company. Apparently the interstate shipping companies are not afraid of competition from the additional service which will be available when this measure is enacted. Certain interstate shipping companies carry large numbers of passengers to Northern Queensland ports during the winter months, but frequently those who desire to make the trip find it necessary to book their passages months ahead in order to secure accommodation. The bill provides that overseas vessels of a certain tonnage and capable of a specified speed shall be permitted to carry passengers between Australian ports not connected by rail. As the overseas vessels charge higher fares than are charged on the interstate boats  it  is unlikely that the competition will be intense. Those desiring to travel at lower rates can utilize the interstate vessels, but others who may prefer overseas ships and who like travelling on larger vessels, can avail themselves of the opportunity which this bill affords them. 
The Premier of Tasmania left that State on the  Ceramic,  which is a British ship employing British seamen. Will the Acting AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Brennan)  explain what is meant by clause 3, which provides - 
Section seven of the principal act is amended by inserting at the end thereof the following proviso: - " Provided also that - 
subject to paragraph (b) of this proviso, a British ship of not less than 10,000 gross tonnage and a sea speed of not less than fourteen knots shall not be deemed to engage In the coasting trade, within the meaning of this act, by reason of the fact that she takes on board, or carries, any passenger who is to be, or is being, conveyed without break of journey, transhipment or second call at any intermediate port, from a port in Australia (in this proviso referred to as 'the first port of embarkation ' ) to another port in Australia (in this proviso referred to as ' the port of destination') with which the first port of embarkation is not connected by rail. 
Does that mean that a vessel proceeding from Brisbane to Hobart, via Sydney, may carry passengers to Hobart, but that they must not return to Sydney by the same vessel? 
The Minister explained the position very fully in his second-reading speech, but that point was not made quite clear. 
But a passenger could travel from Brisbane to Hobart via Sydney. 
I heartily support the bill and trust that it will have a speedy passage. 
Honorable senators on this side of the chamber are always anxious to assist an indigent State. 
I withdraw it. 
I meant to say that Tasmania is not in the same happy position as is Queensland. I did not intend to say anything derogatory of Tasmania, which is a fine State represented by capable senators. 
I used it only because of Tasmania's unfortunate economic circumstances due to its geographical position. On numerous occasions the Tasmanian Government has asked the federal authorities for assistance, which has been given with the help of honorable senators on this side of the chamber. The Tasmanian Government has the right to appeal to the Commonwealth authorities for financial assistance when it needs it. It is its duty to do so. We feel, however that, under the guise of further assisting that State a direct attack is being made on the Navigation Act. Although the measure may appear simple its. ultimate effect may be detrimental to our White Australia policy and our general scheme of developing Australian industries. If new vessels are being placed in the interstate trade controlled, I suppose, by Australian companies, why cannot they carry all the traffic offering? 
That may be so, but( the ships will be available if government assistance is given. The honorable senator, who also stated that millions of pounds were lost by the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, should remember that, although a direct financial loss was incurred, the indirect benefit to primary producers and Australia generally was tremendous. Many advantages would still be enjoyed by the Australian people if those vessels were still under the control of the Commonwealth. We realize the difficulties under which Tasmania is suffering and are anxious to do our best to afford some assistance, but we should like to know why it is necessary to introduce this bill when other measures could be adopted. If we believe in a White Australia policy, the payment of award rates, and the  maintenance of a high standard of living, why should we not encourage the Australian shipping industry instead of giving preference to vessels manned by coloured labour ? I am sure that  Senator Grant  and other Tasmanian senators do not wish the standard of living to be lowered. Some years ago the present  President  of the Senate when speaking on the original Navigation Bill said that the seamen had never had a fair deal. 
No ; but the measure makes statutory provision for certain overseas ships, manned by coloured labour, to compete with vessels in the interstate trade on which award rates are paid. Many of the overseas ships employ coolie labour at wages much lower than those paid to Australian seamen. 
No, but statutory provision is made to enable overseas vessels to engage in the interstate trade under certain conditions. At present the Minister has the right to issue a permit which enables inquiries to be made, and, if necessary, it can be refused. I ask the Minister if that is so. 
If a Minister ascertained that the rates of wages were unreasonable or that the conditions provided for the seamen were unsatisfactory he could refuse to issue a permit. The proposed amendment of the Navigation Act specifically provides that vessels over 10,000 tons and capable of a speed of not less than 14 knots an hour shall be permitted to 'carry passengers between Australian ports not connected by rail. This concession will be given to a British or foreign vessel registered in Great Britain and on which coolies may be employed. Such vessels will enter into direct competition with ships in the interstate trade on which award rates of wages are paid. We believe in supporting Australian industries, including the shipping industry, and in ensuring that all workers, whether in the maritime or any other industry, are paid fair wages and work under reasonable conditions. As hundreds of thousands of pounds have been spent by this Government in other directions, it should be able, by increasing the subsidy if necessary, to arrange with the interstate shipping companies to provide the improved service said to be required. I hold no brief for these companies.  Senator Grant  says that the interstate companies are spending much money on the construction of new vessels, and I suggest that the Government should come to some agreement with them for the carriage of passengers between Tasmania and the mainland. 
Surely the Tasmanian senators, as supporters of the Government, could bring pressure on Ministers to do something in this direction, especially as the head of this Government is a Tasmanian. I agree that it would be better for Australian-owned vessels to do all the trade between Tasmania and the mainland, than for the service to be divided between Australian and British ships. 
I understand what the honorable senator means. He would be quite willing to accept services rendered by British ships, even if they do employ coolie labour, and thus interfere with Australian vessels which are 'required to observe Australian industrial standards. 
We do not object to the employment of Italians in the sugar-cane fields in Queensland because they are paid award rates of wages. and become citizens of Australia. That is all that wo are asking this Government to do in connexion with the shipping service to Tasmania. We, on this side, are opposed to those provisions in the bill that threaten the industrial standards of Australian seamen. Our objection is economic. We are opposed to any proposal that will interfere with the White Australia policy of the party to which we belong. We do not object to coloured people as coloured people, but because their competition threatens our industrial standards, for which, in early years,  Senator Sir George  Pearce and the  President (Senator Lynch)  fought so strenuously as members of the Australian Labour party. 
We applaud the Government for including in this bill provision for the installation of wireless on vessels which hitherto have not been required to carry this equipment; but we say that as the measure deals with two different proposals, one of which we support, and one to which we are opposed, we cannot discuss it on its merits. Separate hills should have been introduced. As the Government has been providing for subsidies in many directions, there is no reason why, instead of bringing forward the bill in its present form, in opposition to the principles of many of its supporters, it should not have made an arrangement with Australian shipping companies to give an improved service, or, as an alternative, made financial provision for a Commonwealth-owned shipping line between Tasmania and the mainland. I hope that the representatives of Tasmania in this chamber will endorse my remarks, because I am convinced that, at heart, they are good Australians, and are not desirous of supporting any project to encourage the unfair competition of overseas vessels employing coloured crews with the Australian shipping industry. 
I compliment the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator Brennan)  for his clear explanation of its principles, but I take this opportunity to remind the Senate that the measure does no more than justice to Tasmania. For many years we have been impressing upon successive governments the disabilities imposed on Tasmania by the Navigation 
Act, and the enormous losses suffered by that State owing to the restrictions placed upon the passenger trade between Tasmania and the mainland. I am glad that I am supporting a government whichhas as last introduced legislation to give statutory effect to the arrangement under which, during the last few years, permits were given to certain overseas vessels to engage in the passenger service between mainland ports and Tasmania.  Senator Brown  seems to be obsessed with the view that any honorable senator who supports this bill is opposed to the White Australia policy. Nothing could be further from the truth, because, as has been shown in this debate, the entry of overseas vessels in the Tasmanian passenger trade has not interfered in any way with the interests of Australian shipping companies. Indeed, the figures for the last two years show conclusively that the number of passengers carried by interstate vessels, instead of decreasing since the granting of permits to British steamers, has definitely increased. In 1931-32, the year before the first permits to British steamers were issued, the total number of passengers carried to and from Tasmanian ports by interstate passenger steamers was 39,900. In 1932-33, the first year of the permit system, the passengers totalled 43,461, and for theyear 1933-34 the number was 54,817. 
That is so. I think  Senator Brennan  mentioned that fact in the course of his speech. On behalf of the people of Tasmania, I and my colleagues, appreciate very highly the step taken to incorporate in the Navigation Act a provision enabling British steamers to engage in the Tasmanian trade under certain conditions. It is high time that this was done. It was not the intention of Parliament, when the Navigation Bill was under consideration, that the people of Tasmania should suffer the injustices which they have been called upon to endure for so many years since the commencement of that act. Eventually, the losses sustained by that State became so burdensome that Parliament was called upon to render financial assistance, and I am glad to be able to say that honorable senators opposite have always been willing to support any such proposal. I would, however, impress upon them that any financial aid given to Tasmania is not a form of a charity, but a right duc to that State under the Constitution. The losses suffered by Tasmania under the Navigation Act have been very real. For many years we welcomed the advent of the tourist season, knowing that a large number of visitors would come over from the mainland to enjoy the scenic beauties of the island, and spend money freely while there. Happily, there is now some prospect of a return of those conditions enjoyed by Tasmania in the tourist season, for notwithstanding the vigorous advertising campaign launched by the overseas companies to persuade people to join the holiday tours to Noumea, New Guinea, Norfolk Island and elsewhere, more people have come to Tasmania recently whore the scenic attractions are second to none. In conclusion, I again express my appreciation of the distinct service rendered to the people of Tasmania by the introduction of this bill, and I feel sure that although honorable senators opposite have spoken in criticism of it, they will not oppose its passage because, as they well know, it will not endanger the White Australia policy. 

 Senator HERBERT HAYS (Tasmania) "5.20].  -  I congratulate the Government on the introduction of this bill. It is long overdue, because for years the shipping services have been a vexed problem to the people of Tasmania. So strong have been their representations to the Government from time to time, that royal commissions and committees have been appointed to investigate their claims for improved shipping services, and the wide differences of opinion that have prevailed in this Parliament have been reflected in the fact that majority and minority reports were always presented. From the time of the proclamation of the coasting trade provisions of the act, objection has been taken to them, not only in Tasmania, but also in all parts of the Commonwealth. The isolation of Tasmania has always been complained of as one of its great disabilities, and these disabilities were increased when its shipping facilities were curtailed by the passage of the Navigation Act.  Senator Brown,  in a most extravagant manner, and without any justification for his assertions, would have it appear that the Government, and those supporting it, have brought down this measure without regard to the wages and working conditions enjoyed by Australian seamen. Honorable senators on this .side of the chamber are just as much concerned as are those opposite about ensuring to Australian seamen proper industrial conditions. The present Government, and other ministries formed by the parties now in power, are responsible for most of the industrial legislation on the statute-book.  Senator Brown  referred to an attempt to break down the conditions under which Australian seamen work to-day. I remind the Senate that when the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, on which Australian wages and conditions had to be observed, was established, it was hoped that its operations would help to build up an Australian mercantile marine; but the inquiries carried out by the Public Accounts Committee showed that more than 50 per cent, of the men employed on those ships were domiciled in Great Britain. The history of that line of steamers shows that the object of those who supported its establishment was defeated, and in the end the Parliament was compelled to take such steps as would prevent any further loss in operating the vessels. 

 Senator Brown and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  referred to a speech made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  when the Navigation Act was passed.  Senator Pearce  and others even then recognized the difficulties of States which had no railway communication with the other States, and it .was decided that passengers desiring to travel, say, from Western Australia to the eastern States, should be permitted to make the journey on overseas vessels even though they were manned by persons described by  Senator Brown  as coolies. Labour members of Parliament have often travelled on these ships, regardless of the colour of their crews. It seems to me that  Senator Brown,  in accusing supporters of the Government of being callous in regard to the interests of Australian seamen " doth protest too much ". When the principal act was under consideration, its supporters considered that it would confer benefit on Australia as a whole, but the coasting trade provisions have proved to be one of Tasmania's greatest bugbears. I gladly pay a tribute once more to those public men and organizations in Tasmania, who, in season and out of season, have consistently urged the claims of the State for improved shipping services. Although they were as voices crying in the wilderness, they now have the satisfaction of knowing that at last the Commonwealth has recognized Tasmania's disabilities in this regard. Contrary to the expectations of many persons, as pointed out by  Senator Payne,  the system of granting permits to overseas ships to carry interstate passengers has not injured the coastal shipping companies in any way. 
Of course not. I recognize that they are providing good services, and are building ships far in advance of the immediate requirements of the trade. 

<graphic href="146332193504044_23_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="146332193504044_23_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="146332193504044_23_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
 The point has been raised by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that as it will not be possible, at once, to provide all the wireless apparatus that is required, it may be necessary to postpone the operation of this bill, since there is no provision for putting only a part of it into effect. The answer to the honorable senator is contained in clause 4, which provides that every seagoing ship registered in Australia, or engaged in the coasting trade, " shall be provided with such ' wireless telegraph installation, and maintain such wireless service as is prescribed in respect of the class in which the ship is included ". Until there is a prescription by regulation, the ships which are not able to get the necessary equipment will not be bound to obtain it. The department will allow at least three months before any of the regulations providing for the type of wireless equipment to he used are enforced. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Definition of coasting trade). 
Will the Minister accept an amendment to prevent any vessel employing other than white labour from coming under the provisions of this clause? I do not desire any ship employing coolie labour to be allowed to carry passengers, say, from Brisbane or Melbourne to Hobart. 
.   -  I move - 
That after the word " every ", proposed new sub-section 1, the words "foreign-going or Australian trade ship and every" be inserted. 
The object of this amendment is to bring within theprovisions of the act relating to wireless on ships, vessels, whether British or foreign, visiting our ports and, in the case of passenger liners, those embarking Australian tourists and travellers for conveyance to ports abroad. Most ships are already compelled to be equipped with wireless by the laws of the country in which they are registered; but.it as required of us as a party to the International Safety Convention to see that all passenger ships and cargo ships of over 1,600 tons visiting our ports shall be provided with wireless installation. The necessary . power to do this is contained in the principal act; but the amendment as drafted an this bill inadvertently takes away that power. The object of this further amendment is to restore it. The provisions with respect to wireless on cargo ships of less than 1,600 tons willbe applied under the bill to all ships registered in Australia or engaged in the coasting trade only. 
.- I see no objection to the amendment proposed by the Minister. There is one point however which I would like to raise at this stage. Yesterday, the Minister, in introducing this bill, said that it was proposed to make provision for the equipment with wireless of all ships that come under Commonwealth control. There are many other ships coming under the control of the States that will not be affected by this bill. It may be neces sary to exert strong pressure on the States to ensure that legislation is introduced into the State parliaments making provisions similar to those in this bill with regard to safety at sea. The Minister said yesterday that the States are expected to follow with complementary legislation. I am anxious to ascertain what action the States propose to take. 
. -The States are waiting the passing of this bill inorder to see the requirements imposed by the Commonwealth, and they will no doubt follow our lead. . 
 One of the cargo ships trading between Melbourne and Brisbane has available two berths that might be occupied by passengers permitted to travel between those two ports. I should like to know from the Minister whether in his opinion this clause would protect the crew of that ship and the invitees of the company by requiring the carrying of wireless equipment for the purpose of signalling in case of distress. 
 Such a vessel would not be covered by the present act since it has accommodation for only two passengers. A ship is not classed as a passenger ship unless it carries twelve passangers. In the clause now under consideration, wireless will be necessary. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause as amended agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
I understand that certain honorable senators who are retiring from the Senate shortly are to be entertained during the dinner adjournment, and, with the consent of honorable senators, I shall suspend the sitting until 8 p.m. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The primary object of the bill is, as the long title and preamble indicate, to give effect to a convention for the unification of certain rules relating to international carriage by air. This convention is the result of a conference held at Warsaw in 1929, at which a set of regulations applicable to the carriage of persons, luggage and goods by air was drawn up and signed, in the form of a convention, to which Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Commonwealth of Australia and South Africa, in addition to some twenty other nations, subscribed. A copy of the convention is set out in the first schedule to the bill. Although signed on behalf of the Commonwealth, it is not yet in force in respect of Australia, owing to the absence of the necessary ratification. Like other similar conventions which come before us for ratification, it must either be accepted wholly, or rejected wholly. 
With the growth of civil aviation in Australia, and as between England and Australia, it becomes increasingly important that proper provision should be made for regulating the matters which necessarily arise in relation to the carriage of persons and goods by air. Carriage by air has for several years been a feature of interstate transport, between Sydney and Brisbane and between Adelaide and Perth. More recently, the establishment of the England to Australia air service has brought Australia into the sphere of international air transport, and it is essential for the proper conduct of that service that people utilizing it should know the conditions under which they do so. 
Great Britain has already passed legislation, known as the Carriage by Air Act 1932, to give effect to the convention internationally, and also to provide for the application of its provisions to air transport within England itself and the colonies and protectorates. Although, as already stated, the primary object of the bill is to give effect to the convention, there is also machinery for applying, subject to exceptions, adaptations and modifications, if any, the provisions of the convention to "such carriage by air, not being international carriage as defined in the convention ". 
Before explaining the various clauses of the bill, and the manner in which it is proposed to make the convention effective, as law, in the Commonwealth and the territories thereof, I shall outline the principal provisions of the convention. It applies, as is explained in article 1, to all international carriage of persons, luggage or goods performed by aircraft for reward, and also to gratuitous carriage by aircraft by an air transport undertaking. " International carriage " is defined in this article. 
Under article 2, the convention applies to carriage performed by the State, or by legally-constituted bodies; but it is not applicable to carriage performed under the terms of any international postal convention. 
Chapter II. of the convention relates to documents of carriage. The carrier is required by article 5 to deliver a passenger ticket containing certain specified particulars. In the case of luggage, a ticket containing certain specified particulars is to be issued in duplicate. This is provided for in article 4. Articles 5 to 16 relate to " air consignment notes ". 
Chapter III. deals with the liability of the carrier by air. Article 17 provides that the carrier is liable for. damages sustained in the event of the death or wounding of a passenger, or any other bodily injury suffered by a passenger, if the accident which caused the damage so sustained took place on board the aircraft, or in the course of any of the operations of embarking or disembarking. This liability is, by sub-clause 4 of clause 3 of the bill, in substitution for any liability of the carrier under any other law in respect of the death of a passenger, and special provisions are set out in the second schedule with respect to the persons by and for whose benefit the liability so imposed is enforceable, and with respect to the manner in which it may be enforced. 
With regard to damage to, or destruction or loss of luggage and goods, the carrier is, under article 18, liable if the occurrence which caused the damage so sustained took place during the carriage by air. The carrier is also liable for damage occasioned by delay in carriage. In order to escape liability, the carrier has, under article 20, to prove that he and his agents have taken all necessary measures to avoid the damage, or that it was impossible for him or his agents to take such measures. 
Article 22 limits the carrier's liability for each passenger to the sum of 125,000 francs. I may here explain that, under sub-clause 5 of clause 3 of the bill, any sum. in francs mentioned in article 22 is to be converted into Australian currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date on which the amount of airy damages to be paid by the carrier is ascertained by a court in any action against the carrier. The sum of 125,000 francs would, therefore, be equivalent to about £2,155 in Australia at the present time. 
In the carriage of registered luggage and of goods, the liability is ordinarily limited to a sum of 250 francs per kilogram, or about £4 per 2^ lb. avoirdupois. Actions against a carrier may, in the event of his death, be continued against his legal representatives, but, under article 29, the right to damages is extinguished if an action is not brought within two years. 
Such, briefly, is the purport of the convention, which contains 35 articles relating to the rights and obligations of carriers. The remaining articles deal with formal matters relating to the ratification and duration of the convention. 
I shall now say a word or two in explanation of the bill itself. Under clause 3, it is proposed that the GovernorGeneral may, by notice in the  Gazette,  declare the date upon which the convention is to come into operation in respect of the Commonwealth, or of any territory of the Commonwealth. After such date, the provisions of the convention will, so far as they relate to the rights and liabilities of carriers, passengers, con signors, consignees, and other persons, have the force of law in the Commonwealth and any territory in respect of which notice has been published in the  Gazette,  in relation to any carriage by air to which the convention applies, irrespective of the nationality of the aircraft performing that carriage. 
Special provisions are contained in clause 4 with respect to actions against high contracting parties to the convention who undertake carriage by air. The clause is not to be deemed to authorize the issue of execution against the property of any such party. 
Clause 5 deals with the application of the act to carriage by air which is not international. Clause 6 is the usual provision with regard to the making of regulations, which are not to be inconsistent with the act or the convention. 
Such, briefly, is the purport of the bill and the convention complementary to it. I need not emphasize the desirableness of early steps being taken to ratify this convention. The ramifications of modern international air travel make it essential that the rights and obligations of carriers by air should be clearly delimited. The bill provides the solution, and marks an important stage in the development of the law with regard to aviation. As the convention has been adopted by most of the European countries, and by other countries as well, I suggest that we shall not run any great risk in accepting it as it stands. Nor do I think there is anything in the covering clauses of the bill to excite the hostility of any honorable senator. I confidently submit the measure to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 6 agreed to. 
Schedules. 
Honorable senators will see that this is a bill to give effect to a convention for the unification of " certain " rules. I should like to know whether the first schedule contains the whole of the rules that were laid down at the Air Convention, or only those which were considered to be applicable to Australia. 
Schedules agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
.- I desire to bring under the notice of the Government the fact that several business men have spoken to me concerning the difficulties they have experienced in obtaining supplies of galvanized iron. When I have read some of the correspondence which has passed between the retailers, wholesalers, and manufacturers, honorable senators will realize that immediate action should be taken to remove the difficulty which exists. One is appalled to find that the promise of those controlling this industry, whichhas been assisted so materially under our protective policy, that there would be no difficulty in obtaining supplies has proved so unreliable. The industry is very important to Australia. I suppose that there is hardly any product of greater importance to the Australian people than galvanized iron. The correspondence in connexion with certain transactions justifies the complaint I am making, and will be an eye-opener to some honorable senators. I do not think that a strike which occurred in the industry in August last year was entirely responsible for the shortage of supplies. I have correspondence dated from September onwards which makes the position clear. The first letter is from a retailer to Messrs. John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Melbourne. It is dated the 14th September, and reads - 
Herewith we have pleasure in handing you order for galvanized iron all of which is urgently required. As far as we can trace our order of the 25th July has not been completed 1 case each 5 feet and6 feet by 26 gauge and 1 case 8 feet by 24 gauge not having come to hand. The 8 feet by 24 gauge isvery urgently required and if it is not likely to come forward from Newcastle by next boat please ship from Melbourne. The other can come along in clue course. You will also note that there are five eases required from Newcastle and we shall be glad to receive this at an early date. We are also urgently requiring 1 case9 by 24 " Orb", and 1 case 36 by 24 "Queen's Head", and we shall esteem it a favour if you will ship these from Melbourne by return. 
On the 17th September, John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Melbourne, wrote as follows :  - 
We thank you for yours of the 14th instant enclosing order for galvanized iron, which is having our attention. We are ordering from Newcastle the live cases required, and we are also adding the two cases asked for from our Melbourne stock as our stocks here are completely exhausted. As you are no doubt aware, our Newcastle works havebeen closed since the 23rd August owing to the workmen having gone out on strike and until they resume work we are unable to say when shipment can be made of the orders we have on hand. 
On the 22nd October, the same firm sent the following communication: - 
We are in receipt of your letter of the 20th instant and thank you for the order for one case 24 gauge " Queens Head " which we have forwarded to our Newcastle works for shipment. We note the list giving details of your orders on hand, and we agree with this, with the exception that we have an additional one case of 7 feet by 24 gauge " Orb " still to be supplied, which has been omitted from your list. 
The list of the iron ordered some time previously was correct, with the exception that one case was omitted. On the 26th November, the retailer received the following letter from John Lysaght (Australia) Limited: - 
We thank you for your order of the 24th instant and regret that wo have no 7 feet by 26 gauge " Orb " available in Melbourne for shipment. We ore therefore placing the whole five cases on order at our Newcastle works for shipment as soon as possible. 
On the 14th December,  Mr. H.  M. MacKenzie, the manager of Lysaghts (Australia) Limited, wrote in the following terms: - 
We are in receipt of your wire of even date reading - " No steamer Newcastle Burnie before Christmas. Absolutely stuck sevens nines twenty-six. Ship case each  Marrawah.  If out orderRussel or Briscoe our account." and confirm our reply - . " Regret unable to supply sevens and nines required. None in stock or obtainable from our customers." 
Our customer* are in much the same position us yourselves and are awaiting supplies from our Newcastle works. 
That is the correspondence which passed between the retailer and the manufacturer up to the end of last year. I find, however, that the same difficulty was experienced this year. The following is a copy of a telegram received from Briscoe and Company, merchants, of Melbourne : - 
Oan only supply six and eight  feets  twentysix gauge English " Orb " £24 10s. No 5  feets.  Shall we scud? 
On the 30th January, a retailer despatched to Briscoe and Company Limited, of Melbourne, the following letter : - 
On Wednesday last we ordered with other goods six cases 26-gauge galvanized iron. We received the other goods back by  Loongana  on the Saturday, but no mention was made of the iron. 
Since then mails have arrived direct per  Marrawah,  and a second one per  Loongana  this morning, in addition to other mails via Launceston, but no mention lias been made of the iron at all. 
We wired you about 9.30 a.m. this morning asking what was being done, but up to time of writing - D.45 - have not received a reply. We have been relying on receiving at least a portion of this, and have had to disappoint customers who are asking us for explanations which we are unable to supply. We cannot understand why you have not written or wired us about it. 
On the 31st January he received the following telegram from Briscoe and Company Limited : - 
Regret no Orb iron available. Telegraphed works yesterday. Just received reply. Small shipment arriving Monday next. No specification mentioned. Will ship all can immediately available. Could ship to-morrow case each five to niue. Telegraph reply. 
On the 31st January, the following letter was received from Briscoe and Company Limited : - 
We duly received your telegram regarding  galvanized  iron, but unfortunately were not able to reply immediately, 06 we were waiting advice from Newcastle. 
We were promised definitely by Messrs. Lysaghts that we would have a consignment on vessel arriving on Monday last, and fully expected to ship your order by this week's  Loongana,  but unfortunately they did not send any iron at all. On Tuesday we telegraphed, to Newcastle, and only this morning received a reply stating that a small shipment would rrive here on Monday next, but they gave no specification, so that even now we do not know that we will be able to complete your order. 
The position of galvanized iron is most unsatisfactory; at the present moment 26-gauge Orb corrugated iron is unprocurable in Melbourne in any lengths. 
As telegraphed, we could ship to-morrow one case each 5, 0, 7, 8, and 9 feet Guinea iron (no 10  feets),  and as we have only two cases of each size asked you to telegraph reply if this will do. 
The correspondence I have read discloses the seriousness of the position. Others have had a similar experience; but I do not think it necessary to give details of each case. I have also received complaints from business people on the northwest coast, Launceston, and elsewhere, all of whom have been handicapped in their businesses owing to their inability to obtain the necessary supplies. I do not know if the strike was solely responsible. 
I suggest that the honorable senator should obtain that information from the honorable senator sitting behind him. As the Government wishes this industry to be conducted in the interests of Australia, and of the workers engaged in it, I trust that immediate inquiries will be made. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  and those associated with him should also bring pressure to bear upon the workers, who are receiving higher wages and operating, under better conditions than those in almost any other industry in. Australia. If something is not done immediately, it will not be long before. Parliament will be asked to review the legislation affording protection to the industry. Those controlling it cannot expect all the privileges which Parliament has conferred upon it without shouldering some responsibility. Prom correspondence which I have read, honorable senators will see that immediate inquiries should be made to ascertain why John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, which promised to do so much for the Australian people, have been unable to meet the normal demand. 
The Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White),  who has received a number of similar complaints, realized that there was little likelihood of the Australian manufacturers meeting the demand, and arranged for the admission under by-law of up to 13,000 tons of galvanized iron by the end of January. At that time only 8,000 tons had been imported; but, in order to meet the overwhelming demand that had arisen., due to the abnormal activity in the building trade, and the interference with supplies caused by industrial troubles, my honorable colleague arranged for the admission of a further 10,000 tons. That is the only way to meet the demand which, early in the year, increased beyond expectations. 
I understand that shipments are already on the water. There has been no laxity on the part of the Government. 
Under the arrangement made by the Minister for Trade and Customs, the difficulty should be removed. 
.  -  While  Senator Payne  was speaking,  Senator Daly,  who sits in front of me, asked, in an interjection, why the men employed at Lysaghts' galvanized iron works were on strike, and the honorable senator promptly replied, "Ask your friend at your back." The reference was to me. I may explain to the Senate that before the motion for the adjournment of the Senate was moved to-night,  Senator Payne  had the impertinence to ask me how long the employees at Lysaghts had been on strike. I said that I did not know. 
The honorable gentleman intended to use any information which I could give him in his speech to-night. 
With all his native Tasmanian simplicity, the honorable senator came to me for information which, apparently, he intended to use later in  bd3  speech. 
There is another matter which I desire now to bring under the notice of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  Is the right honorable gentleman aware that a prominent member of this chamber, in the course of a private business transaction a few months ago, forgot to add ls. exchange on his cheque which was sent back to him by the bank with a request that he make good the omission? Is he further aware that the honorable senator in question sent the amount of exchange in " O.S." stamps which the bank returned to him with the information that " O.S." stamps were not legal tender, and requesting him, which no doubt he did, to remit ls. ? The other matter has to do with a social gathering held in one of the Senate rooms just before the Christmas vacation. During tho visit to Australia of  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, the Government gave a State dinner in this building, which, by the way, I did not attend, and later  His Excellency  the Governor-General gave a State ball, also in this building. At both social gatherings the usual arrangements were made for "eats" and " drinks ", and I have no doubt that both were quite enjoyable and highly successful functions. Just prior to the Christmas vacation, honorable senators were asked to attend in one of the Senate rooms for the purpose of wishing one another the compliments of the season over a round of drinks. Is it a fact, as has been stated, that the drinks with which this toast was celebrated were the "left overs" from the Duke's ball that had been stowed away in a locker? I am informed that, the honorable senator concerned in the bank exchange incident, as well as the social gathering prior to the Christmas adjournment, was the right honorable the, Leader of the Senate himself. 
Order ! 
Order ! The honorable senator has dealt at some length with what, after all, is a private matter, which should not have been mentioned in this chamber. 
[8.37].  - Did I understand  Senator Dunn  to say that I tendered to a bank " O.S." stamps in payment of1s. exhange on a cheque drawn by me ? 
Then I tell the honorable senatorthat the statement is entirely and absolutely incorrect. I have  never,  on any occasion, tendered to any hank stamps in payment of exchange on a cheque, nor to my knowledge have I ever been asked by a bank to pay exchange that may have been omitted in a cheque drawn by me. I have no knowledge whatever of the incident to which he referred. 
SenatorSampson.  -  In any case, the amount of exchange would be debited to the Minister's account. 
Of course it would. As for the other rigmarole retailed by the honorable senator, I can only say that it is as incorrect as is his story about the cheque exchange.. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
He did not say in the Senate that he baaed the statement on  Smith's Weekly. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is so; but subsequently ho informed me privately that he did. The article in question is headed - 
LAUGH IS ON SIR GEORGE PEARCE. 
Criticizes Bank but Forgot he had Transaction with it. 
The article states that, apparently, at the time in question I owed the bank referred to £5, and that it had sent me a reminder that the amount was due. Honorable senators will probably notice that the amount of exchange mentioned by  Senator Dunn,  namely,1s., would not be the exchange due on a cheque for £5. I. doubt that there is any place in Australia that requires the payment of1s. exchange on a cheque for the amount mentioned. The article states that, upon receipt of the notice, I forwarded the bank, a cheque for £5 without adding exchange, whereupon the bank sent me a reminder and I posted the exchange in "O.S." stamps. The article is carefully worded to give the impression that this was probably a slip on the part of my private secretary, and that there was no dishonest intent, the object of the writer being no doubt to avoid action for libel. But the poison is there. The obvious intention of the article was to discredit, not only myself, but also members of Parliament generally, because there seems to be an impression outside that members of Parliament abuse the privilege which they enjoy in regard to the issue of " O.S." stamps. But for that I should be inclined to treat the statement made by  Senator Dunn  with the contempt that it deserves. I have looked through my private files, not to clear myself, because I do not think that is necessary- 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear! 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.But for the purpose of exposing the contemptible kind of propaganda in which newspapers of this class indulge in connexion with public men. I therefore ask the indulgence of the Senate for a few moments while I reveal so much of my private affairs as to present the facts. It is quite true that my son and I own a farm in Western Australia in connexion with which there is a debt due to the Agricultural Bank - a debt which we took over when we purchased the farm. The newspaper article enables me to determine that the payment due to the bank would be in June of that year, and not in December. I find, from the correspondence on my private file, that on the 21st May, 1934. I instructed my private secretary to write to the bank to ascertain the exact amount falling due in June. On the 29th May I received a reply from the bank giving me the amount of the instalment and interest due on the 30th of that month. In order to allow ample time for my cheque to reach the Katanning Branch, where the business was transacted, and to have it cleared from Perth, I forwarded on the 19th June, a cheque for the full amount, and in my covering letter placed in brackets the words " including 9d. exchange." On the 3rd July I received from the bank an acknowledgment in the following terms :  - 
Referring to your letter of the 19th ult. it is regretted that a small overcharge of 4s.1d. occurred when computing the interest on your account for the half year ended 30th June last. Please note that interest is now calculated every six months in lieu of 181 days and 184 days respectively. An adjusting entry has now been passed for your interest account which places same at 4s.1d. in credit. Will you please note that you allowed 9d. instead of 1s. for exchange on cheque? 
Honorable senators will see that deducting the shortage of 3d. in respect of exchange I had actually not underpaid but overpaid the bank 3s.10d. No " O.S." stamps or stamps of any kind were ever required or used. 
I thought it desirable in the public interest that I should reveal my private affairs to this extent in theSenate, so as to make clear to honorable senators, and, I hope, to the outside public, a contemptible class of journalism that we have in Australia - a class of journalism which distorts facts for the purpose of throwing mud at public men and, derogating public life in Australia. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear ! 
asked the Minister in charge of Territories,  upon notice - 
Has the report by  Dr. Woolnough  on the position of the Arnheim Land Gold Development Company been considered by the Government? 
In view of the early closing of the present session will the Government indicate, before Parliament goes into recess, what action, if any, it intends to take in the public interest as a result of that report? 
What is the total authorized capital of the Arnheim Land Gold Development Company? 
What proportion of the authorized capital has been paid up? 
What are the names of the directors of this company, and what amount has 'been paid by each of them on the shares they hold? 
What remuneration have the directors received as fees or expenses, during their period of office? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson)  has supplied the following answer :  - 
The information sought by the honorable senator is not available at present, but the whole question is under consideration by the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the PrimeMinister,  upon notice - 
What is the present position in regard to the action taken, or proposed to be taken, by the Commonwealth Government in regard to securing a reduction of unemployment amongst the youth of Australia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  has supplied the following answer: - 
The Loan Appropriation (Unemployment Relief) Bill 1935 recently before the Senate provided for a grant of £322,000 to the States  for forestry purposes: The States to contribute to the programme £285,000. In making this money available to the States it was stipulated by the Commonwealth Government that 20 per cent. of the dual contribution (£607,000) should be expended on the employment of persons under 21 years of age. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In regard to the appointments of Mr.R. C. Nance, clerk, Prime Minister's Department, to the position of Divisional Returning Officer for Melbourne Ports, and of  Mr. George  Gelder, postmaster, Box Hill, to the position of Divisional Returning Officer for Wannon, is it considered advisable to appoint officers to the specialized position of divisional returning officer unless they have had extensive training in the electoral branch? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  has supplied the following answer :  - 
Appointments tothe position of divisional returning officer are made under the provisions of the Public Service Act. The appointments of  Mr. R.  C. Nance and  Mr. George  Gelder as divisional returning officers at Melbourne Ports and Wannon, respectively, were made by the Public Service Board in pursuance of its powers under that act. I am advised that in the case of  Mr. Gelder  that officer had long and extensive training in the electoral branch and in the division to which ho has now been appointed divisional returning officer, for which he is particularly fitted. In the case of  Mr. Nance,  this officer has such aptitude, which, with exceptionally varied public service training, leaves no doubt as to his capacity to fill the position with full efficiency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is there any likelihood of any of the present stopping places on the EnglandAustralia air mail route being cut out as  a  result of the recent air-mail conference? 
Will the Minister bear in mind the value of the air mail to the outback centres and also the fact that it was largely due to the efforts of the settlers that the Queensland and Northern Territory Aerial Service was originally formed ? 
Consideration of the proposals discussed at the conference has not advanced sufficiently to enable me to say whether the present stopping places will be affected. 
Yes. . 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that at present there is no parkin Canberra that may be used for the rest and refreshment of residents, such as are found in other cities? 
Would it be possible for theActon nursery of 10 acres to be laid down with lawns between the tree groups, with seats and a bandstand ? 
Is it a fact that the cost of the above improvements is estimated to be small? 
There are a number of areas, both on the north and southsides of the city which have been reserved for purposes of parks. These will be gradually developed as funds become available. 2 and 3. It is not considered that the expenditure involved in the development of the area in the vicinity of the Acton nursery for use as a park, and the erection of a bandstand thereon, would be justified, in view of the fact that owing to its location it would not meet the convenience of residents of all sections of the city. 
This measure should not be allowed to pass without comment. I think that the country is indebted to the Minister for External Affairs  (Senator Pearce)  for the most interesting account which he gave to the Senate yesterday of his recent visit to Norfolk Island. I understand that this is the first occasion on which a member of a Commonwealth Government has visited the island. This very fact is to some extent a criticism of the right honorable gentleman's predecessors, and shows the tendency for Ministers to remain at the central points of Australia rather than go to the outlying regions. 
But many changes of government have occurred since it has been under federal control. The separation of the. magisterial and administrative powers to which the Minister has referred is a wise course to adopt. The Administrator should not also be the fountain head of the judiciary on the island, and we may expect a more satisfactory result in the future through the Administrator being in closer touch with the residents. 
In recent years this Parliament has passed bills relating to the administration of Papua and New Guinea, and in both instances I contended that there should be greater opportunities for the residents of those territories to express their opinions and make known their grievances. Of course, there is a stage of development of any colony when the control must be practically dictatorial, the Administrator having almost complete power ; but I am also aware of the fact that the general attitude of British people is that the residents of such territories should gradually be allowed opportunities to express their views in a parliament of some kind, and should be gradually trained to exercise, in some degree, at any rate, the power of self-government. A feature of the Minister's proposal regarding Norfolk Island which appeals to me is that the members of the advisory council will be elected by the residents, who thus will be given an opportunity to make known their grievances. 
Yesterday, by interjection, I asked the Minister whether it would not be a good thing to apply this method to New Guinea and Papua, and he replied in the negative. He pointed out that Papua had a legislative body, whilst the council of Norfolk Island will be purely an advisory one, adding that the legislative body represented a more advanced stage. Let us consider for a moment the functions of the legislative bodies in New Guinea and Papua. They are substantially the same in each case. In New Guinea there in an Executive Council, which advises and assists the Administrator. It is composed of nine members, who arc appointed by the Governor-General, and hold their places at his pleasure, and eight of whom are officers of the territory, which means, again, that they are very much under the control of the Administrator, who presides and may act in opposition to the advice of the executive council. Then there is a Legislative Council, which consists of the Administrator, the eight official members of the Executive Council and seven non-official members. The. latter are not elected; they are nominated by the Administrator and appointed by the Governor-General, and may be removed by him at any time. 
That may be, but they are all nominated, in effect, by the one individual, and they are so many replicas of him. I am reminded of a certain war-time picture showing that the Cabinet was supposed to be composed of the Prime Minister as seen from twelve different angles. The Administrator presides over this Legislative Council, and he may assent to, withhold assent, or refer to the GovernorGeneral, who may also disallow any ordinance. That system neither gives direct control by the Administrator nor provides any form of parliament for the people. It is simply a body of nominees of the GovernorGeneral, who are nominated at the Administrator's instigation. I am not criticizing any administrator, but the system gives no popular representation whatever, and there is no chance of the people in these particular territories giving effective expression of their views. 
Therefore I am very glad, personally, that the Minister has gone to Norfolk Island. I am convinced that the method of administration to be adopted there will be more satisfactory than the other system to which I have referred. It may be necessary to have a different form of government, in some respects, in the case of a mandated territory, but, if the residents are to have a council with any pretence of control, it is far better that it should be such as is provided for under this bill. The residents, through their elected representatives, should have an opportunity to express their views and state their grievances, even if the council acts in a purely advisory capacity. This is preferable to having a body composed of sixteen or seventeen members all expressing substantially the same official view. There can be no progress in self government with a body of that kind. Under .the system to be put into operation in Norfolk Island, the residents can at least select their best spokesmen, and these can advise the Administrator. I think  that after the Norfolk Islanders have had experience of the proposed system, they will be indeed loth to change over to the other method of which I have spoken, under which there is no election whatever except in accordance with the will of the Administrator. This bill represents a step in the right direction. It gets away from red tape control from a point far removed from the people concerned, and I heartily support it. 
In the course of his clear description of events leading up to the introduction of this measure, the Minister  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  in reply to an interjection by me, stated that the residents were lightly taxed. They claim that their taxes amount to over £7 a head of the population, including, no doubt, women and children. The right honorable senator said that the residents complained about the amount which they had to pay as rates or rental for their land. To what extent is the land held on lease, and are those leases from the Crown or from private owners ? Whether we pay money by way of rates or in direct taxation it must come out of the same pockets. 
I understand that the advisory council proposed for Norfolk Island will have powers similar to those conferred upon the Canberra Advisory Council. That, in effect, means that it will have practically no power except that of giving advice to the Administrator, who will send it on to the Minister with his comments. In his second-reading speech, the Minister mentioned taxation. I do not know what the residents of Norfolk Island are called upon to pay by way of taxation, but it has been a principle of the party on this side of the Senate that there shall be no taxation without representation. Are the residents of Norfolk Island so simple or uneducated that they should not be given the right to elect a body with legislative powers, similar to those granted to legislative bodies in other civilized communities? Have they not at any time sought to secure representation of some description on the ground that they should not be asked to pay taxation without representation? If no direct attempt has been made by the islanders to secure something better than a merely farcical advisory council, I should like to know if the Minister has any knowledge of an agitation among the islanders on those lines. In the past, the Canberra Advisory Council has been practically powerless; if residents of the Federal Capital Territory were afforded an opportunity to do so, they would replace it with a body having wide powers. I understand, also, that the residents of Canberra are practically voteless; they cannot vote for the election of a member of either House of the' Commonwealth Parliament. 
Then the Constitution needs altering. The residents of Canberra pay their taxation just as willingly, or unwillingly, as other people in Australia do, and, because of the principle which I have mentioned, and which is so dear to all good Australian hearts, they should have representation in Parliament. Does the Minister put the residents of Canberra on the same level as the residents of Norfolk Island, or vice versa? I desire this information to ascertain whether or not an effort has been made on the island to secure proper representation. The body to be elected should have far greater power than is to be given to it under this bill. 
I approve of the steps taken by the Minister to make some provision for improving the condition of the Norfolk Islanders, and I compliment him on the very lucid statement he has made with regard to his visit to the island. This bill is a step in the right direction, and must inevitably tend to an improvement of the condition of the islanders and the development of that territory.  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  in an interesting speech, drew a comparison between the form of government proposed for Norfolk Island and the Legislative Council of the Mandated Territory of New Guinea. The honorable senator suggested that the Minister's statement that the Legislative Council of New Guinea is an advance on that which is proposed under this bill is not quite correct. He criticized the personnel and the method of appointment of the New Guinea body. But New Guinea is governed by a legislative council. I should like the honorable senator to try to envisage the difference between Norfolk Island and New Guinea. In New Guinea, which is a very extensive country comprising over 90,000 square miles, it would be practically impossible to hold an election at the present time. In some cases electors would be from 50 to 100 miles apart. There are no roads, and no means of transport other than by the coastal vessels. The present Legislative Council of New Guinea is truly representative in that its members represent various industries in the territory. They are carefully selected, having regard to the particular interests they represent in New Guinea, and, I think, the selection meets with the general approval of residents. So far as I can judge they are practically in the position of an advisory council. Their views are considered by the Administrator, and their recommendations are given due weight by those who are in a position to make suggestions advantageous to the development of New Guinea. The honorable senator has overlooked the fact that whereas Norfolk Island has only a comparatively small area, and its people are in close touch with one another, New Guinea comprises a large area and it would probably take months to get into touch with the whole of the people. I give my hearty support to the bill, and I hope the anticipations of the Minister will be fully realized. 
.- The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has advised honorable senators, if they can spare the time, to visit Norfolk Island; but I remind the right honorable senator that there are restrictions, and that such visits prove expensive. 
I understand that honorable senators are entitled to a free passage, not only to Norfolk Island, but also to Papua and New Guinea, subject to the restriction that they may make only one trip each year. There are a number of islands surrounding the coast of Australia that have to be covered. Only recently a vast stretch of the Antarctic has been added to the dependencies of this country. There are some people who believe that in addition to their parliamentary allowance, members of Parliament are granted free board and lodging in Canberra, the beautiful city, that is all parks, but which has no place where people can quietly rest. 
Order ! 
[11.43]. -  in reply  - I am partly in agreement with what  Senator DuncanHughes  has said regarding representation. I entirely agree with the honorable senator that the system now being, adopted in Norfolk Island is an advance on that of Papua because it gives the residents the right to elect their own representatives. But the matter I referred to was the power of the representative bodies. The powers of the body to be elected in Norfolk Island will be purely advisory, but those of the Legislative Council of Papua are on a much higher plane. That body has legislative powers, and may make ordinances. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Power is given to it to make ordinances with some reservations. Ordinances relating to certain subjects may be vetoed by the Governor-General, but in some respects it has full power. It has greater power than the Norfolk Island Advisory Council will have, but so far as its basis of representation is concerned it is not so advanced. 
Coming to the point raised by  Senator Rae,  I find that I can only give the honorable senator approximate figures. I understand that about two-thirds of the land is held on freehold and the balance on leasehold. Some of the original Pitcairn Islanders obtained freeholds, and as it was the desire of the Government of the day that their land should remain in the possession of their descendants, provision was made that sales of such land could take place only with the approval of the authorities. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. That is continued in order to prevent the descendants of the original islanders parting with their birthright. 
In their petition the islanders mentioned that the taxation imposed on them amounted to approximately £8 per head of the population. That amount, however, includes rates, motor licences, dog tax, and other charges which are not included in the taxation statistics for the Commonwealth. Commonwealth taxation in the rest of Australia amounts to much more per head of the population. It may interest honorable senators to know that the direct taxation imposed by the Commonwealth does not apply to Norfolk Island. 
A rather novel system of rating is in operation in Norfolk Island. A rate for the upkeep of the roads is imposed, but settlers may give so many days' labour on the roads, and the value of that labour is accepted as payment of the rates. The islanders include the value of such labour in their taxation charges. 
In the majority of cases it is leased from the Crown. Most of the freehold is still held by descendants of the original Pitcairn Islanders, because successive governments have discountenanced the sale of that land to outsiders. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. Representations were made to me by deputations and by the Norfolk Island Association that the residents should have a more direct voice in the administraton  of the island generally and should not be restricted to such matters as roads. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. But they wish to be free to express their views on all matters affecting them and to be sure that those views reach the Minister. 
I understand that every member of this Parliament is entitled to a free passage to Norfolk Island by the subsidized steamers. I do not know how frequently that privilege may be exercised, but probably only once a year. 
I have just received particulars of the taxation in force in Norfolk Island. It is as follows: - 
The revenue of Norfolk Island for 1933-34 was £10,244. The amount was made up as follows :  - 

<graphic href="146332193504055_7_0.jpg"></graphic>

The expenditure during the same period was £11,604 17s. 3d. 
The amount paid by residents of the territory, which might be regarded as taxation, was, therefore, £3,7431s. 4d. (including the miscellaneous item under that heading). Distributed over the population of 1,198 persons (men, women and children), the amount would he approximately £3 per head. If the distribution is confined to adults (male and female), say 800, the amount per head would be £4 10s. 
The only other item that might in any way be regarded as taxation is the requirement under the Executive Council ordinance for persons between the ages of 21 and 55 to pay on demand by the Executive Council an amount at the rate of 8s. per day for not less than nine days nor more than fifteen days. (Labour may be performed in lieu of this payment.) 
The maximum amount a resident could be required to pay would, therefore, be £10 10s. per annum. 
I commend the bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 6 agreed to. 
 I move - 
That the following new clause be added: - 
After section 16 of the principal  act, the  following section is inserted: - " (17) All mining ordinances for Norfolk Island shall be based on the Queensland mining acts." 
There are possibilities of great mineral developments in Norfolk Island. 
SenatorDUNN. - The right honorable gentleman himself does not know what is under the ground. It might be possible to put some Western Australian senators - I have one especially in mind - under the ground there. 
 Order! 
The honorable senator must withdraw that remark. 
P.O., K.C.V.O., &amp;c, who is the political protector of Norfolk Island, will heed the pearls of wisdom which are falling from my lips and accept the amendment. 
The honorable senator is not entitled to make personal remarks in dealing with this clause. 
The honorable senator's closing remark could be construed as personal. I am the judge of whether or not a remark is personal. 
It is my duty to see that the Standing Orders are observed, and that the business of this chamber is conducted in an orderly manner. 
I ask the honorable senator to proceed. 
I suggest that the honorable senator amend his amendment to read - 
After section 16 of the principal act the following section be inserted: - ''17. All mining ordinances shall be based on the Queensland Mining Acta." 
Amendment -  by leave  - amended accordingly. 
Honorable senators on this side of the chamber have no. objection to the insertion of the proposed new clause moved by  Senator Dunn.  Some time ago  Senator Rae  rather ridiculed a suggestion of mine that inquiries should be conducted into the possibility of mineral development in Antarctica, but later Iwas informed in an answer to a question that extensive mineral resources, and particularly coal deposits, exist in the Antarctic. As the quantity of gold yet undiscovered is probably 20 times that already mined, it is possible that great mineral wealth is also awaiting development on Norfolk Island. The island is small but, as a result of scientific developments, it is possible to mine under the sea if that should be necessary. Norfolk Island exports bananas which enter into competition with the Queensland product, mixed fruits and also potatoes. Its potential mineral wealth should be protected, and some provision made as to the conditions under which mining shall be conducted. 
[12.5].  -  The Government cannot accept the amendment. It is entirely unnecessary at this juncture, and when a mining ordinance for Norfolk Island has to be promulgated the whole of the mining laws, including those of Queensland, will be examined. At present that is being done by the Department of the Interior in connexion with an amended mining ordinance for the Northern Territory. That, if necessary, could, with certain modifications, be applied to Norfolk Island. The committee will agree that we should not tie our hands by providing that only the mining laws in operation in Queensland shall be adopted. 
[12.10].- The Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill which was expected from another place has not yet reached the Senate. I, therefore, suggest that the sitting be suspended until 3.30 p.m., bywhich time the bill should be here. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.15 to3.30p.m. 

[3.31].- I lay on the table of the 'Senate the report of the Australian delegation to the fifteenth Assembly of the League of Nations, held at Geneva in September, 1934, and move - 
That the paperbe printed. 
A perusal of the report will indicate that, generally speaking, this Assembly was not as spectacular as some of its predecessors. This was due largely to the fact that the all-important international question of disarmament is being dealt with by a separate conference. 
People sometimes are apt to become impatient at the delay in bringing about a successful conclusion to the work of the Disarmament Conference. This question, however, has now become so involved, and so integrally concerned with the political problems of the day, that progress is necessarily slow and halting. But it must not be supposed that no progress is being made. When the General Commission met  on  29th May, 1934, the outlook for a disarmament agreement certainly appeared hopeless. The conversations initiated by  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom in January, 1934, had broken down, and the budget figures of most of the Great Powers showed an enormous increase in expenditure. But the imminent danger of relapse into unrestricted competition of armament in its most evil form if the conference failed, was a spectre which necessitated a final effort. Fortunately a compromise was reached in the acceptance of a resolution that Germany be invited to return to the conference, and that an immediate disarmament convention was necessary. Certain committees to deal with the question of guarantees, supervision, air forces, and manufacture of arms were appointed, and the Bureau was instructed to settle political questions as they arose and to facilitate Germany's re-entry to Geneva. 
The work of these committees has been continued ever since, and a considerable advance has been made in some of the questions under review, particularly that relating to the trade in and private manufacture of arms, following the submission of a draft convention by the United States of America. In the meantime, parallel and supplementary conversations within the framework of the League have been continued, with a view to a general settlement of the outstanding political issues, and for obtaining a basis of security, without which it is recognized no substantial disarmament is possible. For the first time, the Powers are looking at these matters from a realistic point of view, and despite the present undercurrent of uncertainty and suspicion apparent in Europe, there is hope that something real and tangible in the field of disarmament will be eventually achieved. 

 Dr. Benes. of Czechoslovakia, who opened, the Assembly, said that the League was generally debited with a number of international occurrences contrary to the policy of Geneva. The 
League, he said, was blamed for the present -state of the Disarmament Conference. It was wrong, he thought, to place the reponsibilities which belonged primarily to individual States upon the shoulders of an international institution which, as a collective international organ unprovided with any direct executive authority of its own, could only be held responsible indirectly and in a secondary capacity. 
The report shows a considerable extent pf steady and useful work on the part of the League of Nations during the year under review. This is most noticeable, in connexion with the control of the illicit drug traffic. The League claims tha.t, under the Drug Limitation Convention, of 1931, for the first time the legitimate trade of the world in narcotics has been carried on in accordance with a world plan drawn up. under the. auspices of the League and legally binding on the parties to the Convention. The results are, regarded as highly satisfactory. The legitimate factories, are now properly supervised, and the next task of the League is to concentrate on efforts towards the disco.very and, elimination of clandestine factories. 
It will be observed from the report that,, while emphasizing- the value of the impartial, study of various international' economic problems,  Mr. Bruce,  who was the leader of the Australian delegation at this Assembly, stressed the importance qf not attempting to deal' with too many problems simultaneously. One question which he suggested as- particularly suitable for investigation by an international body was the increasing and, in many cases,, excessive agricultural protection in industrial countries. He pointed out that the present trend towards extreme economic nationalism was retarding world recovery, which was dependent upon arevival of world trade, and that extreme nationalistic measures could only result in a further impoverishment of the world'. 
The outstanding event of the Assembly was the admission of' the United Soviet Socialist Republic as a member of the League of Nations, and the granting to that State- of a permanent seat on the Council. Other new members admitted were Afghanistan and Ecuador. Thisaddition to the strength of the League of 
Nations goes some way towards counterbalancing the recent withdrawal of Germany and Japan. 
The year just closed was quite  a  momentous one for the League. It scored a considerable success by the peaceful settlement of the territorial dispute between Colombia and Peru. League machinery was also highly successful in the threatened trouble between Yugoslavia and Hungary as the result of the assassinations at Marseilles last year. 
Another practical achievement of the League was. the preparation for the Saar plebiscite, which was held in. January last without any untoward event, and the measures taken for the handing over of the territory to Germany. 
The successful handling of these political issues, and the extension of its humanitarian and social activities, have done much to increase the prestige and authority of the League. 
The Commonwealth's relations with the League have, expanded of recent years-, particularly by the representation of Australia on the. Council as a nonpermanent member, the period of which! will not expire until September, 19&lt;36-. Moreover, the number of multilateral conventions drawn up under the auspices- of the League pf Nations to which Australia is becoming- a party from year to- year is increasing. These conventions are part of the machinery for the preservation of the peace of the- world or the. improvement, of social, political, and economic conditions. 
Unfortunately, the dispute between Bolivia and Paraguay has not yet been satisfactorily settled, but the League is to be commended' on its firm action in connexion with the arms embargo placed upon the parties. This, however, was removed recently in respect of Bolivia, owing to acceptance by that country of the recommendations of the Special Assembly for the settlement of- the dispute.. It is to be hoped that the fruitless waste of lives and property with the resultant economic disorganization willi soon, be brought to- an end by the conciliatory efforts now being made under* the auspices of the League. 
While there still persist elements of anxiety that we cannot ignore, it is encouraging to note among the stabilizing;  influences the steady growth in the efficacy of League methods. The view of the Government, and, I believe, of most of the people of Australia, is that the League of Nations has performed, and is performing, a very great service to humanity by the frequent meetings of representatives of nations of the world, who discuss and determine methods of international co-operation for mutual benefit, and for the cause of international peace and security. This must conduce to a better understanding among peoples, and lead to the gradual removal of acute nationalistic tendencies, suspicions and jealousies, and so provide a real and stable foundation for international peace and goodwill. 
.- As the report deals with a number of important' matters in which we are interested, I should like to have the opportunity to peruse it before continuing the debate. I therefore ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
[3.45]. - I move - 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
The Government has introduced this bill as a measure of assistance to distressed farmers to help them recover from the position in which the slump in prices has placed them, despite their heroic efforts to carry on. The primary producers of Australia have contributed in no small measure to the partial recovery of Australia from the depression, and to the maintenance of Australia's credit during the depths of the depression. The States have not been inactive in providing relief. They have helped the farmers, by means of stay orders and protection certificates, to withstand pressure from their creditors, and they have also pro*vided advances for seasonal operations and sustenance to&gt; enable the farmers to carry on from year to year. These measures do not, however, go to the root of the trouble - the debt burden is still there. The position of the farmer reminds me of the lines of Will Carleton, America's farmer poet- - 
We work thro' summer, we work thro' the fall, 
But the mortgage works the hardest of all. 
It is known from the experience of State schemes that many creditors would be willing to accept a composition arrangement which would return in cash a proportion of the capital that in many cases is in jeopardy. Lack of funds has prevented the States from doing anything in the way of debt adjustment by means of compositions. In some cases, where it has been possible to obtain funds from private sources, the State authorities administering farmers' relief have been able to effect very satisfactory arrangements with, creditors. Examples of such arrangements show that, while it is possible in many cases to effect arrangements with secured pr partly secured creditors by negotiation and adjustment, the provision of cash is essential in compounding debts. They also demonstrate clearly that the Commonwealth Government can, by granting financial assistance for the purpose, put debt adjustment within the reach of the great majority of farmers. 
In the absence of statistical data the magnitude of farmer's debts is largely a matter of surmise. It is estimated there are about 230,000 farmers. The Royal Commission on Wheat made a rough estimate that the debts of wheat-growers amount to £150,000,000 ; but no information is available from which to make an estimate of the debts of all farmers. There are a number of farmers who are in a position to carry on and look after their own debts. There are also .some who are hopelessly involved, and could not be assisted to any good purpose. 
The task of providing assistance over such a wide field is not one to be lightly undertaken; but, obviously, it is one beyond the powers of the States to face alone. It is also too big a task for the 
Commonwealth itself. Clearly anything the Commonwealth could do would best be done by some measure of financial assistance in co-operation with the States, whose many activities bring them into close relations with farmers, particularly those requiring assistance. Since the formation of the present Government, the matter has been discussed at considerable length with the States, and it was one of several important matters considered at the initial meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council, where general agreement on principle was secured. As a result of these discussions, the Government has brought down this definite proposal to provide £12,000,000, by way of grants to the States, for the purpose of adjustment of farmers' debts. 
It is not proposed that the Commonwealth grant shall supplant the State schemes, nor does the Commonwealth intend to invade the States' sphere of action so far as it is concerned with details of administration.We desire only to supplement the State schemes, and to make them more effective by providing funds to implement compositions with creditors. Although it has been necessary to lay down certain conditions which are specifically mentioned in the bill, the Commonwealth, in its original discussions, and in all subsequent discussions with the States on the proposal, has indicated that three main principles would have to be observed, namely: - 
That the grant would be made available for the purpose of adjustment of farmers' debts. 
That the sums granted by the Commonwealth must be used for the assistance of individual farmers and. not for the purpose of relieving State budgets. 
That the farmers assisted out of Commonwealth funds must have a reasonable prospect of successfully carrying on farming operations. 
I come now to an explanation of the provisions of the bill itself. Speaking generally, the bill follows the lines agreed upon between the Commonwealth and the States in conference in December last. At the outset, I wish to emphasize that the proposed assistance is for debt adjustment only, and not for rural rehabilita tion generally. Some of the States have made requests that the Commonwealth proposal should be modified to enable the States to use part of the moneys for general assistance to primary producers. The Government carefully considered these requests. As the fundamental object of the Commonwealth proposal was, and is, to provide financial assistance for farmers' debt relief, it was clearly impossible for the Government to agree to the fund being used for purposes other than that for which the proposals were originally planned. The Government regretted, therefore, that it found itself unable to agree to the requests of the States referred to. Moreover, the fund itself is insufficient to do anything more than provide for some measure of debt relief. 
It is proposed to borrow £12,000,000, and to make that sum available as a free grant to the States for the purpose of adjusting farmers' debts. The borrowing of this sum is dependent on the market, and must be undertaken in conjunction with borrowing for works programmes. It is proposed, therefore, to spread the grant over a period of years. The task of examining farmers' debts is necessarily a formidable one, and will occupy some time. The conditions in the various States differ so materially as regards the nature and complexities of fanners' debts that it was found impossible to lay down a uniform scheme of procedure which would produce equitable results in every State. It was clear that the Commonwealth itself could not administer the fund. The activities of the Commonwealth do not bring them into direct touch with farmers. On the other hand, the activities of the States, through their lands departments, agricultural departments, closer settlement boards, farmers' relief boards, &amp;c, bring them into regular touch with a great number of farmers. In particular, the machinery of the Farmers Relief Board is suitable for administering a scheme of debt relief. Consequently, the Commonwealth Government was convinced that it would be a mistake for it to set out to administer the fund itself. The administration and distribution of the fund must, therefore, be necessarily left  to the individual States, and the detailed schemes will have to be approved by the respective State parliaments. 
In these circumstances, it is impossible to prescribe in the bill a detailed scheme for uniform adoption, or to impose any unduly onerous conditions. The conditions attached to the grant as embodied in the bill are, therefore, of a general nature. It is provided that the grant must be applied for the purpose of discharging, in whole or in part, the debts of farmers by means of compositions or schemes of arrangements" between farmers and any or all of their creditors. " Farmer " is defined in the bill, and includes the owner, lessee or occupier of land engaged in farming operations, on that land, embracing farming generally, agricultural, dairying, horticultural, pastoral and grazing operations. 
No payment is to be made for the benefit of a farmer unless, as the result of any composition or scheme arranged, he will have a reasonable prospect of successfully carrying on operations. The grant is not to be used for those farmers who are in a reasonable position to look after their own debts. Consequently, the authority administering the scheme must be satisfied that some discharge of debt is necessary to ensure that the farmer will continue to carry on farming operations and to give him a reasonable prospect of carrying on those operations successfully. 
In cases where a State makes advances to farmers to secure a debt composition and the advances are subject to repayments, it is proposed that the repayments shall be applied for the debt adjustment purposes of other farmers. In such cases a revolving fund will operate for the benefit of farmers. 
Careful consideration was given to the question of debts due by farmers to the Crown, which represent, in the aggregate, a substantial sum. As the Commonwealth must raise moneys in" the market to provide the grant, it was felt that it would be wrong to enable State governments to participate in the borrowed moneys by way of compositions of their own debts. By the exclusion of State debts, the fund will go further in providing relief from private indebtedness. This will, of course, not prevent a State or State authority from compounding its own debts for the purpose of securing a satisfactory composition with all creditors in the interests pf the farmer. After full consideration of the matter from all angles, it was decided that all States' debts should be excluded from participation in the fund. No payment will, therefore, be made under a composition or scheme of arrangement in respect of any debt due or accruing due to the Commonwealth or a State or to a governmental authority. It is further provided that none of the moneys shall be used for administration expenses; these must be borne by the States. Subject to these general conditions, each State will undertake the complete administration and distribution of the funds, and will -be responsible for the detailed scheme under which the moneys are distributed. 
I shall now deal with the manner in which the £12,000,000 will be allocated. Owing to the complexities of the debt structure, and the insufficiency of the available data, it was found impossible for the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers to agree upon a basis of allocation between the States. It was eventually decided by the Commonwealth that the Commonwealth Statistician, after consulting with the State Statisticians, should be requested to recommend a basis of allocation, having regard to all relevant factors, including the rural debt situation in each State. Various suggestions were put forward by the State Statisticians for the consideration of the Commonwealth Statistician, but he reported that, in his opinion, no one of the suggested methods could be worked out in practice in such a way as to satisfy the reasonable claims of the representatives of all the States, or to produce what, in his opinion, would be a completely equitable allocation. 
The Statistician arrived at this conclusion after an exhaustive survey of all the statistical material available on the subject of rural debts - which was manifestly inadequate for the purpose of allocating the grant - and after a detailed analysis of statistics in each State relating to pre-depression and depression values of rural production, relative total populations, farm populations, numbers  of master farmers, numbers of rural holdings, and movements in prices and costs of production. 
Having examined this material very exhaustively, the Statistician proceeded to work out an allocation on the basis which seemed to him least open to objection, either in principle or by the interested parties. The underlying feature of this method was the estimated loss to farmers in value of rural production due to depression prices, which losses brought about the debt difficulties. On the basis of normal average production in each State, the loss was calculated by taking the average of prices for a group of depression years compared with the average of prices for a group of pre-depression years. The losses, as thus ascertained for the different branches of rural industry in the several States, were used as a primary basis of allocation. The final allocation was arrived at after giving weight to other relevant factors, such as changes in relative volumes of production, available data relating to debts due to the Crown and private creditors, relative proportions of land leased from the Crown in each State, &amp;c. 
Finally, the Statistician suggested that on the basis thus arrived at, £10,000,000 should be allocated now, leaving £2,000,000 in reserve to correct any anomalies that might become apparent under this method in the event of more adequate data being forthcoming later. The £10,000,000 was allocated as follows :  - 

<graphic href="146332193504055_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Government has decided to accept the proposals of the Statistician in general principle. The bill accordingly provides for the allocation of £10,000,000 on the lines suggested. A further provision is inserted that the balance of £2,000,000 will be allocated on the same basis as the £10,000,000 subject to the reservation that, on the basis of the information furnished by the States prior to the 30th June, 1936, the Treasurer may vary the allocation of the £2,000,000 if he considers such variation would be proper. 
It is the definite intention of the Government that the amount of Commonwealth asistance shall be strictly limited to £12,000,000. The States at the outset must recognize this fact in the distribution of their quotas, as no further funds will be provided (by the Commonwealth. 
In view of the fact that it is proposed that the States shall administer their own schemes, it is not practicable, nor is it desirable, that the Commonwealth should police the detailed distribution of the amounts granted to the various States. It is necessary, however, for the Commonwealth to be satisfied that the conditions of the grant are complied with. Provision has accordingly been made that the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth and each State will submit certificates every six months, stating whether there has been any breach of the conditions of the grant. Should any breach come to the knowledge of the AuditorGeneral of either the State or the Commonwealth, such breach must be reported to the Commonwealth immediately, whereupon suitable action will be taken. 
In conclusion, I may state that the extent to which the money is used will be influenced by the present-day value of the farmers' assets and the earning capacity of their land; but, be the amount large or small, it is sincerely hoped that it will assist materially in rehabilitating those farmers who have striven manfully to keep going despite appalling burdens of financial indebtedness. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - In conformity with the sessional order, I formally put the question - 
Thatthe Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
  Senator Brown  asked me a question yesterday on the subject of the treatment of beef by the De Raeve process. I have now had an opportunity to look into this matter and find that on the 16th November, 1933, I informed the honorable senator that at my instigation the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research had already reported upon this process; also that the council did not think that any useful purpose would be served by a further investigation of the process unless substantial improvements had been effected since it was examined. I promised that if such  improvements had been made and full details were submitted to me, I would consider whether I would arrange for a further expert opinion to be obtained. On the 29th June, 1934, the matter was again referred to by the honorable senator when I gave a similar undertaking to that given by me on the 16th November, 1933,. but I intimated that up to that date further details had not been supplied to me. No further information has 'been submitted to me since that date. 
If the honorable senator will read the  Hansard  report he will find that my statement is correct. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 4.6 p.m. 
Is the Minister for External Affairs in a position to make a statement concerning the present international situation in Europe before the Senate terminates its sittings? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE. -  by leave  -  Senator Duncan-Hughes  intimated last week that it was his intention to-day to ask me a question on this subject, and I thought it advisable to have prepared a comprehensive statement on European affairs, believing that, although honorable senators read the cabled newspaper reports of the progress of events, it is desirable that they should have before them a complete picture of the situation to-day so that they may be better able to understand future developments. 
The honorable senator, in requesting information on the general situation in. Europe, has raised a matter of paramount importance at the present time. As a member of the League of Nations, and as a signatory of the Kellogg Pact, Australia, and indeed, none of the dominions, can remain disinterested in European affairs. Unrest, instability, war or the threat of war, in any part of the world to-day has wide repercussions, and the years since the great war have emphasized how dependent is our wellbeing and happiness on general peace and international understanding in other parts of the world. 
To enable us to appreciate broadly what is happening in Europe at the moment, it -is advisable to recall that, arising out of the experiences of the world war, there grew an overwhelming conviction that definite action had to be taken to prevent another such calamity, and as the policies expressed in the armaments race preceding the war had been regarded as one of its contributory causes, the settlement at the Versailles Conference included measures for the general limitation of armaments. As a first step, the armaments of the defeated powers were drastically reduced, and by article 8 of the League of Nations Covenant the signatories agreed that the maintenance of peace required the reduction of national armaments to the lowest point consistent with national safety. The nations accepted the principle that they ought to settle their disputes by th* pacific means provided in the Covenant, and that security should be assured, not by the weight of armaments, but by collective measures against any declared aggression. 
In the realm of naval disarmament, a considerable measure of success was achieved at the Washington conference in 1922, when the five principal naval powers, Great Britain, the United States of America, Japan, France and Italy, agreed to reduce and limit battleships and aircraft carriers. Subsequently, limitations applicable to light vessels were agreed to at the London Conference of 1930 by Great Britain, the United States of America and Japan. The beneficial results of these two conferences lasted until last year, when the question of naval disarmament again became acute owing to the provision in both treaties for a conference in 1935 to determine the form of new agreements before the expiration of the treaties in December, 1936. On the initiative of Great Britain, preliminary conversations were held last year in London between the interested powers. The demand of Japan for equality of ratios with Great Britain and the United States, proved a stumbling block, and proceedings were adjourned on the 19th December last without tangible results. Although it had been generally anticipated, the notice of termination by Japan at the end of December, 1934, of the "Washington agreement, introduced into the situation a disquieting factor which particularly affects Australia, and when the United States of America and Japan both announced large increases in their current ship-building programmes, fears were raised of a new and disastrous competition in naval armaments between these powers. 
Despite these recent events, it is indisputable that the Washington agreements proved a success over a considerable number of years. This is regarded as being largely due to the fact that agreement on naval disarmament was accompanied by a political settlement on Pacific and Far Eastern questions. Where there is no initial political accord, the possibility of obtaining agreement on disarmament is almost negligible. This is clearly illustrated by the negative results of the almost continuous study and negotiation for the reduction of land and air armaments during the last decade. 
One of the inevitable legacies of the war was that of two overmastering motives - on one side mistrustful apprehension, and on the other impatience with the fetters imposed by the peace treaties - which find vocal expression in the rival demands for security and -equality. Expressed simply, one group demands that security by guarantees and by insistence on the  status quo  and that adherence to peace treaty settlements must be attained before disarmament can be agreed to. The other group believes that a substantial measure of disarmament will automatically bring about security, and that any agreement on disarmament must be based on complete equality of rights. The whole difficulty has been to reconcile these two conflicting views. 
Germany gave notice of withdrawal from the League, and actually withdrew from the Disarmament Conference, in October, 1933, because it considered Geneva methods were inadequate for the solution of the problem, and because it was confronted with the suggestion that it should be subjected to a probationary period of several years before the equality of rights it claimed would commence to operate. Germany then embarked on a policy of re-armament and from this time on the topic of disarmament was changed to re-armament. As an outcome of the general fear and mistrust engendered, practically every State embarked on a policy of increased armament expenditure, and this in turn lessened the possibilities of reaching an early decision. 
The imminent danger of unrestricted competition of armaments caused Great Britain to redouble its efforts to secure agreement. Although a draft convention had been accepted as a basis of discussion in 1932, and agreement had been reached with regard to the abolition of chemical warfare and civilian bombing, wide differences pf opinion, both as to principles and details, along with the prevailing instability, precluded any hope of a general agreement. 
On the 29th January, 1934, Great Britain presented a note to the Main Powers setting out the position which had been reached,' and the lines on which agreement seemed possible, and warned the Powers of the chaos which would ensue if the armament race, which was so clearly evident, gained momentum. In the debates in the House of Commons on this note the Government spokesman said that time was the essence of any convention, and that if no agreement could he reached, Great Britain would be forced to reconsider its own defence position. The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs said - " We are the one Great Power that set an example by unilateral reduction of armaments, and this country has disarmed to the edge of risk In this respect, it might be noted that between 1926 and 1934 the expenditure of the United Kingdom on naval armaments had decreased by 16 per cent., while in the same period increases by other main Powers were from 10 to 197 per cent. 
In April, 1934, the German Government stated that it was prepared to accept the British Memorandum as a basis of a convention, subject to certain modifications. At this time, Germany was prepared to limit her army to 300,000 men, and probably would have accepted a lower figure, was agreeable to international supervision over its armaments, and in respect of air machines desired 50 per cent, of the strength of France. It appeared possible that France would be disposed to discuss a new plan on some such basis, but the publication of the German defence estimates in April, 1934, which showed an increase from £51,000,000 in 1933 to £77,000,000, confirmed French opinion that Germany was determined to re-arm rapidly, despite the peace treaties. In a reply to a British note on 10th April, 1934, France refused to state what minimum guarantees it would be prepared to accept as a basis, and said it was now idle to discuss guarantees. In my statement on Friday on the Report of the Fifteenth Assembly of the League of Nations, I indicated the steps which have been taken by the Disarmament Commission since that date. 
We come now to more recent events. Since June of last year, France has been endeavouring to obtain acceptance of its proposals for the Eastern Locarno Treaty of Mutual Guarantee, generally referred to as the " Eastern Pact ". This proposal is one of regional assistance designed to guarantee the frontiers of the States concerned by common action against any aggressor, and is intended to bring in France, Russia, Czechoslovakia, the Baltic States, Poland and Germany. Germany, on being approached, expressed agreement with the underlying principles of mutual guarantee, but stated that it could not participate in any kind of international security system so long as the other Powers contested Germany's equality of rights with regard to armaments. - 
Poland also is hesitant about the acceptance of this Pact. Because of its geographical position it would 'be almost impossible for Poland to avoid Being drawn into any conflict, arising in Eastern Europe, and by virtue of its non-aggression treaties with both Russia and Germany, it does not wish to sign any new pact which might estrange either of these Powers. 
In January of this year a development having an important bearing on the general situation was the Rome Agreement between France and Italy, which marked a distinct advance in the cause of European peace. 
A year ago Italy and Germany were in accord, but the Nazi propaganda in Austria, the events which led up to the death of Herr  Dollfus,  and the uncertainty arising out of the German rearmament, brought about a complete change of mind in Rome. That the two nations, France and Italy, who had been estranged since, the Great War settlement, and whose policies and interests both in Europe and North Africa had constantly clashed during the last twelve years, should have embarked on a treaty of amity and a significant new friendship, was regarded in Europe as a valuable contribution to a general settlement. The agreement provides for common action against any nation endeavouring to interfere with Austria's independence, and for opposition to any change in existing frontiers through violence. The treaty also settles the long-standing dispute over their respective North African colonies, and gives Italy certain concessions in the Abyssinian Zone. The privileged status of Italian nationals in Tunisia is to be continued for a number of years, and Italy will also acquire a piece of the Sahara to the south of Libya. By another declaration the two governments hope to guarantee, by a multilateral agreement open to signature by all States contiguous to Austria, and subsequently by all States which are interested, the independence and integrity of Austria and neighbouring States. The wish has been expressed that all the central and. south-eastern European States would adhere, and that Germany would become a party to both this and the Eastern Pact. 
France and Italy were anxious that the United Kingdom would participate directly in this so-called Danubian Pact, but the United Kingdom was of the opinion that the declarations of February and September of 1934 made it quite clear to Europe that France, Italy, and the United Kingdom would consult in case of need on the Austrian situation. While the new proposed pact had the approval and sympathy of the United Kingdom, the British Government stated that it could not undertake fresh commitments in Central Europe. 
The next main step in the efforts to secure peace in Europe took the form of conversations between Great Britain and France, who, in a joint communique issued on the 3rd February, 1935, stated they had- agreed ' that neither Germany nor any other Power whose armaments has been defined by the peace treaties was entitled by unilateral action to modify those obligations and limitations, but that, if by means of security pacts a general agreement could be reached between Germany and the other Powers Concerned regarding armaments, then the abrogation of Part 5 of the Treaty of Versailles would form part of a general settlement, it being understood that Germany's return to the League was also essential. 
An important part of the AngloFrench communique was the suggestion for an international Aerial Agreement - regional agreements of mutual assistance for Western Europe, in case of aerial aggression on the part of any of the signatories. By this proposed agreement, the parties would undertake to give immediate aerial assistance to any signatory who might be the victim of unprovoked aggression. The idea underlying the plan is an extension of the Locarno " Treaty of Mutual Guarantee " of 1925, by which France, Germany and Belgium agreed not to go to war with each other, but to submit all disputes between them to peaceful settlement, while all five signatories pledged themselves, severally and collectively, to guarantee the maintenance of the territorial  status quo,  particularly the Franco-Belgian-German frontiers, established by the Treaty of Versailles. Italy and Belgium were favorably impressed by the Franco-British proposals, but, as in the case of the Borne Agreement, the attitude of Germany was the predominant factor. The German reply, which was made available on the 15th February, 1935, was to the effect that Germany concurred with the desire to assure peace in Europe, was desirous of more thoroughly examining the recommendations, and welcomed the suggestion for an aerial Locarno, but expressed the desire to clarify preliminary questions of principle by means of separate conversations with the governments concerned before taking part in any multilateral negotiations. 
Germany stated that it was desirous of entering into a direct exchange of views with the British Government. Practically nothing was said about the Eastern Pact, the Danube Pact, the Armaments Convention, or Germany's return to the League. Germany also informed  His  Majesty's  Government in the United Kingdom that it was awaiting fresh proposals concerning disarmament, and that the return to Geneva would only be the last step after its requirements has been satisfied. In accordance with this suggestion for direct conversations, arrangements were made for the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Sir John Simon)  and the Lord Privy Seal,  Mr. Anthony  Eden, to visit Berlin, and subsequently for visits to Moscow, Warsaw, and Prague, with the object of promoting understanding and paving the way for a general peace settlement plan which would be acceptable to all powers. On the 11th March the British White Paper on Defence policy was published. This paper emphasized that peace on a permanent footing is still, as ever, the principal aim of British foreign policy, since the main defence of the Empire depends upon the maintenance of peace; but events have proved that such aims cannot be achieved by unilateral disarmament. After indica.ting the means pursued by the British Government for the preservation of peace, the paper went on to state that the fact- that causes of friction do exist and that nations are still prepared to use force must be faced. Consequently, adequate defences are required to protect the Empire, its trade routes and the food supply of its peoples. Risks have been deliberately run to secure peace, but the British example has not been followed by other nations, and it has now been decided that adequate armaments are necessary to preserve peace, to maintain security, and to deter aggression. 
Then came the German announcement of the 16th March of the adoption of conscription, to provide an army of 500,000 men organized in 36 divisions. This declaration, following an official intimation of the creation of an air force, disallowed under part 5 of the Versailles Treaty, introduced new circumstances and caused widespread consternation. The United Kingdom, in a note, protested against these decisions, and drew attention to the London communique and the German reply, indicating a desire to clarify the position. The note added that  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom was unwilling to abandon any opportunity to promote a general understanding, and asked if the visit to Berlin for the purposes agreed on was still desired. The German Government, in reply, expressed its wish for the arrangements to stand, and as a consequence the tension was eased considerably. 
As honorable senators are aware, the visits to the capital cities mentioned took place last week, but they will appreciate that it would be inadvisable to indicate the outcome of the conversations, in view of the delicate situation still obtaining, and because  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom was, in fact, the confidant of the powers concerned. Honorable senators will also realize that the United Kingdom Government has not, and, indeed, cannot have at this stage any new disarmament policy. The whole situation has altered, and questions previously regarded as settled are again in the melting pot. 
The main concern of the United Kingdom at this moment is to obtain the views of the respective governments on the proposals mentioned in this statement, namely the Eastern Pact, the 
Danubian Pact, Aerial Locarno Pact, and armaments, and to ascertain the requirements in respect of what are regarded as adequate security measures. Such a survey is necessary prior to the conference to be held at Stresa, in North Italy, between Italy, France, and the United Kingdom, and as a preliminary to the important debates at Geneva on the 15th April, whenFrance will formally raise the subject of German re-armament. 
I trust that this broad survey will give to honorable senators a better picture of the present position, and enable them to follow more clearly future developments. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate any statement to make as to the conference between the Governments of the Commonwealth and South Australia regarding the construction of the Red Hill to Port Augusta railway ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.A statement will be made when the bill is presented to the Senate. 
I second the motion. Many years have passed since I first met  Mr. Watkins,  and long before our meeting I knew much of him and his work on behalf of the industrialists of Australia. He was  a  big figure in the Labour movement of New South Wales in its early and strenuous fightingdays, and the people of Newcastle showed their confidence in him by returning him first of all to the State Parliament in 1894, and later to the Parliament of the Commonwealth. He thus served them continuously as their representative for 40 years. We  all  respected and admired him  as a  genial personality and a genuine good fellow. I and my party join with honorable senators opposite in offering our sympathy to his bereaved relatives. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation -  upon notice - 
In regard to the recently published statement of the  chairman  of theRepatriation Commission concerning the alleged psychological condition and physical deterioration, as a result of war, of those who served in the Commonwealth Forces sent abroad, and to the Minister's reply thereto - 
Has the Minister read the later pronouncement of Lieutenant-Colonel C. A. Courtney, late principal medical officer of the Repatriation Commission, as reported in the. Melbourne  Star  of 30th March? 
If so, will the Minister consider the advisability of appointing a committee of qualified persons for the purpose of examining the position and reporting on actual conditions, so that, if necessary, provision may be made for individuals who, by reason of. their service, are handicapped in their endeavours to enter avenues of normal employment. 
The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
The statements made by the former principal medical officer of the Repatriation Commission have been read. The  chairman  of the Repatriation Commission has been asked to refer the question to the present medical officer and then submit a report covering all phases of the matter. 
[3.40].- I move- 
That the bill he now read a second time. 
This bill and the three other measures dealing with the sales tax with which the Senate have just dealt are of a cognate nature, and I suggest that it will be convenient if the second-reading debate on the bill now before the Senate be taken to cover all of them. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - Over a number of years it has been the practice of the Senate to deal with cognate bills in the manner suggested. I propose to allow a similar course on this occasion. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.This legislation arises because the High Court decided, on the 13th December, 1934, that second-hand goods, are not subject to sales tax. After careful consideration of that judgment, the Government decided to provide authority to retain the tax collected on such goods prior to the date of the judgment of the High Court, and to abandon future taxation of such goods, except in regard to leases. .Consequently, sales tax will not be collected on second-hand goods sold after the 13th December, 1934, and any tax paid since that date will be refunded. 
Of the three bills introduced in this connexion, the Sales Tax Procedure Bill will prevent refunds of tax collected prior to the 13th December, 1934, except in any case in which the tax was paid currently and the taxpayer can establish that the tax was not passed on to purchasers of the goods. Sales Tax Assessment Bill No. 1 will expressly exclude second-hand goods from the scope of the tax, and will prevent the principle of the High Court's decision being applied to goods which are not second-hand. Sales Tax Assessment Bill No. 9 will ensure the taxation of leases, other than hirepurchase agreements, of second-hand goods. 
It is not proposed to allow refunds generally, because it was the intention of Parliament that second-hand goods should be subject to sales tax. That was expressly stated by the Government of the day when the first sales tax legislation was introduced. Furthermore. the Supreme Court of New South Wales  (Searl's  case, 9 N.S.W.  W.N.  195) decided on the 16th September, 1932, that the law required the payment of tax upon sales of second-hand goods. In view of that decision, it was the clear duty of the Commissioner of Taxation to collect tax upon such sales until the subsequent judgment of the High Court. 
If refunds were allowed generally, the amount involved would be £250,000. The Government is not in a position to permit this loss of revenue. Furthermore it must adhere to the principle that it is entitled to determine sources of revenue and to . protect those sources of revenue, wherever necessary, against loss by reason of judgments arising from any technical failure of the legislation to effectuate the intention of Parliament. There are very many precedents fo.r this. There are certain constitutional and other legal difficulties in the way of providing a suitable amendment of the law to legalize the future taxation of second-hand goods. Although these do not, perhaps, present an insuperable obstacle, any attempt to overcome them would probably introduce other weaknesses in the structure of the law, and would certainly add to its existing complexities. These circumstances, coupled with complaints of the alleged inequitable incidence of the taxation of such goods, and the partial evacuation of the field of the tax on such goods in October, 1933, have induced the Government to abandon the future taxation of second-hand goods. 
The proposed legislation may be criticized in that, although it prevents refunds of tax paid in the past, it does not seek to provide for collection of tax unpaid prior to the date of the High Court's judgment. This is a matter that has received very full consideration. Any attempt to legislate for the recovery of such unpaid tax would be attended by precisely the same difficulties .as have just been mentioned as being in the way of authorizing the future taxation of second-hand goods. Having regard to this fact, and also to the fact that the amount involved is relatively inconsiderable, being principally confined to the cases of the litigants and persons associated with them, the Government does not propose to authorize the recovery of the unpaid tax. A further provision of the Sales Tax Procedure Bill is designed to limit the general right to refunds in similar classes of cases arising in the future. The court might rule, on. technical grounds, that certain goods are not " manufactured " goods, and are, therefore, outside the scope of the tax, although they have always been regarded by the department as taxable, lt is  proposed  that, in such cases, refunds will be limited to persons who successfully test their opinion that the goods are not " manufactured " goods, by exercising rights of objection and appeal, or by refusing to pay tax and thus becoming defendants in actions for recovery of the tax, or by paying the tax under protest, as provided in the bill, and bringing action for recovery of the tax so paid within six months after payment. The bill actually extends the rights of such persons, but prevents the benefit of anyfavorable judicial decision being applied to other persons. It is considered that limitation of refunds in such a manner is amply justified, and is, in fact, essential, in regard to any form of indirect taxation, because the tax is imposed in the contemplation that all taxpayers will pass it on. The bill does not limit rights to refund in cases whore tax ho? been wrongly calculated, or has been wrongly paid in respect of goods which are exempt. 
The Sales Tax Assessment Bill No. 1 contains a declaratory amendment of the provisions of section 73 of the Sales Tax Assessment Act (No. 1) 1930-1934, which define the power to make regulations. This amendment is designed to obviate any inference that the principle of the High Court's decision in regard to second-hand goods applies to wholesale sales of new goods by persons who are principally retailers. The bill also defines " goods " to exclude second-hand goods, so as to make it clear that the amendment of the regulation-making power is not an attempt to overcome, in the future, the decision of the High Court in regard to second-hand goods. 
The Sales Tax Assessment Bill (No. 1) also provides for an exemption of goods manufactured in Australia and exported by the manufacturer, even if the goods are not sold after export. Another provision is for the omission of sub-section 3 of section 26, in regard to certain rebates on raw materials, so that this particular provision may be placed with other allied provisions in the sales tax regulations. Certain penalty provisions are also to be amended to bring them into line with the lass severe penalties provided for in the Sales Tax Procedure Bill. 
Sales Tax Assessment Bill No. 9 defines " goods " to include second-hand goods. This course is necessary because goods leased become second-hand goods, so that the taxation of short-term leases for a negligible consideration upon a proportionately low sale value would exhaust the power of taxation of such goods, unless leases of second-hand goods are made taxable. Furthermore, the bill seeks to provide for the taxation of any leases of goods on the full wholesale value of the goods where the Commissioner forms the opinion that the goods are leased for a short-term only to relieve the taxpayer from liability under any other Sales Tax Assessment Act in respect of those goods. In the absence of any such provision, registered persons could arrange for short-term leases of new goods to prospective buyers at a nominal consideration and thus, after paying tax upon a proportionately low sale value, escape further tax by selling the goods as second-hand. 
It is intended that leases of secondhand goods under hire-purchase agreements shall, however, be exempt, because such agreements are, in substance, agreements for the sale of goods. The bill will further legalize payment of tax on goods leased under hire-purchase agreements in the month following that in which the agreements were entered into. This is in conformity with the practice followed in the case of ordinary sales of goods. 
It would depend upon the facts associated with the sale, which might indicate that it was purchased in an attempt to avoid the sales tax by nominally leasing it for a short time, when it would be classed as second-hand. In such cases, the tax could be imposed. If it were a bona fide hire-purchase transaction, it would not come under the provisions of the law. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
Will applications of a simple nature, and which were previously heard in the Supreme Court of a State, now have to be dealt with at Canberra? Matters of importance involving an all-Australian decision should perhaps bo brought before the High Court. Will this measure cause unnecessary inconvenience and expense to applicants by compelling them to come to Canberra instead of having their applications heard in the State in which they reside? 
As the High Court sits in all the capital cities and applications may be brought before that court, the expense or inconvenience of applicants will not be increased. . 
When the Patents Office was situated in Victoria, application could be made to the Supreme Court in that State, but now that the office is in Canberra, applicants cannot approach that court. The transferof the 
Patents Office to Canberra has necessitated this amendment of the law. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- I do not propose to offer any opposition to the passage of this bill. Everybody in Australia is aware of the unfortunate circumstances of the farming community. The bill defines a3 farmers those engaged in farming, agricultural, horticultural, pastoral, or grazing operations, and includes dairy-farmers, poultry-farmers, bee-farmers and  viticulturists.  The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  in his second-reading speech, stated that there were 230,000 people engaged in these various callings. The bill is to provide £12,000,000 to be distributed through State governments to those rural producers who are in difficulties. Many of those farmers may not be in such circumstances as would bring them within the scope of this bill, but how far will a mere £12,000,000 go when distributed between the others? The report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry discloses that there are 70,000 people engaged in wheat-growing in Australia, and that they owe £140,000,000. The commission further estimates that it would cost another £10,000,000 to rehabilitate the machinery required to carry on wheat-growing operations. In other words, these 70,000 growers are in debt to the amount of £150,000,000. How far can this bill help them out of their desperate position? During the last election campaign, it was stated by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  that the Government proposed to raise a loan of £20,000,000 for the assistance of wheatf armei'3. That promise was broadcast all over Australia. At the time, Labour senators said that the promise made by the Government was warranted by the unfortunate circumstances of the wheatfarmers. It was said that this money wa3 to be provided for the benefit of wheat-growers exclusively; but now the Government is firmly in the saddle, it asks Parliament to provide, not the £20,000,000 which it promised, but only £12,000,000, and that amount is to be distributed amongst farmers of all descriptions. 
If the 70,000 wheat-growers are subtracted from the total of 230,000 farmers defined in the bill, there will remain 160,000 people whose needs have never previously been under consideration so far as I know. How far the £12,000,000 to be provided under this bill, or even the £20,000,000 promised by the Prime Minister would go in enabling wheatfarmers to get out of their debt of £150,000,000, I do not know. But, on top of the 70,000 wheat-farmers, 160,000 other farmers have been included in the bill, of whose debts we know nothing at all. Although the position of the wheatfarmers was inquired into by a royal commission which revealed the deplorable state of their finances, no inquiry has been conducted to ascertain the financial position of the other growers who come under this bill. If such an inquiry were held, I do not doubt that we would find that the 230,000 farmers are in debt to the amount of about £500,000,000. How far will this £12,000,000 go to lighten the burden of such a staggering indebtedness? Relatively it is but the widow's mite. It would appear that the Government is going about its business in the wrong way, and is endeavouring, in effect, to put a poultice on a wooden leg. A solution of the problems of the rural producers will not be found until we get down to basic causes. The grower cannot find a market for his produce. The demand overseas for many of the foodstuffs we produce is diminishing, and the local market is contracted by the widespread unemployment amongst our own people. Many thousands of people have not the means to purchase even the necessaries of life. Recently a strike took place amongst the sustenance workers in Victoria. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - Order! The honorable senator must connect his remarks with the bill. 
I am saying that this bill is not a permanent remedy in that it will do nothing to find markets for the primary producers, and so enable them to get on their feet. The conditions out of which the strike arose have a direct bearing upon the plight of the farmers who are to be relieved by this legislation. The producer cannot find markets, because so many of our people cannot afford to buy the produce of the land. I ask the Senate to ponder the conditions of hardship revealed in the following appeal : - 
We, the unemployed, in Ballarat and Victoria, have reached the stage where we can no longer exist on the present miserable " sustenance rates," and have now taken determined action to secure for ourselves  and our  wives and children a decent standard of living. 
Repeated promises have been made by many political parties, that we would be given employment, and after four years of promises, we again face hardship this winter. 
The present allowance of 12e. per veek for a man, 8s. for a woman, and only 2s. 6d. for a child is' utterly inadequate for human needs. 
Out of that miserable pittance, the recipients have to find rent, clothing and food. How can a man buy butter and bread or pay rent out of so small an income? A good Australian, willing and able to work, and ready to do his best to help carry on the affairs of this country, is offered by his grateful country 27s. 6d. a week to keep himself, his wife and three children. Yet we wonder why there is a diminished local market for our primary products. We cannot have a prosperous country while men work for starvation wages which prevent them from buying the necessaries of life produced by the farmers. If a man were receiving, not a sustenance dole of 27s. 6d., but a wage of £4 10s., a market for the produce of the farmer would be created. In assisting the primary producers, while at the same time allowing tens of thousands of would-be workers to remain unemployed, the Government is putting the cart before the horse. Until the Government finds work for the people the rural industries cannot be restored to a state of prosperity. The report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry shows that amongst the disabilities of the farmers are the prohibitive interest rates. With wheat selling at ls. Sd. a bushel, it is impossible for the farmer to carry on when he has to meet an interest burden which represents a charge of from 3d. to ls. lOd. a bushel of his production. At the last general election the Labour party offered to the farmers a guaranteed price of 3s. 9d. a bushel for wheat for home consumption. We promised that if we were returned we would see that proper provision was made for the marketing of their products by collective effort, and also that for all wheat sold in thi3 country they would receive a. remunerative price. Unfortunately we were not able to give effect to our pledges because our party was not successful at the polls. 
I have had brought under my notice a very striking example of the need for assistance to be given to farmers. A few years ago a farmer owned a property valued, stocked at £20,000 on which there was a first mortgage of £5,000 at  ii  per cent. This mortgage, which was held by a trustee company, fell due in 1930, in which year, as honorable senators will recall, prices dropped considerably and conditions generally were chaotic. Finding himself able to raise only £2,600 on his property he wrote to the company pointing out that he could meet a little more than 50 per cent, of the mortgage and asking for a renewal of the balance. The reply which he received was as follows : - 
We refer to previous correspondence and to your application for a loan of £2,300 on security of your property . . . and beg to advise having received valuation thereof . . . at £3 10s. per acre . . . The matter has been considered by the 'trustees by whom I have been desired to inform you that subject to your signing on approved mortgage we are willing to lond you the amount for which application- has been made, for the terra of three years, with interest at the rate of S per cent, per annum. 
That illustrates one reason why our wheat-growers cannot prosper, and it is, I suggest, a reason why other primary producers also are in difficulties. It points to the need for intervention by the Government with the  object of reducing interest rates if our primary producers are to get out of their present difficulties. This bill will have application to 230,000 primary producers who, with their wives and families, represent .a not inconsiderable percentage of the population of Australia. Notwithstanding all that may be said to the contrary, I believe it is possible to provide all the people in this country with work at reasonable rates of wages without being required to pay 8 per cent, or for that matter any rate of interest on the money. All the Government requires to do is to utilize the credit of the country. There should be no idle men in Australia. Nothing could be more stupid than to continue an economic system which compels ablebodied men to lounge at street corners in idleness instead of being put to work planting forests, constructing sewers for provincial towns, and carrying out the numberless other public works that could be undertaken to meet the demands of a growing population. Only a few days ago I read of the achievements of a man who had been elected mayor of a city in Austria largely because of the policy which he enunciated for the employment of the people. In a comparatively short time after taking office, and simply by utilizing the public credit, in a sensible way, he was able to put all the people to work on the necessary public undertakings and housing schemes for the convenience of the citizens. There is no reason why a similar policy could not be put into force in Australia. In all the States there is need for new or improved roads and bridges; there are tourist resorts to be beautified, and a large number of other works are required for the development of this country, all of which could he put in hand by merely utilizing the public credit. President Roosevelt has just been authorized to continue with hia policy of providing work for the people of the United States of America. for years millions of pounds worth of gold has been pouring into that country and because of the dislocation of international trade relations it has been shut into a vault where it is practically worthless. 
If we are to get out of this slough of despond into which the people of Australia, in common with the people of all countries, have been plunged, we must look facts in  the  face and not be afraid to experiment in financial policies. Only a few days ago a visitor to some of the Melbourne slums was astounded at the evidence there of misery and degradation. 
We have been told that Australia cannot sell its wheat because Germany, Prance and Italy, which formerly were good customers for our primary products, are now, by force of economic circumstances, endeavouring to provide for their own requirements. Great Britain is similarly, and for the same reason, giving its attention to a policy of economic nationalism. During the war the people in the Mother Country  Were  on the brink of starvation, and would have suffered great privations but for the action of the then Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr. Hughes)  who bought ships wherever they were for sale, and transported Australian wheat for the use of people of Great Britain and the allied armies. 
Because European countries are now endeavouring to meet the local demand from within their own borders, the overseas market for Australia's primary products has been very much restricted in recent years, a.nd it seems to me that the time is coming when we shall be obliged to give our attention to production for use and not for profit. We have in Australia, the soil, the climate and the manpower to produce all that we require for ourselves, and to feed millions of people overseas. 
I shall support the second reading of the bill. My one regret is that it does not go a little further and guarantee to the wheat-grower a better home market for his product. But the wheatfarmers are not the only people in this country who are in need of assistance. Every man willing to work should have the right to apply his energy to the building up of the nation. 
 I intend to support this bill for 'the provision of £12,000,000 for the reduction of farmers' debts, because during the last few years the majority of our farmers have not been able to pay their working expenses. The Government might well have gone much further and brought forward legislation for the reduction of both debt and .interest  burdens which are pressing heavily upon primary producers, particularly in the newer districts. When the farmers' debts were incurred prices overseas for primary products were much higher than they are to-day. At that time farmers were getting from 4s. to 5s. a bushel for their wheat. Now with wheat at, from 2s. to 3s. a bushel and with wool at the present depressed prices it is impossible for them to meet their liabilities. At the last elections, candidates of the United Australia party in the eastern States; the Nationalist party in Western Australia, and the Country party, promised that, if returned, they would support a comprehensive scheme for rural rehabilitation and debt relief. The royal Commission on the Wheat Industry estimated the debts of the wheat-growers of Australia at £150,000,000. The woolgrowers, according to the Wool Committee's Report, owe another £140,000,000,  while  other farmers and producers in the agricultural, pastoral and allied industries probably owe, inclusive of their liabilities to State governments and government instrumentalities, another £200,000,000. Within the last few days I have heard two ex-Treasurers of the Commonwealth,  Dr. Earle  Page and  Mr. J.  H. Scullin, at different times, give it as their considered estimate that the whole of the debts owing by the agricultural, pastoral and kindred industries, approximate £500,000,000. The amount for which this measure provides is, therefore, very small in comparison with the debt. The plan submitted to us under this bill will give only very partial relief to those lucky farmers who are fortunate enough to come under its operation. Many creditors will not voluntarily cancel the debts due to them for the estimated few shillings in the £1 if they think that by holding out they will receive 10s. in the £1 or the full amount of the farmers' obligations to them. 
This measure covers only one phase, but, of course, an important phase, of rural rehabilitation, namely, debt adjustment. What the United Australia party and Country party promised at the last general election was a complete scheme of rural rehabilitation. Of the 260,000 farmers estimated to be carrying on in Australia - and that figure was given to me by the census officials - only 30,000 can be assisted under this bill, and assisted to the extent of only £400 each. That, we are told, is the average amount of assistance that will be forthcoming. This means that only one farmer in eight can be helped. There will be a tremendous measure of disappointment among the remaining seven-eighths who cannot be helped at all, and their disappointment, after having been led to expect so much, will certainly be intensified and widespread. 
They set out the total number of farmers in Australia, of whom a very large proportion require help. A tremendous proportion of those who were promised help by the two parties I have named at the general election are deliberately excluded from any assistance whatever under the provisions of this measure. I refer to those who are indebted to State governments and government instrumentalities. 
I have made my protests wherever I have had an opportunity to do so. The Wheat Commission's report shows that the debts of 45,000 wheat-growers amount to over £150,000,000, an average of over £3,000 each, so that the £12,000,000 to be found in three years under our policy of rural rehabilitation will not be of great service. 
No, but that it should provide the £20,000,000 which was promised the farmers from one end of Australia to the other by the United Australia party and Country party. If the whole £12,000,000 went to the wheat-growers - and that is not intended - it would not average £300 for each of them. If only one half went to the wheat-growers it would mean less than £150 each and even then that amount under this scheme would he spread over a period of three years. Under this bill I fear that many farmers will not escape with less debts than the creditors think the whole of their assets are worth and that even after the debt adjustment has been made they will be left with very little equity in their properties unless the prices of wheat and wool improve in the markets of the world. 
It may be accepted that by bringing forward this measure the Government has abandoned the very comprehensive scheme recommended by the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry for the financial reconstruction of that industry. The Wheat Commission's scheme is set out in part8 of its second report and is adaptable to all of the rural industries. The commission recommended that the Commonwealth should found a fund from which payments would be made, on the recommendation of the court, to be established for the following purposes: - 
For the working expenses of any approved scheme for carrying the farmer on. 
Loans for developing and improving the farmer's property or to utilize it in more profitable forms of production. 
Loans for the purchase and replacement offarmer's plant and machinery, and 
This is very important - for the suspension and, over a period, for the compulsory reduction of all debts including secured debts. 
Secured debts do not come directly under this legislation. A scheme of reduction based on such lines would have done more to rehabilitate the rural industries than will be obtained by this bill. I appreciate this legislation, but think the Government could have gone much further in the direction in which it is aiming by accepting the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry. Such a policy would more adequately conform to the preelection promises made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  the Leader of the Country party  (Dr. Earle Page),  and the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  with regard to rural rehabilitation. I emphasize the point that this measure is welcome, but more direct and valuable assistance could have been given for the money provided by adopting the Wheat Commission's very comprehensive scheme and recommendations. The present legislation in no way meets the pre-election promises of the honorable gentlemen I have mentioned. The farmers were promised complete rehabilitation, not merely an inadequate measure of partial debt relief such as we are now considering. The present bill in no way covers the promise of the Government in regard to the amount to be made available, nor in regard to the direction in which the farmers and others concerned were to be assisted. I complain further that these debt relief proposals contain restrictions which were never mentioned during the election campaign. In some States they exclude a large proportion of the farmers and a proportion most sorely in need of relief from the Commonwealth, so far as their secured debts are concerned. I have in mind those settlers whose debts are due very largely to governments or their instrumentalities, such as the Agricultural Bank of Western Australia and similar institutions throughout the Commonwealth. Such farmers include soldier settlers and those in the group settlements. 
This legislation provides for £12,000,000 to be spent over three years. The scheme put before the electors by the United Australia party and the Country party in their election propaganda throughout Australia provided for what was called a £20,000,000 rural rehabilitation policy. It was advertised as such. I have before me a copy of the  Primary Producer,  issued in Western Australia, dated the 6th September last. This newspaper circulates very widely among the farmers of the State, and the issue to which I refer would have gone into every farmer's home on the eve of the election. I may add in passing that the advertisement which appeared in the  Primary Producer,  and which I am about to quote, appeared in various other newspapers published throughout Australia, and I have no doubt that it was similarly displayed. In this case a huge advertisement extending over several columns reads: "On 
September 15th cash this cheque." Then following in cheque form the words: - 
The facts speak for themselves. As a Senate candidate, my name was associated with that advertisement, and I am doing my best to see that the Government redeems its promise. Naturally, I am glad that the rural industries are to receive £12,000,000 from federal sources. That is a 60 per cent. fulfilment of the promise made, even though the payment will be spread over three years. On this occasion, the Government has done better than a previous government did in 1931, when it failed to keep its promise that 3s. a bushel f.o.b. would be paid to the wheat-farmers under the provisions of the " Wheat Advances Act." The default on that occasion meant a loss of nearly £7,000,000 to the wheat-growers of this country. They were not given one farthing of the substantial amount guaranteed to them by an act of this Parliament. The promise of £20,000,000 was not merely confined to a number of advertisements, for a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  during the last week of the election campaign, was described by the  Bulletin  in the following terms: - 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  during the last week of the campaign made the following unabashed bid for farming support: "We intend to borrow large sums - £10,000,000, £15,000,000, possibly more - to relieve the primary industries of the burden of debt which they arc carrying. When we see how much money we can obtain, we intend to consult the industries themselves as to the best way of using it. 
It is true that the Commonwealth Government did consult with the Government of Western Australia, and that the latter made definite proposals as to the manner in which it would like the money to be expended. To those proposals, however, the Commonwealth Government said, " No. We will provide money only for debt relief, and even then we shall exclude all debts to State governments ". 
Although a representative of Western Australia, the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  did not visit his own State during the election campaign. Nevertheless, the right honorable gentleman took an active part in the campaign in other States. Moreover, he was assisted by a good publicity officer, who from time to time sent lengthy statements regarding the policy of the Commonwealth Government to Western Australia, where they were published in the newspapers. On the 31st August, a fortnight before the election the  West Australian  contained the following: - 
The right honorable gentleman will not deny that he said - 
What suited one State would not suit another, and it was proposed to deal with each separately, through State governments. Each 
State government would be asked to put forward its own proposition, based on what was considered most suitable to its particular circumstances, the Commonwealth finding the money. 
No, but since then the States have been consulted. I read the whole statement, and then I proceeded to point out that later the State Government of Western Australia was asked to put forward its own proposals. 
The Federal Government rejected those proposals, although  Senator Pearce  said that the several States would be treated differently, according to their varying circumstances. The Government of Western Australia suggested that the money to be expended in that State should be used, not merely for debt adjustment, but also for replacing worn-out machinery and plant, providing horses for farms where tractor power was used, adapting wheat lands of low productivity to mixed farming and providing fencing and water supplies, and the compounding and writing down of private and government debts. 
I welcome the assistance offered in this measure, but I submit that it is not a fulfilment of the promise made by the Minister during the election campaign. 
That, however, was the intention. The Minister may make whatever subtle explanation he likes, but I do not think that the farmers of Western Australia will accept it. On the 22nd February last the Premier of Western Australia sent the following letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  :  - 
With reference to your Government's proposals for the rehabilitation of the primary industries,I desire to inform you that, while the proposed monetary grant is acceptable, its practical benefit to this State at the present juncture will.be largely nullified by the limited purpose for which it may be utilized. 
At the conference of Ministers held at Canberra on December 3 and 4, the Minister for Lands, representing my Government, stressed the point that the grant couldbe used to much greater advantage in this State in providing horse-power, fencing material, water supplies and for the replacement of wornout machinery. 
These are regarded as the more immediate urgencies of rural rehabilitation, whereas the Commonwealth proposals simply embrace a partial conditioning of debts, while quite overlooking the enormously influential part that Government instrumentalities in this State have played in the development of its primary industries. My Government is of opinion that the preliminary grant of £225,000 which it is proposed to allocate to this State for the compounding of debts would be of little immediate benefit, whereas if this sum was made available for the commencement of a comprehensive scheme of rehabilitation, it would be of practical utility in enabling many farmers to continue in productive occupation of their holdings. Waning industry would be reinvigorated and the provision of fencing and water supplies would enable many growers who are dependent solely on wheat to adapt their holdings to mixed farming. One of our State's major problems is its large number of partially improved farms. The period 1920-30 was one of exceptional activity in land settlement in this State. The advent of the depression found a very considerable number of settlers in the process of farm building with moneys borrowed from the Agricultural Bank. With the stoppage of bank advances through lack of capital, development has been more or less at a standstill, and it has now become a question of providing further capital for the establishment of these farms, or of facing the loss of the moneys already advanced to them. My Government, while appreciating the financial assistance which the Commonwealth is willing to render, is definitely of opinion that this State should be permitted to utilize the moneys in the way it considers will best serve the interests of the primary industries of this State, enabling it to take into consideration the more urgent requirements of an adequate scheme of rehabilitation. Such a scheme would embrace: - 
Provision of horses on unequipped and tractor-powered farms. 
Re-adaptation of wheat lands of low productivity to mixed farming, necessitating the provision of fencing and water supplies. 
Compounding and writing down of private and government debts. 
With regard to the latter, it must be emphasized that no scheme of debt reduction would meet the situation in this State which excluded Crown debts. Approximately 50 per cent, of the aggregate amount owing by primary producers is due to the Agricultural Bank, which, in its amending legislation, passed during the last session of parliament, has been given the power - in agreement with other creditors - to write off, postpone or compound debts owing by its borrowers. The Agricultural Bank has already given substantial relief to a considerable number of its clients. 
The Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  telegraphed the following reply - 
The proposals contained in your letter of February 22 concerning the Commonwealth assistance for rural debt adjustment have been carefully considered by the Commonwealth Government. The fundamental object of the Commonwealth proposal was and is to provide financial assistance for farmers' debt relief and it is clearly impossible for the Commonwealth Government to agree to the fund being used for purposes other than that for which the proposals were originally framed. The assistance which you desire to render to the farmers other than by way of a composition of debts cannot, therefore, be provided out of the Commonwealth fund. In view of this, it is regretted that the Commonwealth finds itself unable to agree to your proposal in this regard. Concerning your further suggestion that Crown debts should be entitled to participate in the Commonwealth fund, your attention is invited to a recommendation of the December conference that no payment shall be made in respect of debts due to a State, and to the terms Qf the Commonwealth proposals which were communicated to you on February 1 and 3. The question of debts due to State authorities has received most careful consideration and the Government regrets that it finds itself unable to agree to any variation of its modified proposals on this matter 
On 11th March,  Mr. Collier  sent the following telegram to the Acting Prime Minister : - 
If your telegram of the 7th. represents your unalterable decision, my Government must agree. I desire, however, to stress the necessity for consideration of the special needs of our primary industries. The individual relief derivable from a partial conditioning of debts is relatively unimportant compared with the major benefits accruing to all sections of the community if the grant is used in a general scheme of rehabilitation. Maintenance of production by replenishment of plant and power and adaptation of holdings to diversified farming is of paramount importance to the adjustment of old debts. 

 Dr. Earle Page again telegraphed a refusal to alter his decision. The request of the State Government that debts  due to it should be included in this legislation was reiterated, but again it was rejected by  Dr. Earle  Page who, in his policy speech, on the 14th August had specifically stated that the proposed farmers' debt adjustment scheme would provide for the writing down of debts due to the Crown.  Dr. Earle  Page, in that speech, said - 
It is useless approaching any creditors with a composition or arrangement involving scaling down the debt without being able to offer an immediate consideration. The chief class of immediate consideration will, of course,  be  cash 
Cash was promised; not a reduced amount spread over three years. He continued -  and this is an essential when dealing with unsecured creditors. Others available would include power to offer and effect a writing down of Crown dues; power to offer secured creditors quarterly interest payments at a rate agreed upon over specific periods; power to offer guarantees on behalf of the Crown. 
He specifically promised that power to offer and effect a writing down of Crown debts would be provided for. 
But under the scheme, Commonwealth money was to be provided for that purpose. 
Yes, and they live up to them more fully than does the Commonwealth.  Dr. Earle  Page was not speaking on State policy but was outlining a Commonwealth scheme to be supported by his party. 
Yes. As a representative of Western Australia I repeated the promises made by the Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  and the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  and I am now complaining because specific promises are not to be honoured. I do not know why the rural rehabilitation plan has been altered and restricted to the disadvantage of the farmers, and particularly those in a State such as Western Australia, where settlement is comparatively recent, and where the Government has assisted one half of the farmers. The form of rural rehabilitation which I expected to be adopted, and which I promised the electors, was that set out in the policy speech of  Dr. Earle  Page. The scheme, in its present amended form, is more beneficial to mortgagees, including large 'financial institutions, than it is likely to be to the farmers, who were satisfied with the proposal which the Government placed before the electors in the first instance. If the request to assist farmers indebted to the Agricultural Bank, who constitute more than half the farmers in the State, were agreed to the grant to Western Australia would need to be doubled. To-day I received the following telegram from  Mr. Troy,  the Minister for Lands in Western Australia: - 
Agricultural Bank principal debts, thirteen rail lion six hundred thousand pounds; number of settlers, twelve thousand eight hundred and eighty-three. More than fifty per cent, of total farmers' debt represents advances for improvements, machinery, stock super cropping. 
Not in Western Australia alone.' The telegram which I have just read states that more than half the farmers in that State are indebted to the Agricultural Bank, and that the Government is the only creditor of a large proportion of them. Many are group settlers in a comparatively poor position. When these 50,000 farmers were urged to participate in the £20,000,000 farms scheme neither the advertisements nor the details given in speeches delivered by the leaders of both parties suggested that those who became indebted to the Agricultural Bank would not' obtain assistance from the Commonwealth. When the measure is in committee I shall move an amendment to provide that the original policy announced by  Dr. Earle  Page, which included the writing down of Crown debts, shall be adhered to. If that were done, more than half of the farmers in Western Australia who are definitely excluded from Commonwealth assistance would be included in the scheme and would remain under it. 
That government, like all. other Western Australian governments, has always put up a good fight for its people against successive Federal Governments. Even at this stage the Government would be wise to accept the scheme of debt adjustment recommended by the royal commission. If that  were  done Western Australia's share of the £12,000,000 could be used to purchase fencing material, stock, new agricultural machinery, and to provide water supplies. 
I fail to understand the basis upon which the money is to be allocated between the various States. Comparing the number of settlers in the various States the allocation appears to be out of proportion. The proposed allotment is: New South Wales, £3,450,000; Victoria, £2,500,000 ; Queensland, £1,150,000; South Australia, £1,300,000; Western Australia, £1,300,000 ; and Tasmania, £300,000. In Western Australia, where development is comparatively recent, the settlers need more assistance than do those in the eastern States, where there are many old-established farms. Yet, as is usual in Commonwealth affairs, most of the money is going to he expended for the benefit of those on oldestablished farms in the richer eastern States. From the information I have been able to gather since the bill waa introduced, it seems that the £5,950,000 which is being allocated to New South Wales and Victoria should be divided between Western Australia and South Australia, the needs of which are much greater than those of the other two States. In Western Australia, there is a large number of partially-developed wheat, dairy and mixed farms and pastoral properties, and under this measure assistance is to be given to persons engaged in agricultural, pastoral, dairying and fruit-growing industries. I find that during the last two years Western Australia and South Australia have each actually cropped a larger area than Victoria. Yet, although we have a larger area of wheat under crop in Western Australia, we are to get only abou* half the assistance that is to be granted  to Victoria under this distribution. The areas under wheat in each of the States during the last three seasons were - 
On the basis of these figures, South Australia and Western Australia should each receive at least the equal of Victoria, namely, £2,500,000. Knowing that this legislation covers all branches of rural industry, I approached the Census branch this morning in an endeavour to obtain similar figures in relation to other rural industries, but, unfortunately, those figures are not yet available. However, wheat acreage is one basis of comparison, and I am at a loss to understand why such an unfairly large allocation is made to Victoria and New South Wales. I should like to know from the Minister upon what basis this allocation was made. 
I have not received a proof of the Minister's remarks. The exclusion from this measure of debts due to governments is unjust, particularly to Western Australia. The group settlers and clients of the Agricultural Bank form a large proportion of the farming community, and their debts are owed almost entirely to the Crown. In. regard to the application of compulsion in respect of debts owing to secured creditors,  the  following telegram was sent by the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia to  Dr. Earle  Page, when this legislation was introduced: - 
Our executive considers plans utilization £12,000,000 as published gives little hope to producers whose  debts  largely due to creditors secured by land and stock and not likely agree voluntary" adjustment debts. To be fully effective aid to producers should bo supported by legislation compelling where necessary writing down debts all classes including secured debtors. 
In giving consideration  to the  plans for rehabilitation, it appears that provision is made for farmers to obtain considerable relief from debts due to unsecured creditors. This class  of  creditor may be glad to accept a cash payment in consideration for writing off a considerable portion of the debt, and thus far the scheme seems  to  be quite  good. 
These are the views expressed by the members of the Primary Producers Association, and I agree with them. The members of the association are of the opinion that as the Government is giving assistance to the industry to the amount, of £12,000,000, the secured creditors will be placed in a very much more favorable position,  and because of this  should be asked to take their share of the burden as well. In the majority of cases, debts of the secured creditors are built up by overdue interest to  an  amount considerably in excess  of  the original advance, and it is only natural to assume that with some of the unsecured debts written off, the secured creditor, in the belief that his position is even more secure, will not be inclined voluntarily to write off any of the amount owing. In Western Australia, and, possibly, in other States as well, many of the farmers are wholly carried on by the financial institutions, which arrange for supplies of seasonal requirements as well as sustenance, and in such cases there are few, if any, unsecured creditors. A debtor of this class does not appear to have any hope of relief under the present proposal, because there is no incentive for any of the amount, to be written off. 
It is my plan. It is not suggested that money should be provided to pay an amount to secured creditors as a  quid pro quo  for writing off any portion of the debt. It is believed that if assistance were not forthcoming from the Government - in other words, the taxpayer  - to meet the  position, the security of the secured creditors would be depreciated  and, in  many instances, would almost totally disappear, because farmers would not be  able to carry on. In view of the protection given in this direction, legislation is recommended by the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry to compel secured creditors to write off some of the debts. It is not unreasonable to ask them, as well as the unsecured creditors, the farmers, and the taxpayers, to make some little sacrifice in the interests of the industry. 
Oh, no! The Primary Producers Association and I do not believe in repudiation, but there are special circumstances and were it not for the fact that the Government is planning for the assistance of the industry, secured creditors would lose considerably more than they would by the scheme suggested in the ultimate recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry. 
No, but I believe that every one should bear a fair share of the loss due to the unfortunate condition in which the agricultural industries are placed. I do not believe in the banks and holders of mortgages escaping their obligations in respect of interest rates. 
That is not so. I stand upon the recommendation of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry in regard to the ultimate reduction of all debts, including secured debts. 
It provided that the States should set up a tribunal to deal with the claims of both secured and unsecured creditors. Again the " buck " was to be passed on to the States. In regard to the £2,000,000 to be held in reserve, I hope that the Government will recognize the fact that agriculture in Western Australia and South Australia is less fully developed than in the eastern States. It is for this reason less able to bear the huge burden of debt which it is carrying to-day, and which government instrumentalities in those States are sharing. I am in complete sympathy with the Government in its effort to lighten the load of debt which our farmers are carrying and my chief regret is that this legislation does not go still further in aiding them. 
I listened with interest to the remarks of  Senator Johnston,  who has demonstrated that, in the relations between the United Australia party and the United Country party, there is a rift in the lute. Politically, we on this side are pleased that the difference exists, and we hope that it will have repercussions which will result at some not far distant date in the return to office of a government which will act fairly towards the farmers of this country.  Senator Johnston  has testified that the present Government is not being fair to the farmers. Citing chapter and verse he has charged Ministers with having dishonoured their election pledges. It may be the habit of the United Australia party to make promises only to dishonour them. 
This is a very important measure, involving certain principles which should have been thoroughly discussed in the House of Representatives, but unfortunately the bill was bludgeoned through that chamber with the assistance of the gag and many honorable members anxious to speak to it were not given an opportunity to do so. 
The honorable senator must not refer to debates which have taken place in the House of Representatives during the current session. 
In connexion with this scheme the Commonwealth will incur an additional interest liability of £400,000 a year. This legislation practically cuts across the principles of federation. The Commonwealth Government raises money by taxation in the various States and then, because primary producers are in difficulties, it brings forward this measure, which provides £12,000,000 to he disbursed by the States over a number of years under certain conditions. The bill does not, as  Senator E.  B. Johnston has pointed out, allow States governments to determine how the money shall be spent; it provides that it shall be utilized for the benefit of the farmers' creditors - to enable farmers in difficulties to arrange for a composition of their debts. The Commonwealth finds the money, but denies to the States the right to say in what way it shall be expended. This is an aspect of the measure which I hope the Leader of the Government in the Senate will discuss when he is replying to the second-reading debate. 
The bill shows clearly that the Government and its supporters, who, we understand, believe in private  interprise,  have been forced, by economic circumstances, to accept a form of hybrid socialism. Individually, Ministers and their followers are opposed to socialism as an economic system ; yet for some years this Government and previous governments have been handing out doles and subsidies, making provision for the employment of workless people on relief works, and manipulating exchange. Yet, when we on this side urge that the Government should go a little further, and instead of giving to private enterprise the advantages of socialism, it should extend the principle- to embrace all the people, Ministers and their supporters suggest that we are suffering from a form of political madness. 
The Douglas credit system, which advocates a national dividend for all, has been discussed in this chamber on many occasions, and has been laughed to scorn by ministerialists. Supporters of the Douglas credit system urge that there should be such a distribution of the purchasing power per medium of dividends for all, that consumption would equate production. Although this principle is opposed by honorable senators opposite, who are most vitriolic in their denunciation pf anything that emanates from that monetary school, they are prepared, from time to time, under economic pressure, ,to endorse schemes to hand out doles, subsidies, and all manner of assistance in forms which run counter to the principles of the political school to which they belong. 
The bill is not designed to give money to farmers to purchase machinery or seed or to pay for the labour required to work their farms. It is a proposal to s&amp;t aside the sum of £12,000,000 to be disbursed over a period of four years, and utilized for the assistance of a limited number of farmers - about 30,000. The manner in which the money is to be utilized by the States is set out in the measure. It is to be used in such a way as to make possible the composition of farmers' debts with storekeepers and "other unsecured creditors. The farmer himself will not see one penny piece of this £12,000,000. 
I have examined closely the illustrations cited by the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page),  when moving the second reading of this bill in the House of Representatives, and I was struck by the fact that, in the first case cited, the farmer's debts may be reduced as the result of the composition suggested, but he would lose his tractor; so in respect of the working of his property, his position would be worse after than it was before the composition. I fail to see how, by resorting to this accountancy legerdemain, the Government is going to achieve any substantial measure of rural rehabilitation. 
One phase of the measure which I approve is the provision for interest-free advances to the States. This principle, I suppose, dates from the time when Jesus  drove  the money-changers from the temple, and is in conformity with Christian principles that discourage usury. But honorable senators should note that the Commonwealth will be called upon to pay interest on the loan, and that the yearly amount will depend on the state of the loan market. If market conditions are favorable, we may get the money at 4 per cent. On the other hand, if the time is not opportune, the loan may not be fully subscribed and the balance will be taken up by the banks, in which case little new money will be available. The bulk of the loan will be merely bank credit, for which the Government will be required to pay interest. 
The State governments, in distributing the money made available to them, will set up tribunals whose function will be to inquire into the financial position of farmers applying for relief, and to recommend the amounts to be paid for the benefit of the unsecured creditors. The position of many unsecured creditors is probably just as bad as that of the  farmers  themselves. I have no doubt that they are in debt to various banks, so this money, portion of which may be raised by bank loans, will be handed to the unsecured creditors, who, in their turn, will .pay off their debts to the banks. If this be so, in what way will the payment back to tha banks ' of money issued on bank credit to unsecured creditors rehabilitate rural industry in Australia? The whole arrangement is specious humbugging of the people, and is not likely to render real service to the farmers who are in need of help. 
Let us see what the farmers themselves think of this scheme. The  Queensland Producer,  a journal which circulates widely among all sections of primary producers in Queensland, expressed this opinion in its editorial columns on the 27th March- 
Let' us now subject the much advertised rural rehabilitation scheme to a critical analysis, and sec if the excessive optimism of  Dr. Page  is likely to justify his claim to the effect that the £12,000,000 grant, which be it noted is to be spread over a term of  years, is really a " substantial contribution to the solution of the difficulties of the farmer ". Having regard to the fact that the Wheat Commission's report disclosed that the estimated debts of about 250,000 wheat-growers were stated to amount to the staggering total of £151,000,000, and that  Mr. C.  L. A. Abbott. M.H.R., recently submitted an estimate showing that the debts of wool-growers were nearly as much or something in the region of £140,000,000, and the Federal Government admits that " no information was available from which to make an estimate of .the debts of all farmers ", it certainly appears that the claim of  Dr. Page  rests upon a very flimsy foundation. As a matter of fact, it must bo patent from a most perfunctory examination of the rural relief measures outlined, that they hardly touch the fringe of the problem, and even from the standpoint of the wheat-growers themselves, the effect in staving off absolute ruin will be practically negligible. 
The writer referred to wheat-growers because certain articles dealing with them appear in the same issue of the paper. He continued - 
Of course, the distribution of the sums allocated will not be on a per capita basis, but, as already stated, are " designed to place 30,000 farmers on their feet ". From this it is reasonable to infer that the other 220,000 wheat-growers will be excluded from any participation in the grant. If this is the intention of the federal authorities, it is certain that the discrimination will provoke widespread dissatisfaction and much indignation among those growers who are to be debarred from benefiting from the money allocated to the States. 
If we are going to establish the principle that the State must have Commonwealth money made available to them free of interest to enable farmers to make a composition with their creditors - it will not be debt-free money to the Commonwealth, but will mean an addition of £400,000 a year to the interest bill of the Commonwealth - why should not other sections of the people who are in difficulties receive similar assistance? I was speaking recently to a Brisbane business man, who informed me that he had been in business in Queensland for the whole of his life. and had struggled against adversity for many years, but, latterly, due to the depression, his position had 'become so bad that he was afraid he would soon be obliged to file a petition in bankruptcy. That man, and many thousands of others whose financial position is equally insecure, will be expected to subscribe, through taxation, towards the sum to be raised by the Commonwealth Government to get our farmers out of debt. We are going to get the farmers out of debt by getting the community into debt. If, as a result of this measure of assistance, people in other industries prefer a similar request to the Government, we shall be getting one another out of debt by the medium of governmental action. The debts of those engaged in private enterprise will, in the end, become a national debt, and so will never be paid off. If this Government sees fit to give effect to such a principle, I shall offer no objection; I may be able, sooner or later, to take advantage of it myself and to demand a composition of my debts through government action. I should be pleased if I could have them removed from my shoulders to those of the community. In 1920 the Commonwealth public" debt amounted to £352,000,000, and in 1932 it had increased to £396,000,000. In 1920 the debts of the States totalled £425,000,000, whereas in 1933 they had increased to £807,000,000. If the Government feels inclined to pile debt on debt, and interest on interest, I shall not have much to say. But some day if the Government finds itself overloaded with debt, it may be disposed to repudiate, as  Senator Johnston  suggested when he said that he would give a reduced capita] account to these farmers. When the debt becomes too big shall we have a national composition? We had something of the sort a few years ago when we secured a reduction in the rate of interest on our loans. I read from time to time in the Queensland newspapers that private companies are requesting the courts to agree to a reduction of their capital. By means of inflation Germany practically wiped out its internal debt. There was another painful series of compositions in the United States of America in 1929, when, fol- lowing the Wall-street crash, millionaires woke up one morning to find that their fortunes had gone; banks closed their doors and many people were ruined. These several courses will be open to the Government when the debt which it is piling up becomes too big. I refer to  these matters merely to show the way in which this country, is going by removing debts from private enterprise and placing them on the shoulders of the people generally. That will be the effect of this bill. In effect, it is an endeavour to use the money system in order to save private enterprise. I should like to see our monetary system used so that every one in the country and not merely a section of the people would benefit. 
As a result of what has happened elsewhere, and particularly in Australia, it is necessary that we should come to the help of our farmers. We on this side are at all times ready and willing to do our best for them; but in doing so it is our duty to point out the fallacies of legislation of this kind. The national debt is growing while production is slackening. A crisis must come. After all, our national debt is merely a paper debt. The national debt does not represent wealth to Australia, although it represents wealth to the many individuals to whom it is due. When it keeps on growing it is necessary that we should be careful. 
There can be no hope of rural rehabilitation unless, as our leader has pointed out, there is an increase in the purchasing power of the people. I sought to-day information relative to the sum represented by the decrease in wages that has taken place in Australia during the last few years. I understand that it is, approximately, £20,000,000. The figures, however, are not authoritative, because those who have been seeking the information for me have not been able to obtain the exact details. In Great Britain, since 1920, the purchasing power of the people has been reduced by no less than £11,000,000 a week by reason of the wages fall. A diminution in the wage earnings of our people must react on the farmers ; no  mere  juggling of the figures in the farmers' balance-sheets will do away with that plain fact. Where the wages of the working people are reduced, the farmers must inevitably be affected. 
We are told that the liabilities of some 30,000 farmers will be reduced to the extent of about £400 each under this scheme, and it will probably be said that, as a result of the compositions to be effected, their interest burden will be small. But will it be any smaller than it is to-day? If we refer to the example cited by the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  when this measure was before another place, we must see that if, as a means of reducing his debt, a farmer is required to return his tractor, which he is purchasing on terms, to the merchant, no real help is given him. Sooner or later he must get another tractor, and when he does he must pay interest on the instalments. It has been said by a member of the Country party that as much as 18 per cent. has been charged by way of interest on fertilizers obtained on terms by the farmers. 
There is another class of farmers on marginal land or dry areas whose position is so desperate, and whose prospects are so absolutely hopeless, that it wouldbe useless to help them. 
Those men are the victims of economic circumstances. They have worked long and hard to make a pittance for themselves, their wives and families, but they are up against it. The prices they receive for their product are so low that they cannot even meet their interest charges, and they are in danger of being dispossessed of their lands. 
I desire now to refer to the proposed revolving fund. We are told that the money that is to be given to the States must be repaid by the farmers. I understand that the New South Wales Government proposes to charge the farmers 2-J per cent, on the amounts advanced to them, notwithstanding that it will obtain the money interest-free from the Commonwealth. We are told that the repayments by the farmers to the State Governments will be placed to the credit of a revolving fund, but I question whether it will ever revolve, because many of the farmers throughout Australia are in such a serious financial position that they will not be able to repay the money. In that event, what will happen ? Will the various State Governments have first call on the money, in preference to other creditors ? I should like the Minister to answer these questions when replying. 
The world position to-day is such that, in my opinion, we are deceiving ourselves if we imagine that the money advanced to the farmers will ever be repaid. Mention has been made during this debate of the trend towards economic nationalism. The growth of that movement in Germany, Argentina, France Italy and other countries during recent years has been remarkable, and I predict that it will be more so in the future.  Dr. Addison,  one of the leaders of the Labour movement in England, said recently that 2,500,000 acres of land in the Old Country could be drained and used to produce foodstuffs for the people. Other land, he said, was not put to its most profitable use, because the farmers were without sufficient capital. He added that the climate and soil of England were the best in the world for producing those foodstuffs which we in Australia produce. In support of a scheme to rehabilitate the agricultural industries of England, a recent White Paper pointed out that there are 1,500,000 agricultural workers in the Old Country - more than there are in Australia. It would appear, therefore, that there is little hope of obtaining an increased outlet for Australian produce in the European market. In any attempt to rehabilitate our rural industries we must realize the forces against us, and the obstacles to be overcome. We on this side are doing our duty as an Opposition in pointing out the deficiencies of the measure before the Senate. With world conditions as they are, we tell the Government that there can be no rural rehabilitation without an alteration of the existing monetary system. Whilst we all hope that this bill will grant a measure of relief to the debt-burdened farmers of Australia, we on this side are of the opinion that better measures could have been brought forward had the Government dealt basically with the problem. One of the basic factors which' must not be overlooked is that the people have a wrong conception of wealth and debts. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.16 to 8 p.m. 

The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I remind the honorable senator that the bill relates to debt adjustment. 
In the earlier portion of his speech  Senator Brown  referred to the proposals embodied in this bill as a rural rehabilitation plan, but towards the close of his remarks he said that it was a debt adjustment scheme. Some have been  under the illusion that the Government proposed to provide a general rural rehabilitation plan, but when the bill was introduced in another place, it was found that it provided for an adjustment of farmers' debts under certain specified conditions.  Senator Pearce,  when moving the second reading of the bill, said that he wished to impress upon, the Senate that the measure deals with debt adjustment and not with rural rehabilitation generally. The intention of -the Government is to assist the farmers to settle a portion of their debts, so that if there should be any improvement in the prices of the commodities they are producing, they will derive the benefit. The Minister also stated that throughout the depression farmers have been receiving Governmental assistance and have been protected by debt adjustment schemes, moratoriums and various other measures. This proposal is  to  benefit not only wheat-growers, but also many other kinds of primary producers, including even bee-keepers. In every scheme of adjustment or assistance, a fair basis and balance between the creditor and debtor must be preserved. As was stated by the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry, the nation must assist the wheat-growers to recover their position. We are all aware that during the past four years the nation has assisted primary producers to the amount of £12,000,000 through various relief measures, and that, although such assistance has been rendered by the imposition of the sales tax on flour, and by contributions from revenue and loan funds, the finances of the nation have not been jeopardized. Taxation has also been reduced and surpluses have been shown. While a large amount has been expended in this and other directions there has been a general improvement in trade, and the unemployment figures are much better than they were three years ago. By assisting the farming community the Government has enabled many producers who otherwise would have gone out of production to remain on their holdings; while the amount provided has not been sufficient to give them all the assistance they needed, it has enabled them to reduce their losses. The returns from wheat and wool have not been as good as we should like, but the assistance rendered by the Government, while not compensating the producers has enabled many partially to recover their position. When governments have from time to time asked the farmers to produce more wheat, they have responded to the call. This scheme will not assist them to reduce their working costs. 
I am not suggesting that. The £12,000,000 to be provided under this scheme is insufficient, having regard to the total debt structure of the primary producers. A bolder scheme should have been undertaken to provide for expenditure on a more comprehensive programme. To assist the farmers to meet their obligations, £50,000,000 would be required. 
The sum of £12,000,000 has already been distributed and it is now proposed to raise another £12,000,000. In order to make this scheme of real benefit to the farming industry £50,000,000 should be expended. 
I am not suggesting that. 
Where did we get the money already expended? This scheme will not solve the problem, but will assist to relieve the tension upon many producers, who will be encouraged to carry on their operations. On a composition of 5s. in the £1, the expenditure of £10,000,000 to £12,000,000 will relieve the debt situation to the amount of £40,000,000 to £50,000,000. Only those who have prospects of carrying on their operations with a reasonable chance of success will benefit under this proposal, and the assistance so given will enable many to pursue their operations with determination in the hope of ultimate success. Comprehensive rehabilitation schemes are in operation in the United States of America and Canada, but I am afraid that much of the money to be expended will be wasted. The Commonwealth Government is going carefully in that direction, and if the £.1!2,000,000 does materially assist the farming community, the Government will not be afraid, at a later date, to give further consideration to the real rehabilitation of primary production. We must take into consideration the fact that owing to low prices many farmers have got deeper into debt during good seasons and that even if prices recover they may still have no chance of carrying on because of poor seasonal conditions. I do not desire to paint a gloomy picture, but after we have expended this money and given farmers a reasonable chance of carrying on, bad seasons, even though accompanied by good prices, may leave them still in difficulties. The main objective of any form of assistance should be to enable producers to continue production at a profit. Because of their indebtedness, and the fact that they arc carrying heavy mortgages and overdrafts, many farmers will fail unless there is a profit to assist them out of their difficulties. I regret that such assistance is not to be found in this bill. It is a matter of saving, not individual farmers, but rather an industry, the success- of which is of vital importance to the nation. I am referring particularly to the wheat industry. In a voluminous report the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry sets out definitely the position of the man on the land. Other primary producers are in a most precarious position. In South Australia £1,000,000 has been provided under the Farmers' Relief Act during the last three years, and the Premier of that State said recently that the actual loss to the State would be well over £700,000. That money was expended in a bold attempt to save principally the men on marginal lands. The Farmers' Assistance Board of South Australia last year had a shortage of £250,000, despite the fact that it took control of the finances of not less than 3,500 farmers and controlled the distribution of the bounty granted by the Commonwealth. Unless there is a guarantee that the farmers will not incur any more debts the expenditure of this £12,000,000 will be useless and we must be careful that the money is so utilized that they will not again be forced to produce at a loss and appeal for rescue a second time. That is a danger wre may have to face if we are not careful to see that this money is properly utilized. The nation  cannot  afford .to  allow  the farmers, after being helped out of their difficulties, to get into debt again. We have gone to great lengths to bring about an increase in the production of manufactured goods, and have raised the prices of some goods out of all reason. Therefore there is nothing wrong in providing a home-consumption price for wheat to secure to the farmer a higher return for his product. Unless the farmer is placed in a sound position, the expenditure of this money will be wasted. That is why I say that £12,000,000 is insufficient to place necessitous farmers upon their feet. Again, unless this problem is tackled in an efficient manner farmers will be driven off their land. Conditions generally in Australia have improved; yet, despite the money expended on relief, farmers have not been able to receive the costs of production and losses have increased. According to the report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry the average debit balances of farmers with joint stock banks increased in New South Wales from £ 1,488 in 1928 to £1,917 in 1933; in Victoria, the average increase was £395; in South Australia the average increase of the debt structure of those farmers coming within the provisions of the debt adjustment legislation was £444, whilst in Western Australia, the average increase amounted to the huge sum of £591. In spite of all the money that has been expended on their relief farmers have not been able to recover their costs, and unless the administration of this £12,000,000 enables them to do that, we shall be left in the same position as previously existed. 
I do not know what the banks would attempt. 
It is the nation's responsibility to provide it. Where will it obtain the £12,000,000? The money advanced to the farmers on other occasions was not fictitious. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  said economic nationalism has been the cause of the farmer's difficulties. I agree with the honorable senator that economic nationalism does play a big part in our troubles. The honorable senator also mentioned the fact that the United Kingdom is growing more food stuffs, and that France,which previously, was a big purchaser of Australian wheat, is now self-contained in respect of that commodity. Although we complain of these developments they are the outcome of our own policy of restricting the entry of the goods of those countries into the Commonwealth. Until such time as farming in Australia is placed on a profitable basis unemployment cannot be entirely removed. This is amply demonstrated by the effect on employment of the high prices realized for wool of the 1933-34 clip. As a result of those high prices the motor body industry in South Australia has been in full operation, and the same beneficial effect has been felt in many other secondary industries throughout the Commonwealth. But if the farmers are forced to produce at a loss unemployment must be the inevitable result. Other countries which sell their products in the markets of the world in competition with Australia are attempting rural rehabilitation schemes. Argentina has adopted a scheme to control wheat marketing. The United States of America is spending huge amounts of money on assistance to all industries, and in Canada, farmers are receiving a bonus of 20 cents a bushel on their wheat. The price is pegged at 80 cents, which, with the addition of the bounty, is equivalent in Australia to 4s. 2d. a bushel at ports. 
I do, and have always advocated it. Is it the intention of the Government to advise the States to deal with both secured and unsecured debts? I take it that at the present time it is intended that only unsecured debts shall be adjusted. The settlement of all unsecured debts will certainly improve the securities of the secured creditors, and I want to know if the Government considers this tobe a fair proposition. 
It increases the security of the secured creditors. 
What is an intangible credit? I also should like to know from the Minister what farmers are qualified to apply to come under the provisions of this act. At the present time the State governments are handling the affairs of the wheat-growers, and are aware of their position. But what of the position of other farmers who do not come under State debt adjustment acts? How long will it take to ascertain the number of growers who will be entitled to relief? The applicant, I take it, is to be a farmer who has no credit upon which to operate, and has no means of financing to extricate him from his difficulties. As this measure is to provide assistance to those who have a reasonable chance of carrying on, there does not seem to be any hope at all for those who are irretrievably involved. If unsecured debts only are to be dealt with what will he the position of the man who cannot pay his mortgage? We are told that we cannot interfere with securities. What authority is to judge whether a farmer has reasonable prospects of being able to carry on? There are some men who, in good seasons will produce considerably more than other farmers who are no further involved. 
I was wondering whether the Commonwealth would attempt to give the States a direction in that regard. 
We are constantly hearing from honorable senators opposite of the success of the five-year plan in Russia, a country which has abolished capitalism; but Russia cannotdo without money. In spite of the fact that we have retained the capitalistic system, we are paying for private loans only 4½ to5 per cent., and have reduced the interest on public loans to about 4 per cent. Russia, which has been described by someas the modern Utopia, is obligedto borrow money internally at higher rates of interest.  Senator Brown  has said that money raised by loans is fictitious. 
-Comparison of the rates of interest payable on loans in Russia and Australia will show that the position in this country isvery much better than in theSoviet Union. The Soviet Union  Year-Book  for 1930 states that the first internal loan in 1924 cost the Soviet Government8per cent;the second internal loan for 1926, 8 per cent.; the third internal loan for 1927,8 per cent. ; the fourth and fifth internal loans for 1928,8 per cent. and 11 per cent. and the reconstruction loan for the same year, 10 per cent., while the internal loan of the Peoples Commissariat of Transport cost 9 per cent. The  Year-Book  also states - 
While in other countries the financing of industry is being done through capital issues of private and joint stock companies, in the Soviet Union this function is being performed by State loans. Consequently the issue of State loans by the Soviet Union should not be considered as an exceptional financial measure, but as the normal method of financing the national economy of the union. 
The figures which I have quoted show that despite all that has been said by our friends opposite in favour of the Russian system of finance, the Government of thai country has to pay considerably more for money which it requires than we pay in Australia to joint stock companies and banks. 
I commend the Government for tackling this grave problem in a business-like way. The proposals contained in this bill will be of substantial benefit to farmers. 
.- I congratulate theGovernment upon having brought in this measure which, as  Senator Badman  has pointed out, will make it possible for those engaged in primary industries to obtain some measure of relief from their burden of debt. It is also an earnest of the Government's intention to fulfil the election pledge given by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  and his supporters, that if returned a measure would be brought down, having for its object the rehabilitation of primary industries. 
I do not intend to discuss the measure at length, but I desire to obtain from the Leader ofthe Senate  (Senator Pearce)  some information with respect to certain of its provisions. I direct attention in the first place to paragraph e of clause 7 which states that no payment under any composition or scheme of arrangement shall be made in respect of any debt due to a State or governmental authority. I should like to know if the term " governmental authority " includes the State Agricultural Bank in Queensland. That institution has made considerable advances from time to time to thefarmers in Queensland. Very often private banks have not been willing to provide finance for certain farmers, who in such circumstances have turned to the State Agricultural Bank for assistance. Although the authorities controlling that bank have endeavoured to conduct it on what are regarded as sound lines, in many cases it has been necessary, in order to prevent farmers from being forced off their holdings, to make available to them credit beyond what private institutions might regard as the safety margin. Summing up the position in Queensland, I may say that, whilst most of the " good " accounts are handled by private banks, many of the " bad " accounts - bad in the sense that the security might not be good - are with the State Agricultural Bank. If the State Agricultural Bank of Queensland comes within the definition of a governmental authority, that bank will not be able to recover any portion of the amounts owing to it. I hope that the Minister will give an undertaking to have this position investigated with a view to enabling the State Agricultural Bank to recover some of its advances. 
I am glad that the Government has seen fit to bring down this measure, because of the assistance which it will render to country storekeepers. Everybody knows that country storekeepers for many years have been at their wits end because of the difficulty of recovering debts due by farmers, owing to low prices or seasonal conditions. Under this measure storekepers and others who have given extended credit to farmers, enabling them to carry on, will be able to recover some portion of the money owing to them. 
I also commend the Government for including in the bill provision whereby shire councils and other local-governing bodies are brought within its provisions. Many shire councils in my own State - and I have no doubt that local-governing bodies in other States have acted similarly - have not enforced payment of rate assessments during the depression, and because of the resultant falling off in revenue have not been able to carry out necessary road construe- . tion, bridge building, and other works, which, in normal times, give employment to a large number of persons in country districts. This bill will enable them to recover some portion of the arrears owing, and put in hand works which have been postponed during the depression. 
I agree with other honorable senators that, until the prices for primary products in the world's markets rise appreciably above their present levels, we cannot hope for a return of real prosperity in our rural industries. But the bill contains proposals that will be of real assistance to our farmers, and it is a clear indication that they have hot been forgotten by the Government. I hope that it is only the commencement of a policy to be put in hand for the aid of rural industries, and that, in association with the States, the Commonwealth Parliament will continue its help to our primary producers until eventually they are on their feet again. 
Having in mind the conditions obtaining throughout the Commonwealth, I intend to support the bill within limits. It is of such importance that I feel sure that every honorable senator will lend it at least qualified support. During the last three or four years  we  have heard a good deal about the plight of our primary producers. Although there is general recognition of his worth as a contributor to the sum total of the nation's wealth, I have noticed a tendency in some quarters to pit him against the man engaged in secondary industries, and the general effect of that tendency has been, I think, detrimental to both, because our primary and secondary industries are inter-dependent. The man who exploits the riches which the earth provides supplies the raw material for the manufactfacturer and, I suggest, is entitled to the same measure of protection as is given to the latter. For example, if I read the figures aright, or correctly estimate their import, the present protection given to the man engaged in secondary industries, including duties, primage and exchange, varies from 60 per cent, to 65  peT  cent. If that amount of protection were halved, and half the total were given to the man engaged in primary industries, I venture to predict that his position would be very much better than it is. The total amount that has been expended  by the Treasury upon the man engaged in agriculture is very small compared with that which the manufacturer has obtained from the pockets of the people themselves. 
This bill aims at an adjustment of the farmers debt6. Speaking on general lines, I think the Government is right in its premise that a lightening of the burden of debt is the first step towards the rehabilitation of the farmer. The debts of the wheat-farmer we are told aggregate something like £150,000,000, but the contribution that we are proposing to make is something less than one-tenth of that sum. The money, however, is going to the quarter where it will do the most good. For instance; if I read aright the report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry, onethird of those engaged in wheat-farming are able to arrange their own finance; one-third are so situated that they would be unable, in the future, to carry on upon economic lines despite any reasonable assistance that we might be able to give them, while the remaining one-third have every prospect of continuing successfully if some of their difficulties are removed. We gather that this legislation is directed towards the last-named section. Consequently, the concession contemplated is really not so inconsiderable as might at first appear. There is in the bill a provision that no portion of the money to be used shall be directed towards the payment of any debt to the Commonwealth or to any State or any governmental authority. That has already been pointed out by previous speakers. This course is necessary, if I understand the situation correctly, on account of the losses that have been sustained by more than one of the States in connexion with their land policy, and those losses would more than absorb the whole of the amount that we are proposing to make available under this bill. 
I am concerned, among other matters, with the effect that this bill is going to have on soldier settlers, upon whom the Commonwealth has in past years spent a very considerable amount of money. I pointed out in a previous speech the rather peculiar position of these settlers whose indebtedness is almost entirely composed of what they owe to State govern mental authorities. I recently discussed the matter in Perth with the Assistant Minister  (Mr. Thorby)  while he wa3 on his way to Europe, and was assured by him that it was not intended to debar this class of settler from the benefits of this legislation. I want to emphasize the peculiarities attaching to this class of settlement. These men went on the land when land values were at their highest and the products of the land were averaging the highest price. They were the victims of the generosity of the repatriation scheme itself, because on the holdings which they took up advances were made up to 100 per cent. As the result of the depression, the soldier settler in far too many instances had no equity at all left in his property. I hope the Minister when replying to the debate this evening will indicate what is intended in respect of this particular class of settler. I hope, also, that die right honorable gentlemen will give us some information upon the position of the private trading banks and the amount of benefit that will accrue to them under this scheme. We are all aware - and I think that the Leader of the Senate emphasized the point to-night - of the tremendous amount of good that has been done by these institutions; but it seems necessary to remove any impression that the major portion of the moneys we are now asked to vote is going to be diverted to them to the detriment of a large body of equally worthy creditors. Not very long since an eminent banking authority deprecated any intervention by the Government between the banks and their clients. 
In this bill, we are dealing with the agricultural industry as a whole. The new law is to be administered by the State governments, but certain lines of action are indicated from which no divergence is to be permitted. That, in a measure, is to he regretted, and I trust that even now it is not too late for the Government to reconsider its decision. I believe that a great dissimilarity of conditions exists in the various States. 
Whether a more effective scheme than we have projected for using the money can be devised is a matter of conjecture. The State of Western Australia, of which T am a representative, owes its development during the last two decades almost entirely to the operations of the wheatfarmer. But any one who has moved about the country, and has witnessed the fight that is being waged to keep the farms going in the face of very low prices, must realize that the dearth of ready money, shrinkage of creditand the burden of past debts, have been very much felt. The industry in Western Australia is a young one, so that up till now there has been a general lack of opportunity to set aside any money for a rainy day or even to provide for the normal replacements of stock or machinery and plant. Consequently, I have no doubt that on examination of the farmers' accounts in Western Australia it will be found that their position is aggravated in comparison with that of wheat-growers in the other States. 
I am aware, of course, that this proposal is part of a long-range policy for the rehabilitation of the whole of the agricultural industry. But, speaking of the general effect of this policy, it is hard to be convinced that the partial forgiveness of past debts is going to furnish the wheat-grower with cash, credit, or useful tools of trade, and raise farming from a dormant to a paying proposition. The position of Western Australia and its real need have been pointed out by the Premier of that State  (Mr. Collier)  in a letter to the Prime Minister, which was read this afternoon by  Senator Johnston.  That letter enables us to appreciate the situation that confronts the State Government. The aid which the State itself can render is limited, and unless a fortuitous rise in wheat is reported there is really no hope in front of the farmer there at the present time. 
I do not wish to resume my seat before remarking on the concern we should all feel, and, in some manner, express, for the one-third of the total number of wheat-farmers for whom it has been said it is impossible to provide. Surely there is some residue that can be saved. In Western Australia there are immense cultivable areas beyond railway termini which need only money for fencing and water conservation to enable the mixed farming, which has been referred to in  Mr. Collier's  letter, to be carried on under conditions that must ensure some useful and valuable return. In this connexion there is room for a real plan, and I hope that the close attention of both Commonwealth and State governments will be given to that end. 
I have only to say in conclusion that, whilst I am strongly in favour of this financial help being given to our main industries, because present circumstances justify it, I trust the time is not far distant when the practice of granting subsidies to industries, both primary and secondary, will .be discontinued, and taxpayers themselves may thereby have an opportunity to gain some genuine relief. The days of prosperity in the Commonwealth will be brought appreciably nearer when industry is carried on by private enterprise, self reliant and self contained. I have already said that this bill is part of a government long-range plan to  rehabili-tate  the farmer, to restore to him his privileges and, indeed, his liberties. For that reason I am going to support it and I shall do so in the hope that in committee it may be possible to make some provision for the "special needs and special circumstances that may be evident in the different States. 
I desire to congratulate the Government on the introduction of this bill and at the same time to intimate that I do not propose to discuss it at any length. It is a class of measure which will commend itself to every section. I should not have risen to discuss it but for the apparent conversion to unorthodox finance of Senators Johnston and Badman. I thought it was left to a certain section of the working class movement in a State not very far removed from Canberra to suggest that we should write down capital. But to-night we have heard it proposed by a member of the Country party that there should be a writing down of capital, while yet another member of the same party proposed to borrow more money from the writtendown capital. This Government, which -is to approach the market for a loan of £12,000,000, is told by  Senator Johnston  to write down the assets and  Senator Badman  urges that on the written-down assets we should borrow £50,000,000. I should like to know if the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  agrees with the proposal that we should get £50,000,000 for the farmers on the security of the assets that would be written down by  Senator Johnston,  his colleague from Western Australia. 
I assume that before the Government introduced this scheme it had considered all the recommendations of the royal commission, and that, having written down the assets of the farmers to the point recommended by the commissioners, it decided that £12,000,000 was the most that it could advise investors to subscribe.  Senator Johnston  urges that we should write down the assets still further, and  Senator Badman  suggests that we should borrow £38,000,000 more on those written-down assets. These things are advocated by honorable senators who said that the Scullin Government consisted of repudiation ists and inflationists, and should be driven from the treasurybench. Are we now to understand that the Scullin Government was not guilty of the charges levelled against it, and. was wrongly driven from office? The most that that Government proposed to do was to borrow money in order to pay the farmers 4s. a bushel for their wheat. 
Yes.  Senator Badman  does not suggest the payment of a mere 4s. a. bushel to the farmer for his wheat; he advocates that we should borrow £50,000,000 from one section of the people to which the farmer now owes money, and with it pay back to that same section the present debts of the farmers. Then we are told that it is difficult to say where we shall get the' money, because wheat cannot be produced profitably at present prices. 
It did not pay them because it did not have the money to do so. I congratulate the Government on what I consider to be a forward step under the existing system. All parties in the Senate will agree that the maximum relief possible should be given to the primary producers of this country who are in need. I support this legislation, particularly as I shall not have any part in its administration. In conclusion, I express the hope that my two friends, Senators Johnston and Badman, who will remain in the Senate while I am temporarily out of it, will always remember that Jack Lang, in the heyday of his fame, never advocated so unorthodox a proposal as that which has been placed before the Senate by them to-night. 
I support the bill, because it is an attempt to do something for the farmers of this country who are suffering from a depression which had its origin overseas. In the House of Representatives the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  admitted recently that although the several State Governments had done a lot for the farmers, State legislation could not get to the root of their trouble. He went on to say that this legislation was introduced in anticipation of an early improvement of world prices for wheat. So far as I can see, there is little hope of an early improvement of world prices. 
That may be; but I remind the Minister that the price of wool rose recently only to fall again. The sum of £12,000,000 is totally inadequate to rehabilitate our rural industries. It is like offering a cup of water to a camel after a journey across a desert. The supporters of the scheme admit that only about 30,000 of the total of approximately 250,000 farmers, will participate in the distribution of this £12,000,000. I agree with  Senator Badman  that we should borrow £50,000,000, although I do not favour his proposals for the distribution of that amount. I would get to the root of the trouble by using the money to wipe out the causes of unemployment. Those European countries which in the past have been our best customers have, during recent years, adopted a policy of economic nationalism, with the result that the market for Australian wheat, meat, and other primary products has diminished. If this process continues, every nation will soon be doing its own washing. I am not greatly afraid of that state of affairs, for I agree with  Mr. Amery,  who said recently in England, that the world seems to be getting along fairly well though it has no import or export trade with the other planets. 1 Australia can grow almost anything, and if its people were cut off from the rest of the world, they would not starve. If economic nationalism continues to grow, and the various countries of the world refuse to accept goods from one another, we shall have to follow the example of Great Britain, and offer token payments, by which we shall indicate our intention to pay our overseas interest debt -when we are able to do so. I include the farmers of this country among its workers. The only difference between a farmer and a labourer who wields a pick and shovel is that the farmer puts more money into his project than is necessary for the carpenter to buy his tools or the blacksmith his forge. That difference causes many farmers to think that they are capitalists. If, however, economic nationalism continues to develop, the time will come when the farmer will be driven off his holding, and he will be forced into the ranks of the unemployed. The problem of our rural industries is too great to be solved by a grant of £12,000,000. The Royal Commission on the -Wheat Industry has told us in its report that the debts of the wheat-farmers of Australia amount to £150,000,000. That serious state of affairs exists to-day, notwithstanding that for many years the wheat-farmers enjoyed good seasons and good prices. As recently as 1928, it was not uncommon to find each of three or even four members of one family of farmers with his own motor car. At that time, I was drawing a fairly substantial salary, but it was not sufficient to enable me to possess a motor car. Other rural producers, including the growers of wool and meat, have also had their good times; but now that the tide has turned against them, other persons in the community, who at no time have been well off, are asked to make a donation to them. Moreover, we are told that mo3t of the money will go, not to the farmers themselves, but to the banks and other financial institutions which have lent money to them. As the distribution of this £12,000,000 will be spread over three years, I cannot see that it will accomplish a great deal, unless the price of wheat increases considerably during that period. It may be that the distribution of this money will put a little oxygen into the farmers' lungs, but I cannot see what permanent good it will do. It will have as little effect as would the throwing of a bottle of rose-water on to a big fire. The Congress of the United States of America this week undertook to raise £1,000,000,000 for the purpose of providing work for the people of that country. I do not suggest that, with its smaller population Australia requires that amount. 
-Yes, and I suppose we could offer a token payment for the interest. On a population basis, a comparable sum for Australia would be about £50,000,000. Some of the best financial and political brains of the world are to be found in the United States of America, and if the scheme to raise £1,000,000,000 is considered by them to be good enough for that country, a proposal to raise £50,000,000 should find favour in Australia. Efforts have been made from. time to time by the Government of the United States of America to assist the farmers, but it has now come to the conclusion that it must get the people to work before there will be any possibility of achieving success. It therefore proposes to undertake huge developmental works on which millions of persons will be employed for three or four years. If Australia were to adopt a similar policy and expend £50,000,000 no fewer than 250,000 persons would be provided with employment and the demand for primary produce would increase immediately. The  PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Mclachlan)  mentioned the beneficial effects which an increase in the price of wool had upon the Australian community. We are therefore safe in assuming that a similarly beneficial effect would follow an increased demand for any of the farmers' produce. The farmers, like workers on the basic wage, are suffering as a result of international finance and the general contraction of credit. When we were first faced with economic and financial depression Great Britain was lending to Australia about £30,000,000 annually, and when further financial assistance was not forthcoming tens of thousands of Australian workers were thrown out of employment. Up to 1928  America was lending to undeveloped countries money at the rate of £150,000,000 a year. If the depression which has had such a disastrous effect upon the civilized1 world has not done anything else it has taught us that we and other peoples have interests in common and are an economic whole. The purchasing power of the people has been seriously decreased, and some unfortunately have not been receiving any money at all. Figures quoted from time to time show that while old-age pensioners are collecting 17s. 6d. a week, many single men in Australia are earning only about 10s. a week. Married couples in employment are receiving only a few shillings more than single men, although there is a slight variation due to the cost of living in each State. With the pronounced reduction of the prices of primary commodities the value of farmers' assets has been reduced substantially, and when they seek assistance from a financial institution they are naturally asked what security they have to offer. Having already borrowed extensively on their assets they are in the same position as a man who has never possessed land and who has to depend on a pick or a shovel as a means of earning a livlihood. The object of this measure is to provide funds to prevent about 30,000 farmers, who have a reasonable chance of making a success of their operations, from being driven off their holdings and increasing the number of the unemployed. With a contraction of loan expenditure a great many farmers, particularly those con ducting operations in a small way, and having to depend upon their own labour, have been affected. If half of the 250,000 farmers in Australia do not need financial assistance the amount proposed to be raised under this bill will help only one-fourth of those in need. If £50,000,000 were made available on the basis of the American plan the proportion of primary produce consumed in Australia would increase tremendously and we should then find that we were taking the first step along the road to prosperity. It would be interesting to know who is to receive this money. 
-No,it will be seized by those who farm the farmer. 
The honorable senator said that he hoped that the storekeepers would get some. 
Of course, and particularly those who are conducting small businesses. This is not much assistance to the farmers because most of the money will be handed over to trustee companies and other financial institutions. Although it is supposed to be made available in the form of a loan very little of it will ever be repaid. The Government should adopt a comprehensive plan of public works, and by placing large numbers of men in employment increase the demand for primary produce and at the same time cause a larger amount of money to be placed in circulation. If one State should be much more prosperous than another those seeking employment immediately cross the border, as they have a right to do, and compete for whatever work is offering. Therefore one State cannot be better off than the others for any length of time. In Queensland which has expended a much larger amount of loan money on public works than any other State the position is slightly better. The only way to afford real assistance to the farmers is to raise  a loan sufficiently large to enable extensive public works to be undertaken and by that means increase the demand for primary products. I should like the Government to consider whether it is not practicable to introduce a scheme under which the primary producers and not the financial institutions will benefit. The position of many producers is desperate. I know of a man in the northern rivers district of New South Wales who, before the crash, was worth £40,000, and who to-day is on the dole. This bill will at least save many farmers from fore-* closure. Unless we in Australia are determined to free ourselves from the financial shackles of the old world, and control our own financial policy, more years of depression must inevitably follow, and we shall not be able to keep the farmers on the land. Eventually they and the under-paid and wages-taxed workers will come to appreciate their true position, and the capitalistic system of society, as we now understand it, will be terminated. I regret that the Government has not made a more substantial contribution towards a solution of the difficulties confronting not only the farmers, but also the workers and the small shopkeepers, for whose welfare  Senator Foll  has been so solicitous. I, also, have a most friendly feeling for them, because I recognize that they are a. struggling section of the community. Friends of mine who have kept shops have found that is was not all beer and skittles. When the depression came many men who had invested their money in small businesses found themselves in difficulties as the result of giving credit to farmers and other classes of workers. If a larger and, perhaps, more imaginative proposal were adopted - one commencing with the workers and extending to the shopkeepers and farmers- it would create more happiness in the community, if only for a time. The Government of the United States of America has tried several schemes, which have resulted in failure, but that Government is now undertaking a huge scheme, involving the raising of £1,000,000,000, to assist industry generally. But Australia is behind the times, and is only beginning where others have knocked off, in endeavouring to place  the national  economy on a satisfactory basis by a miserable grant to the farmers. I do  not  ask the Government to undertake an entirely socialistic change in regard  to  this matter; but undoubtedly it is now doing things which would never have been countenanced by the tory or liberal governments of past years. Public opinion has responded to the demand  of  the times, and we are now doing things which in earlier years would have been regarded as distinctly socialistic. There is no doubt that the old-time tories would have been aghast at any proposal to give to the farmers a dole in the form of temporary relief. They would have said, " What has become of the great principle of self-reliance, and standing up to one's burdens? You are making of the nation a race of paupers. It is not only the workers, the men satisfied with a life of toil, and supposed to have no executive ability, who receive State assistance in times of depression. You are making the farmer the recipient of charitable relief." That is exactly the position. The smaller the amount of relief, the more the farmer will be placed in the position of a dole-taker. We should follow the lead of the United States of America by raising sufficient maney to keep all our unemployed in work, so that our waterlogged ship of state may be made seaworthy. 
One work that could well be undertaken is the standardization of the east-west railway line. I was astonished to find, on a recent journey to Western Australia, that it was necessary to change trains three times in the State of South Australia. When I arrived at Perth I was asked by a newspaper interviewer my opinion of the state of affairs in South Australia. I replied that 25 years earlier I had crossed Canada from St. John's to Vancouver, and in six days changed trains only once, and that was at Montreal. The standardization of the east-west railway, at a cost of £2,000,000, is a great national work which should be undertaken at this period. 
Yes ; but if the Commonwealth raised £50,000,000, it would give employment to about 250,0000 workers for one year at £4 a week. One of the election promises on which  Mr. Moore,  Premier of Queensland, won an election in that State, was that he intended to spend £2,000,000 to place 10,000 men in employment for one year at £200 a year, a sum well over the present basic wage. But for reasons of jealousy, and because it fears that it would lose a little revenue if the east-west line were standardized, the South Australian Government is averse to the undertaking of this work. It is difficult to understand the attitude of the South Australian Government in view of the fact that the money would be spent in that State, and would give employment to large numbers of its unemployed residents. The £12,000,000 proposed to be provided under this bill will, in the main, go to the banks and financial institutions. That is not a proper way of easing the farmers' burdens. It would be far better to increase the consuming power of the community by undertaking large employment schemes. Some years ago it was estimated that the nationalization of the Australian railways would cost £57,000,000, and it was said that this work, together with railway extension, would well repay Australia. "When a man has a fortnight's holiday, or is temporarily out of work, if he is farseeing and is in possession of a home, he will put in concrete paths around the house, do some painting, and generally place his home in better order, spending the whole of his fortnight in improving his property. The same thing applies to the nation; now when there is so much unemployment is the time to put Australia's house in order. If by raising £50,000,000, which, on a population basis, is in proportion to the sum of £1,000,000,000 being expended by the United States of America, we can place our workers in full-time employment for years, it will have that very desirable effect which we experienced when the price of wool was increased, and will be something worth while. The Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page),  in introducing this bill in the House of 
Representatives, said that what is necessary is to give farmers an opportunity to extricate themselves from their difficulties in anticipation of an early improvement in prices. But the bulk of the farmer's market is in Australia itself. We consume 80 per cent, of his products, and if the lot of the worker and the trader were improved, the farmer would reap the advantage of an increased circulation of money. He would be able to increase his production, in order to get the full benefit of any improvement in world prices. I do not anticipate any such improvement in the near future; but it can be expected in the years to come, if only as a result of another world war. Although I support the bill, I regard it as merely tinkering with the problem, and I should like to see a more far-sighted policy adopted. The Government should, like  President  Roosevelt in the United States of America, get to grips with the problem and introduce proposals to put the people to work. If this were done there would be no need to worry about the position of the farmer. 

 Senator PAYNE  (Tasmania [9.45]. - The measure must appeal to every honorable senator because it marks the beginning of a new era in legislative proposals. Its purpose is to give financial aid of a special character to a certain section of the community. This is the first time that we have been called upon to discuss a bill to relieve a large section of the .community from obligations which it has incurred from time to time. I disagree entirely from the statements made by  Senator J.  V. MacDonald and his colleagues that the root cause of the difficulties confronting our primary producers is the existing social and financial system. Nor do I agree that we should break the shackles that bind us to the Mother Country. 
 Who said that? I referred to the financial shackles of Europe and America. 
Many of those who took part in this debate have suggested that because of the policy of economic nationalism now being adopted in other countries it is impossible for Australian primary products to be marketed overseas except at a loss and that is one of the causes of all our troubles. 
But I put it to honorable senators opposite that economic nationalism is really the principle of self preservation applied to nations, and it is, moreover, the policy which they have been advocating for many years in connexion with our secondary industries. Great Britain for over a century has been dependent for its prosperity upon the export of its manufactures, but in more recent times the industrial development of other countries has been more marked, and the imposition of tariff barriers has created so many difficulties for the Mother Country that it has at last been compelled in self protection to give its attention to the development of its agricultural industries to provide foodstuffs. The only solution for the troubles of our primary industries is an increase ' of population, ensuring the local consumption of a larger proportion of the output. 
I am indifferent as to the method to be employed. "We are in possession of the finest country in the world and can support a very much larger population which would provide a good home market for our primary products. Do honorable senators realize that for many years we have been producing largely in excess of our consumptive capacity and that, owing to increasing costs of production, we have been unable to export at a profit? The great majority of our primary-exporting industries have been bolstered up by bounties or subsidies, with the result that our products have been sold in the overseas market at prices much lower than they realize in Australia. 
The proposals in this bill, although welcome, are merely a palliative, and because the policy of economic nationalism is finding more and more support in other countries we shall eventually be compelled to look for noi increase of population as the only way out of our present difficulties. 
I am glad to know that the Government has included in the bill a provision for direct assistance to a very deserving section of the community. But there are in the measure one or two points concerning which I should like more de finite information. In giving this special assistance to our farmers we must not do injury to another section which might be equally deserving. I come from a State where the conditions of primary producers are somewhat different from those obtaining in other parts of Australia. For instance, we have no direct knowledge of many of the difficulties encountered by wheat-growers and other land workers in Western Australia, but we have troubles which are peculiar to a community engaged in mixed farming. 
I feel sure that honorable senators who have preceded me will agree that in every State there are farmers and farmers - that while a great majority of the men on the land are efficient producers there are, as there must be in other avocations, men who ought never to have been on the land except as employees. This bill provides that the authority to be set up in the various States shall give relief only to those who have a reasonable prospect of making a success of their occupation. What I wish to impress upon the Senate is the fact that this debt adjustment will apply to the traders in the community who have for many years strained their resources to the utmost to enable farmers to carry on. The position of many traders is quite as bad as that of the farmers themselves. What then would be the position of a storekeeper who has incurred enormous liabilities in order to give farmers extended credit, if the authority suggested to him that he should accept 10s. or 12s. in the £ in full settlement of the money owing to him ? He might be quite willing to accept the compromise if the State authority which made the suggestion could also indicate to him how he could meet his engagements. Failing this he might quite reasonably ask if the Government intended next to introduce a Storekeepers' Debt Adjustment Bill. Surely it is clear to honorable senators that if there is a compulsory adjustment of farmers' debts, the effect of which may be to accentuate the difficulties of the trading community, there may be a suggestion later that the Government should introduce legislation to relieve traders of some portion of their debts. This phase of the problem should. 
I think, receive serious consideration. I intend to support the second reading of the bill, and I suggest that when it is in committee those provisions in it relating to compulsory composition of farmers' debts should receive earnest consideration, in order to prevent hardship from being inflicted on other sections of the community. 
[9.41] . -  in reply  - Some curious theories have been propounded during this discussion with regard to debts. It would appear, from the views expressed by some honorable senators opposite, that the lender of money is to be regarded as " Public Enemy No. 1 ". Let me put the case in this way. I am a wage earner, but I see an opportunity to get away from what our friends opposite term wage slavery and become an employer. I have in mind a piece of land, and believe that if I can obtain capital I can make a good living on it. Having secured the land I look around for the capital, and appeal to " Public Enemy No. 1 " for an advance to purchase stock and plant, and to cultivate the land. " Public Enemy No. 1 " agrees to make me an advance. At that stage I regard him as a heaven-sent benefactor. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, because he provides the money which enables me to make a start. Then in order to carry on until I harvest my crop I appeal to " Public Enemy No. 2 " - the local storekeeper - who agrees to give me credit for twelve months. At that stage I consider that " Public Enemy No. 2 " also is a blessing from Heaven, because without his aid I should be unable to carry on until my crop was harvested. But time passes and prices fall, and because difficulties arise from this cause, I am asked to regard as my enemies the people who have given me assistance! Another curious fallacy emerged from the debate to-day. Because I am in difficulties, a beneficent Government comes along and says to me "You owe £1,000 to Public Enemy No. 1 and Public Enemy No. 2. In order that you may have an opportunity to put in another crop, we will provide a sum of £100 or £200. With this you may arrange a composition with your creditors, and so reduce the debt owing to these '.public enemies' and incidentally reduce your interest charge." Being a farmer I also look upon the Government, at that stage, as a benefactor. But curiously enough, in this debate I am told that money made available by the Government is not available to me at all, but to " Public Enemy No. 1" and "Public Enemy No. 2". As a farmer I find it difficult to realize this because I reason that if, as the result of this action by the Government, my deb: is reduced by £400 or £500, I have, in some way, received a gift of that amount. I do not see why I should regard as my enemy or as a public enemy either of those parties; the party that lent me money to obtain plant and stock, the party that gave me credit for stores to enable me to get my crop in, and to take it off, or the Government that enabled me to secure a compromise with my creditors by which the amount of my debts was reduced. I suggest to some of our honorable friends opposite that they should review their judgment of these matters and look at them in the cold light of reason. 
Coming to other aspects of the debate, I was very interested in some of the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  who seems to think that the cure for the ills of our farmers to-day is that all the unemployed should be put to work. Some of his supporters appear to share the view that if that were done, the position of the farmer would become satisfactory. Let us test this theory. The average wheat crop of Australia is about 200,000,000 bushels. Of that about 50,000,000 bushels are consumed locally for bread-making, and as seed wheat. That is to say, out of every four bags of wheat produced in Australia one is consumed locally. Unemployment at the height of the depression reached 32 per cent. In other words, one-third of the workers were unemployed. Let us assume that that onethird ate no bread at all, although those of us who are aware of the splendid State organizations to cope with unemployment know they were never more efficient than they have been during the depression. But assuming that they ate no bread at all, and were suddenly put into work, the utmost they would add to the local consumption of wheat in the form of flour would be about 17,000,000 bushels. The local consumption would then amount to 67,000,000 bushels, instead of 50,000,000 bushels, and we should still have to export 133,000,000 bushels of our average wheat crop. I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that he has not propounded a solution of this problem. 
I listened also with interest to  Senator Johnston,  and must confess to a feeling of disappointment at the spirit which he displayed in discussing the bill. He appeared to offer a grudging acceptance of it. At one stage he seemed to be advocating that the Government should pay the debts of the whole of the farmers, including the one-third to whom  Senator Collett  referred as being able to make their own financial arrangements. I do not believe that is the outlook of the average farmer in Australia. I think he is just as independent as any other section of the community, and would prefer to pay his own debts if he were in a position to do so. He has no claim on the rest of the community to pay them, if he can pay them for himself. There is, however, a section of the wheat-growers that is quite unable to pay its debts. In this connexion, I remind honorable senators that the bill deals, not merely with wheat-farmers, but with all sections of the farming industry. I have heard him refer to one section, the sugar-growers of Queensland, as if it consisted of bloated capitalists. I presume he does not want any of this money to be used to pay off the debts of the sugar-farmers who, according to what he has said, ought to be in a position to make their own financial arrangements. 
But not much of this money will go to the sugar-farmers. I remind the honorable senator that Queensland is one of the greatest dairy-farming States of the Commonwealth, and that the position of the dairying industry is almost as bad as that of the wheat-growers. Another factor which  Senator Johnston  left out of account when dealing with the wheatfarmers, was that this is only part of a general scheme of rural rehabilitation which is proposed by the Government. In addition to the amount for which this bill provides, other money is being found, particularly for the wheat-grower.  Senator Johnston  made an attack on the Government, declaring that during the election campaign, we promised £20,000,000 for rural relief. I noticed, by the way, that in neither of the two speeches from which he quoted was any reference made to £20,000,000. He quoted a speech by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  in which the amount mentioned was not £20,000,000, but a sum of between £15,000,000 and £20,000,000. He quoted also from a speech made by myself at Jamestown, South Australia. In that case I referred to an amount of from £10,000,000 to £15,000,000, and according to my teaching, £10,000,0000 is just one-half of £20,000,000. 
Let us see what the Government is proposing to spend on behalf of the farmers in these three years. Last year - after those speeches were made - the Government found £3,000,000 by way of bounty on wheat, and it will have to find from £2,000,000 to £4,000,000 for the wheat-farmer in respect of the coming harvest. It has also found £250,000 by way of bounty on superphosphate, which is available for farmers to use. 
It has provided assistance for the growers of citrus and other fruits. . I think  Senator Badman  gave the total amount. If these several items are aggregated, it will be found that in the three-years period mentioned in the policy speeches made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  and myself, the amount found by this Government will exceed £20,000,000.  Senator Johnston  quoted from a speech that I made at Jamestown during the election campaign. 
-I may, perhaps, be pardoned for agreeing with the honorable senator. At that time, the Government had considered the main outlines of a policy of rural recovery, and I was authorized to make that speech as indicating the lines along which the mind of the Government, at the time, was running. The general outline was given, but the details remained to be worked out. If the honorable senator will look at the GovernorGeneral's Speech at the opening of this Parliament, he will find that it was indicated by the Government there, and also I think in the Prime Minister's policy speech, that such a policy would require co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. It was indicated in the Governor-General's Speech that it was not possible for the Commonwealth itself to carry out such a policy; it would have to seek the co-operation of the States. The Commonwealth did seek that co-operation, but  Senator Johnston  failed to give the result of our efforts. A conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers on agricultural and marketing matters was held at Parliament House, Canberra, on the 3rd and 4th December last. The representatives of the Commonwealth and the States were as follows :  - 

 Commonwealth. - The Right Honorable Earle Page:  Senator the  Sight Honorable  Sir George  Pearce; the Honorable T. Paterson;  Senator the  Honorable A. J. McLachlan; the Honorable R. G. Casey;  Senator the  Honorable T. C. Brennan ; the Honorable H. V. C. Thorby. 

 New South Wales. - The Honorable B. S. B. Stevens, Premier and Colonial Treasurer; the Honorable H. Main, Minister for Agriculture. 

 Victoria. - The Honorable J. Allan, Minister for Agriculture; the Honorable A. A. Dunstan, Minister for Lands; the Honorable J. P. Jones, Assistant Treasurer. 
.- The statement of the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  of what occurred in December was very interesting, but unfortunately it does not afford much consolation to those who had to rely upon policy speeches to ascertain the Government's intention in connexion with a general rural rehabilitation plan. As I mentioned previously, no Commonwealth Ministers were in Western Australia, and the people in that State had to be guided by the newspaper reports of policy speeches and widely distributed statements by Ministers. The speech delivered by the right honorable senator at Jamestown showed clearly the Government's intentions in regard to the distribution of this money. The fact that, long after the election,  Dr. Earle  Page attended a conference at Canberra and informed State Ministers who protested and asked for something else, that money could not be found for a real rural rehabilitation plan, is little consolation to those who supported the policy outlined by  Senator Pearce  at Jamestown three months before. The right honorable gentleman has told us that the statements he made were at the request and with the approval of the Cabinet. 
I ask the honorable senator to connect his remarks with the clause. 
What would suit one State would not suit another, and it was proposed to deal with each State separately and through State governments. Each State government would be asked to put forward its own proposition based on what was considered most suitable in the particular circumstances ; the Commonwealth finding the money. 
Western Australia submitted its proposition, and the Premier of Western Australia, in a letter, pointed out that at the conference held at Canberra on 3rd and 4th December, the 
Minister for Lands representing his Government stressed the point that the grants could he used to the best advantage in that State in providing horse power, fencing material and water supplies, and  for  the replacement of worn-out machinery, I move - 
That at the end of the clause the following proviso be inserted: - 
Provided that, with the approval of the Parliament of any State, the whole or any portion of the grant to that State may be used for - 
the replacement of worn out plant and machinery; 
providing horses for the purpose of working farms; 
the re-adaptation of wheat lands to mixed farming by the provision of fencing (including rabbit-proof fencing) and facilities for the supply of water; and ((2) such other purposes in relation to rural rehabilitation as that Parliament thinks fit. 
The Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry urged in Part 8 of its report the adoption of the policy proposed by the Government of Western Australia. The amendment is also in consonance with the policy expounded by  Senator Pearce  at Jamestown before the election, and with the promises made by the leaders of the two parties now supporting the Government. I trust that the committee will not oppose an amendment which is in accord with the views of at least one State government. 
[10.40].  -  The Government cannot accept the amendment.  Senator Johnston  is entitled to all the satisfaction he can get in showing that there is a variation between the proposals embodied in the bill and the policy put forward 'by myself at Jamestown, and advocated by  Dr. Earle  Page. I admit that a change occurred as a result of the views expressed at a conference held in Canberra. When we realized the difficulties which would arise by allowing each State to submit its own scheme, the Commonwealth having to enter into a separate agreement with each State, we agreed that our original proposal would have to be abandoned. This bill embodies the principles finally agreed upon between the Commonwealth and the States at that conference, and we think that the change is in the right direction. The amendment would be an entire negation of the principles of the bill in that it provides for separate agreements with each State, a policy which had to be abandoned. 
 Can the Acting AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Brennan)  say whether there would be a reasonable probability of the amendment, if adopted, being held by the High Court to be  intra vires  the powers of the Commonwealth Parliament? 
.- The Constitution expressly provides that the Parliament may grant money to any State upon any terms or conditions it chooses.  Senator Johnston,  who, as the Minister says, always drags in Western Australia, has not confined his amendment to that State. He uses the words "with the approval of the parliament of any State ". In these circumstances I do not think that we can cavil at it from the constitutional viewpoint. Whether the amendment, as my colleague  Senator McLachlan,  says, comes within the title of the bill, is another matter. It provides for handing over to a State the complete control of the money voted by the Commonwealth Parliament. 
I should he glad if the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  would tell the Senate how this system of distribution was arrived at. 
Copies of the right honorable senator's speech are not yet available. In my secondreading speech on this bill I pointed out that during the last two harvests for which figures are available the States of South Australia and Western Australia cropped larger areas with wheat than did the State of Victoria. I was unable to obtain figures regarding other agricultural production and debts thereon for purposes of comparison. Having regard to the relatively undeveloped farms and the protests of the State governments, it would appear that the farmers of Western Australia and South Australia are in greater need of debt relief than are the farmers of Victoria. I certainly think that the governments of those States are entitled to at least as much money as hasbeen provided for New South Wales. It certainly seems to me a disproportionate allocation that gives Western Australia, comprising onethird of the continent only a little more than one-tenth of the total amount to be granted. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [10.53]. - As honorable senators are aware, the allocation of this money was decided upon after consultation with the States. Following upon a conference of Commonwealth and State Statisticians,  Mr. E.  T. McPhee, the Commonwealth Statistician, reported as follows: - 
Various suggestions were put forward by the State Statisticians for the consideration of the Commonwealth Statistician, but in my opinion no one of the suggested methods could be worked out in practice in such a way as to satisfy the reasonable claims of the representatives of all the States, or to produce, what in my opinion, would be a completely equitable allocation. 
I have arrived at this conclusion after an exhaustive survey of all the statistical material available on the subject of rural debts (which is manifestly inadequate for the purpose of allocating the grant), and after detailed analysis of statistics in each State relating to pre-depression and depression values of rural production, relative total populations, farm populations, numbers of master farmers, numbers of rural holdings, and movement in prices and costs of production. 
After examining this material very exhaustively, I proceeded to work out an allocation on the basis which seems to me least open to objections, either in principle or from the interested parties. 
The underlying feature of this method was the estimated loss to farmers in value ofrural production due to depression prices, which losses brought about the debt difficulties. On the basis of an average or normal value of production in each State, the losses were calculated by taking the average of prices realized by farmers for a group of depression years compared with the corresponding average for a group of pre-depression years. The relative losses so ascertained for the different branches of rural industry in the several States were used as a primary basis of allocation. The final allocation was arrived at after giving weight to other relevant factors, such as changes in relative volumes of production, available data relating to debts due to the Crown and private creditors, relative proportions of land leased from the Crown in each State, &amp;c. 
I regard this method of allocation as less open to objection than any other method put forward, and I suggest that £10,000,000 out of £12,000,000 should be allocated on this basis. The remaining £2,000,000 could, for the time being, be held in reserve, and be used at a subsequent date to correct any anomalies which may become apparent when more information as to actual relative needs becomes available as the result of the future operations of the States in the field of debt relief. 
The application of the method described above gives the following allocation among the States of the sum of £10,000,000 . . . 
Then  Mr. McPhee  set out the figures which I have mentioned in my secondreading speech. The difficulty is that  Senator Johnston  looks upon this matter entirely from the point of view of the wheat-farmers. This bill provides for assistance to all farmers and while "Western Australia has a very large number of wheat-farmers in comparison with Victoria and Queensland, it has a comparatively small number engaged in dairying. Then there are fruit-growers, viticulturists and farmers of all kinds, who are taken into consideration in this scheme. The Commonwealth Statistician can be regarded as an impartial judge of the matter. If anomalies are found to exist later, the £2,000,000 which is being held in reserve can be used to rectify them. 

 Senator LYNCH (Western Australia) [10.55 J. - I am loath to join in a discussion of this matter; first, on account of the office I hold ; and secondly, because I have no desire to question the formula adopted for the purpose of dividing the grant between the respective States of the Commonwealth. I believe that the Government is animated by a desire to see the scales of justice held evenly, so that no injustice is done to any particular area. But I did not discover in the speech of the Leader of the Senate any reference to one of the chief influences at work in this country, affecting pre judicially the interests of the very class of people we are now attempting to help. I refer to the effect of the fiscal policy of the Commonwealth upon the . primary producers. If the Statistician did not take that factor into account, I submit that he has failed in his duty. This matter lies at the very root of the dissatisfaction that is felt by every primary producer of this country, and particularly every wheat-grower. 
Yes, but in differing degrees. I remind the Minister that, for the first time in the history of this country, we are engaged in creating a system for the protection of rural industries. In the past our efforts have been devoted largely towards improving a system of protection of secondary industries. At last we have come to the conclusion that action is overdue for the protection of primary industries, upon the success of which the prosperity of this country depends. The Bruce-Page Government commissioned five experts to investigate and report upon the effect which the protective policy of the Commonwealth had upon the social, financial and economic standards of the respective States. 
The greater includes the less, and if it is found that the protective policy of the Government bears more crushingly on one State than on another, and that the farmers in some States are not bearing their proportion of the burden. I do not see bow the Minister can rebut my criticism. That committee, as honorable senators will recall, consisted of Professors Brigden, Copland and Giblin, and Messrs. Wickens and Dyason. The figures to which I direct attention are to be found on page 231 of their report under the heading " Subsidies to Protect Production  per head of Population in each State." It is important that, when dealing with a measure by which we are laying the foundation for the protection to be given to primary industries, we shall have a clear knowledge of the basis upon which the statisticians arrived at their figures. 
Yes,  Mr. Chairman.  The figures given by the committee of experts for the various States are as follows: - New South Wales, £5 per head of population; Victoria, £7; Queensland, £8; South Australia, £3; Western ' Australia, £3 ; Tasmania, £4. These figures show that as regards the benefits derived from the tariff protection of industries, Queensland and Victoria are well ahead of the other States. New South Wales is nearly up to the average, but South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania are well below it. The committee also made this comment - 
We next inquired in what proportion these subsidies are contributed by the different States in paying the excess prices of protected Australian products . . . Without attempting to give a full distribution of costs on these lines, we may say that the result is to make the burden per head in Victoria and Queensland which have relatively small exports, much below the general average, with the other States above the average, and Western Australia particularly high. 
My point now is that if the statisticians in fixing the basis for the distribution of the money to be made available under this bill, did not take into account the effect of the tariff burden on the respective States per head of population, they failed in their duty. 
 Senator Daly  ought to be with me in this matter, because his State suffers to the same extent as Western Australia from the protective policy of the Commonwealth. Its contribution to the protective subsidies is £3 per head of population, or approximately £1,000,000, Western Australia on the same basis pays at least £1,300,000. 
.- I direct attention to sub-clause 3, and I shall be glad if the Minister will offer some explanation of its intention. It reads - 
No grant shall bo made under this act to a Stale unless or until there is in force in the State legislation constituting an authority empowered on application being made to it, and at its discretion, to take action having the effect of suspending, either wholly or in part, the rights of any secured or unsecured creditor of a farmer against that farmer. 
Am I to understand that the authority has to be created by a State before it can participate in the money to be provided under this bill, and will the authority have power to suspend the rights of any secured or unsecured creditor- of a farmer? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [11.6].  -  The purpose of the subclause is to require a State to set up an authority, and in order that some creditor shall not be able to take advantage of the position of a farmer by enforcing his claim to the detriment of other creditors, that authority will have power to issue a stay order, so that negotiations may proceed with a view to arriving at a composition. 
 I commend  Senator Lynch  for having raised the point with regard to  per capita  cost of the protective system. If the statisticians, when considering the allocation of the money to be provided under this bill, did not give due weight to -the incidence of the tariff on the people of the smaller States, their calculations are absurdly inaccurate. In addition to the tariff burden, the people of Western Australia have suffered definite disabilities under the Navigation Act. I did not hear the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  say that consideration had been given by the statisticians to the effect of that act  on  the primary producers in Western Australia, although no one can deny that it has increased the cost of agricultural machinery by 12£ per cent. 

 - Senator Johnston is in order in asking if the factors he has mentioned were taken into account by the statisticians, but he is not entitled to discuss generally the effect of the tariff and the Navigation Act on primary industries. 
The Leader of the Senate explained the basis of allocation recommended by the Commonwealth Statistician. Certain questions have been asked of Ministers regarding the factors taken into consideration by the Statistician. Honorable senators are entitled to make passing reference only to the effect of the tariff or the Navigation Act. 
That the figures "£3,450,000" be left out. 
I regret that  Senator Johnston  has raised this issue before the point to which I had directed attention had been cleared up. I am not quite satisfied with the reply given by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  as to the meaning of subclause 3, which empowers the authority to be constituted by a State to suspend either wholly or in part the rights of any secured or unsecured creditor against a farmer. There are only two kinds of creditors - secured and unsecured. Does this mean that if a secured creditor believing that a person who owes him money and has defaulted for years in the payment of interest is able to pay, decides to take proceedings in court, this authority may suspend wholly or in part the rights of that secured creditor. 
I think there ought to be provision enabling the party interested to show cause why the suspension should not take place. 
 I wish to ask the Minister a question in relation to the reduction of the original amount of £1,800,000 to £1,300,000. While the bill which was introduced and passed by the South Australian Parliament was under discussion, it was stated that South Australia would receive £1,800,000 out of the total of £12,000,000 or one-seventh of the total.  In  this case South Australia is allocated only £1,300,000, a reduction of £500,000 from the amount which it was understood would be received. I fail to understand on what basis a reduction of £500,000 can be made. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [11.18].- The honorable senator has been referring to a rough and ready calculation worked out  in an  arbitrary manner before the investigations took place. It was understood to be of only a temporary character,  pending  consideration by the Commonwealth Statistician in consultation with the State statisticians. That consideration has since been given to the matter and this represents the final working out of the distribution. It was provided that when the final distribution was arranged, the first figures should be adjusted. This is the adjustment. 
 I wish to affirm what my South Australian colleague,  Senator Badman,  has said : That it was understood in South Australia that the amount which that State would obtain under this bill was to be £1,800,000. The South Australian Government was most distinctly under that impression. 
I understand that its calculations have been very seriously upset by the fact that the amount eventually allotted works out at a little over two-thirds of the original amount. I want to make a few observations on the tariff question, which I think is quite material to the point we are discussing as to the way in which the distribution of these moneys is to be made. Looked at from one point of view you might say there should be no distribution on account of the tariff. The Leader of the Opposition in another place said only four days ago that the tariff is not a burden on the farmers. If we accept that point of view there will be no adjustment at all on account of the tariff. I think, however, that the tariff imposes a very heavy burden on the farmers and that, as  Senator Lynch  has said, it should have been taken into account when the amounts were being worked out. One answer to this might be that allowance under this heading has been made to the poorer States under the State Grants Bill. I think that is correct : my recollection is that it was taken into account in the amount that was allotted. But I also remember that it is very strongly emphasized in  The Australian Tariff  that not only is the primary producer affected by the tariff but that the primary producing States as well are affected by it. In other words the tariff hits both the primary producer and the primary producing State itself. Therefore, if the Government is going to make any allowance on account of the tariff in making the State grants, it should equally on the same reasoning make an allowance when carrying out a distribution for the purposes of rural rehabilitation as distinct from what one might call urban rehabilitation. As to the difference between the various cities and the various rural parts of States I should not like to speak without giving the matter more consideration than has been possible during the few minutes that we have had this matter under discussion. It must be recognized, however, that there is a higher standard of living and comfort in the great industrial cities than there is in the country; that the standard of living in the industrial and highly-populated States is higher than can be supported elsewhere, even with the help of these grants from the Commonwealth. I would not like to say how the difference should be calculated. I should say that in New South "Wales the feeling as between country and city - as between the mid-west and Sydney - is stronger than the feeling between country and city in the smaller States. It is not an easy thing to calculate. 
Does that decide the question? 
I am discussing the whole question. Does the honorable senator say that the tariff has no bearing upon it? 
It is not only a question of the wage they get, but of the comforts and facilities they enjoy. Any man in the street who has considered the subject will tell you that the comfort of these greater cities is far beyond what it is or can be in the smaller cities. 
The point I think is that the prosperity of the industrial citizen makes his State prosperous. The Australian tariff to some extent - to what extent I am unable to say - makes the dweller in a State like New South Wales more prosperous than a country dweller in a smaller State. 
And much more hostile to the capital of their State than are the farmers in poorer States. Taking the rural population as a whole, I should say that the country dweller in the poorer States is worse off than the country dweller in the richer States. 

 Several honorable senators interjecting, 

I think I must he getting somewhere near the mark when my observations arouse so many objections from the Opposition. 
I am not putting the matter from a narrowminded point of view. I have given two opposite points of view, because I am interested in finding what is a fair thing to do in this matter. I want to see which side of my argument is the sounder. I think that that which maintains that the tariff is a factor in a calculation of this kind is the sounder one. I ask, also, whether it is not possible, if any adjustment is to be made, to bring it under sub-clause 4 of clause 6, which applies to the unallotted £2,000,000. That would not make any difference to the total amount. If it is found, on further consideration, than an additional allowance should be made to States adversely affected by the tariff, would it not be possible to make that adjustment under this sub-clause? 
 I wish to inform  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that it was in no spirit of hostility that we interjected while he was speaking a few moments ago. We desired to let him know that his sentiments in regard to purchasing power only suggested to us that, if we had on the industrial court benches men of his opinion, we should obtain in New South Wales wages different from those which operate there to-day. We cannot dismiss the Statistician's figures in one case and invoke them in aid in another. We have to take them. 
 Senator DuncanHughes  would invite a man into  his home  and allow him to remain only so  long  as he expressed views with which he himself agreed. 
No. In passing the second reading, the Senate accepted  the  principle underlying the  bill.  In the absence of argument, which  has not  yet been advanced, or of an amendment, which has not yet been put forward,  I  shall not deprive the farmers of South Australia of the benefits  of this  measure. If, however, either  Senator Badman  or  Senator Duncan-Hughes  is  prepared  to move an amendment, and advance his reasons for it, and I am convinced  that  the Government will not let the farmers of South Australia down, I  shall  support it. Otherwise, I shall support  the  Government.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  smiles, but neither he nor  Senator Badman  is game to move an amendment against the Government. I challenge them to submit an alternative proposal. 
After this week I shall not be able to challenge the honorable senators in this chamber, but I can, and do, challenge them. now. If they disagree with the Government's proposals, I ask them now to put forward an alternative. 

 Senator E. B. JOHNSTON  (Western Australia [11.35].  -  If the effects of the tariff and of the Navigation Act have not been taken into consideration, we  are  indeed in a serious position.  While  the discussion on this clause has been in progress, I have tried to re-allocate the grant, taking those factors into account. I do not ask the Senate to accept these rough figures, but the amounts, as reapportioned, would be approximately - 

<graphic href="146332193504081_53_0.jpg"></graphic>

In view of the amazing fact that the tariff and Navigation Act have not been taken into account, the whole subject should be referred back to the Statistician for further consideration. To test the opinion of the committee, I move - 
That the amount to be allocated to New South Wales be reduced to £2,400,000. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [11.39]. - I trust that the committee will not accept the amendment. I suggest that, if the contention that the tariff affects wheat-farmers in Western Australia to a greater extent than it does the wheat-farmers in New South Wales is correct, that fact finds expression in the magnitude of the debts of the farmers of the former State. This is a bill to adjust the debt of farmers, and the Statistician took into consideration the magnitude of their debts. Therefore, if the tariff has had the effect claimed, that effect must be reflected in the magnitude of the debts. Although the Statistician might not, in express terms, have taken the tariff into consideration, the effect, if any, of the tariff in the direction indicated, must be reflected in the greater debts of the farmers in the State in which the tariff has had the most deleterious effect. 
.- The whole subject of the allocation to the States is now under review. Long before  Senator Johnston  moved his amendment, I compared the figures in the bill with the amounts that the several States would receive if the allocation were made on a population basis. On that basis, the amounts set out in the bill place the States in the following order:' Western Australia, first; South Australia, second; Tasmania, third; New South Wales, fourth; Victoria, fifth; and Queensland last. If this subject is to be pursued further, Queensland, which like Western Australia, is largely a rural State, should be given greater consideration. Moreover, if a certain policy affects the wheat-growersof Australia, it must also affect other producers. I suggest that if we are not to enter into a discussion covering a very wide field, w e should reject the amendment. 
I must have expressed myself very badly if, when I spoke previously, I gave the impression that I proposed to move an amendment against the Government. I have not the slightest intention of supporting the amendment moved by  Senator Johnston,  or of moving an amendment myself. I decline to accept the challenge of  Senator Daly,  although I have been known to move amendments against the Government. It is deplorable to find that when a large sum of money is being distributed for what we all agree is a most deserving purpose, the representatives of the different States begin to squabble amongst themselves as to how the amount shall be apportioned. Any one having any knowledge of New South Wales must admit that it is a large and powerful State in which there is a great varietyof rural producers. Therefore, I am not surprised to find that a large amount is being allocated to New South Wales. I support the remarks of  Senator Lynch.  The tariff should be a material factor in the allocation of this amount; and if the Government thinks that there is anything in his contention I trust that further consideration will be given to it. 1 cannot, however, support the statement' of the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  that if the farmers in one State are in poorer circumstances than those in others that fact will necessarily be reflected in the greater magnitude of their debts. We have to consider the vital factor of whether such farmers are or are not living under extravagant conditions. Different States have different degrees of thrift and extravagance. 
Yes ; but, as between States, the degree of thrift comes into consideration. I trust that the committee will reject the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
[11.1]. - I ask leave to move without notice a motion for leave to introduce a bill to amend the Immigration Act. As we are nearing the end of this period of the session there can be no question as to the urgency of the action I propose to take. As a result of a recent High Court judgment a very serious flaw, which may have a serious bearing on our White Australia legislation, has been discovered in the act. 
Is leave granted ? 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) put - 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended  as  would prevent him moving a motion for leave to introduce the Immigration Bill, without notice. 
Is the Leader of the Government aware that a very large portion of Queensland is suffering from one of the worst droughts which has been experienced in that State for the last 30 or 35 years, and which is causing considerable distress to many of the people there? In view of the fact that the Government has from time to time made grants to assist sufferers from serious floods, cyclones and droughts, will it consider the desirability of making available a grant to help people in the droughtstricken areas? 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Government been approached upon the matter of assisting in the establishment in Australia of a permanent National Opera? 
If so, what are  its  views upon the question ? 
Will it consider the possibility and advisability of this project being launched and financed by the National Broadcasting Commission ? 
Yes. 
The question is receiving the consideration of the Government. 
The Government has already consulted the Australian Broadcasting Commission on the subject. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
In view of his replies to earlier questions regarding the suggested change in the manner of representation in the Senate, to the effect that no report on the matter had been received and it had not yet been given full consideration by Cabinet, will he inform the Senate whether the matterhas been referred to the Chief and Deputy Electoral Officers for inquiry and report ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson)  has supplied me with the following answer: - 
The matter has not yet been referred to the Electoral Authorities for inquiry and report. 
.- Can the .Minister in charge of the bill inform the committee whether unpaid interest will be considered a debt to which the provisions of this bill can be applied if all the parties concerned are willing? Many mortgagees to whom interest is owed would be willing to take a smaller sum in cash if this bill applied to them. 
[11.20]. - I am rather dubious about giving an answer offhand to the question of the honorable senator, but the officers advising the Crown appear to think that unpaid interest, except interest due to the Crown, is a debt which, subject to the consent of the creditors, should be admitted as a debt. 
.- I move- 
That the following paragraph be inserted after paragraph (&lt;i) -  " (aa)  lt shall be a condition of the State scheme that no payment of any of the moneys shall be made by or under a judgment or garnishee order of any court of the State." 
As approximately £10,000,000 is to be allocated to the farmers, " big business ", following the law of the financial jungle, will do its best to get as much of that amount as possible for itself. We all know that current accounts in the banks are subject to the garnishee laws, whereas saving bank accounts are not. Although this is Commonwealth money, it is proposed to hand it over to the States, and I am anxious that we shall not leave any opportunity for the farmers to be robbed. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [11.25]. - Money paid by the Commonwealth to a State could not be legally subject to a garnishee order. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The first point is that money paid by the Commonwealth to the State cannot, at any stage, be subject to a garnishee order. The next point has reference to the protection of the estate when the authority constituted under the State act proceeds to deal with the money. I direct attention to subsection 3 of clause 6, which provides - 2^0  grant shall he made under this act to ii. State unless or until there is in force in thu State legislation constituting an authority empowered, on application being made to it, and at its discretion, to take action having the effect of suspending, either wholly or in part, the rights of any secured or unsecured creditor of a farmer against that farmer. 
That covers the point raised. Before the money can be paid to the State an authority must be set up, and that authority must be empowered, at its discretion, on an application being made to it. to suspend either wholly or in part the  right  of any secured or unsecured creditor of a. farmer against that farmer. The amendment is not necessary because the point raised is completely covered by clause 6. 
I do not agree with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that clause 6 has any relevancy at all to the point raised by  Senator Dunn.  That clause simply suspends any payment on the part of the Commonwealth until the State has constituted a tribunal; but once that tribunal had been set up and appropriated the money to the farmer, that money would be subject to the garnishee laws, unless some special provision were made to the contrary. I remind the right honorable gentleman that the workmen's compensation laws which operate throughout the Commonwealth contain a special provision that when a tribunal which has been constituted to decide the amount of compensation has arrived at a decision, any payment under the judgment shall not bc subject to a garnishee order. If the Government intends to protect the farmer against the possibility of the money granted to him being garnisheed the bill should contain a specific provision which would place the matter beyond all possible doubt The amendment is a simple one and the Government should accept it, if only to make the position more certain. In my opinion, the clause quoted by the Leader of the Senate does not protect the farmer to the extent that he suggested. We are concerned only that the money appropriated for, and paid to, a farmer shall not be garnisheed. I understand that that is the purpose of  Senator Dunn's  amendment. I am open to conviction, but I am inclined to think that, as the bill stands, once the tribunal has arrived at a decision, the money granted to a farmer could be garnisheed by a creditor, in which event the intention of the Government when it framed this legislation would be defeated. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs)  [11.30]. -  I have great diffidence in combating the view of  Senator Daly,  who is a lawyer; but I have heard the sub-clauses of clause  6  fully discussed by other legal gentlemen.  Senator Daly  seems to be under some misapprehension as to how the machinery provided in this clause will operate. Before any money is paid the States must set up an authority and, by legislation, endow that, authority with power to issue a stay order. A meeting of the creditors is then called. Up to that stage no money has passed, and it does not pass until a composition has been arrived at. Otherwise any one of the creditors could upset the whole arrangement by taking proceedings to enforce his particular claim. But there is nothing upon which he could en force it at that stage, and as no money is paid to the farmer or to the creditor until a composition has been arrived at, there is nothing to garnishee. The money is still in the hands of the State. Not until the money is paid by the authority created by the State can any action be taken. But even then the authority is protected by issuing the stay order. Therefore, even at the stage when the money is actually passing, no creditor would have any right of garnishee. The money is not paid to the farmer, but to his creditors on his behalf. The benefit he derives from the composition is the writing-off of portion of his debt. The farmer is doubly protected, first, by the issue of the stay order by the State authority and, secondly, by the fact that the money is paid to his creditors. That is the price of, or the inducement for, the composition. Honorable senators will see that the amendment moved by  Senator Dunn  is unnecessary. 
 One principle which has consistently been enunciated in this debate is that the Commonwealth Government shall definitely lay down conditions governing the disbursement of Commonwealth money by the States. There is much point in the amendment moved by  Senator Dunn,  inasmuch as it makes the position of the farmer doubly certain, by laying down definite conditions to govern the expenditure of this money. Unless this amendment is carried it is possible that even although a stay order has been issued, some " smart Alec " may secure a garnishee order and, if the sum is a considerable one, costly litigation may arise. The bill enables the State authority to take action in its discretion, but if the amendment is carried that authority will have no discretionary power; it will be bound by a mandatory provision in the bill that no payment shall be made under a garnishee order or other order of a State court. I support the amendment. 
 Are these compositions or schemes of arrangement to be compulsory or voluntary? Who will initiate them? Will the compositions be compelled by the authorities which the respective States will set up? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [il.38]. - The compositions or schemes of arrangement are not made compulsory by this law. All the States have not yet legislated fully in regard to this matter. I understand that in South Australia these compositions will be compulsory, but in New South Wales they will be voluntary. In each State the matter will be governed by State legislation. 
I am una'ble to understand the opposition of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  to my amendment. Suppose the State authority agrees to pay part or the whole of a farmers' debt to his grocer. What is to prevent a creditor of the grocer from proceeding by garnishee to obtain that money from him? My amendment is designed merely to tighten up the provisions of this clause. Garnishee proceedings might be initiated at the very source of this grant, for the law of garnishee operates in the Federal Capital Territory as well as in the States. 
It may be  garnisheed  at any stage. The acceptance of this amendment will not cost the Government anything and its effect will be merely to tighten up the provisions of the bill. The law has as many prickles as a porcupine, and we should endeavour to simplify the law and minimize the possibilities of error and injustice. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [11.44]. - Apparently, the point that the ..
honorable senator is endeavouring to make is that, if the grocer is one of the creditors to whom money is paid by the authority under some composition or arrangement it may be garnisheed  by a creditor of the grocer. But it cannot be  garnisheed  between the authority and the grocer. By reason of the stay order, payment may be made to the grocer as a creditor of the farmer, but when it gets into his hands it becomes part of his assets, and if he owes money he is subject to the ordinary State law governing the recovery of debts. The Commonwealth Government cannot follow that money to its final destination. 
Paragraph  a  could not be debated if the amendment were agreed to. If the honorable senator wishes to discuss paragraph  a  I suggest that  Senator Dunn  withdraw his amendment temporarily. ' 
Amendment -  by leave  - withdrawn temporarily. 
The answer given by  Senator Pearce  to the point raised by  Senator Sampson  makes it difficult to understand the real import of this measure. Paragraph  a  reads - 
The money shall be used by the State, in pursuance of a scheme authorized by or under the law of the. State (in this section referred to as " the State scheme " ) for the purpose of discharging in whole or in part the debts of farmers by means of compositions or schemes of arrangement between farmers and any or all of their creditors. 
Sub-clause 3 of clause 6 suggests that the compositions are to be voluntary, because if they were compulsory how could one creditor forestall another? The Minister said that some States are making compositions compulsory while others will be operating on a voluntary basis. Is the administration of this relief scheme to be at the whim of the party in power in a State? Surely it is wrong in principle to compel creditors to agree to a proposed composition. When the scheme was first suggested it was understood that the Government would furnish money for specific purposes, and that the creditors of the farmers would be induced, as far as possible, to agree to a composition. It now appears that if a State authority decides to make a composition compulsory the person to whom the debt is due must accept so much in the £1 whether he likes it or not. If the position is as stated there will be differentiation between the States in the meeting of the liabilities of  the farmers. Clause 6 conveys the impression to the average person that the whole scheme is voluntary; otherwise why should the power be given to protect some creditors against others? 
A creditor could be told that if he were not prepared to come in with the other creditors he would have to take the risk of not being paid at all. If legislation of this kind is passed ordinary traders will not be able to obtain any accommodation on credit. How can any business man give an undertaking to a person from whom  he  purchases goods, that he can meet  his  liabilities when a State government may compel him to accept 5s. or 10s. in the £1 as a settlement of the debt owing to him? The whole scheme should be on a voluntary basis. 
They would have to take the risk of not being paid at all. 
Clause 6 gives to the constituted authority power to prevent one creditor from taking advantage of another. If this bill is passed in its present form it will paralyze trade. The whole community lives on credit and confidence between buyer and seller  must  be maintained so  that  trade  may  be carried on. If the positon is as I have set out I cannot support the clause. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [11.55]. -  Senator Payne  is under a misapprehension as the provision is not compulsory. The Commonwealth will hand the money over to the States which legislate as to the. basis on which a composition shall be achieved. If the Parliament of South Australia, which is responsible to the people of  that  State, may decide to make the scheme compulsory, that is a matter for its discretion. We do not give such ' legislation our imprimatur. Why should we? 
 Should there be any differentiation between the States? 
I am somewhat surprised at the statement of the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  because State legislation cannot override the Commonwealth bankruptcy laws. Anything done by tribunals appointed under State laws cannot affect the Commonwealth law. The rights of creditors will be determined by State legislation and not under the Commonwealth law. As a creditor of a farmer, I could stand out against a composition, and could not be compelled to agree to it. I could, of course, sue the farmer unless legislation too iniquitous to contemplate were passed, providing that any person who did not agree to the arrangement would not get anything. The States cannot make this  or  any other Commonwealth scheme compulsory unless this Parliament provides that it shall be compulsory. I should like this scheme to operate in the way the Government intends, and the farmers to be relieved of some of the burdens they are now carrying. Creditors should be encouraged to accept a reasonable composition, but we should be certain that the money they will receive will go into their pockets and will not be taken by some one else to whom they owe money. The Minister referred to the case of a grocer prepared to accept a composition of 15s. in the £1, and who might get his creditors in turn to accept a similar composition. But if he were offered 15s. in the £1, knowing that someone would garnishee the amount in his hands under the bankruptcy law, he would decline the arrangement. This proposal should be debated in a non-party spirit, and the suggestion of  Senator Payne  should be given the fullest consideration. We  should make certain that if a creditor gets money under a scheme of composition, it will not be  garnisheed  by someone else to whom he owes money. If that happens the creditor may be in a much worse plight than the farmer for whose assistance this measure has been, introduced. 
 Senator Daly  has just pointed out that, despite the views expressed by the Leader of the Senate, a State authority constituted under this bill cannot enter into an arrangement with the creditors of a farmer, and  Senator Payne  has emphasized that a team of bullocks could be driven through the provisions of paragraph  a,  which enacts that moneys granted to a State shall be used in pursuance of a scheme authorized by or under the law of a State for the purpose of discharging, in whole or in part, the debts of farmers by means of compositions or schemes of arrangements between farmers and any or all of their creditors. As it has been made clear that the Commonwealth law of bankruptcy is paramount, it follows that schemes of arrangement between farmers and " any or all " of their creditors will be nullified. This being a non-party measure, honorable senators on this side desire to assist the Government to make its provisions watertight. The Government should accept  Senator Payne's  suggestion. If an unemployed artisan obtains work in a railway workshop as, say, a boilermaker, his rate of wages is determined by an Arbitration Court award, but, under the existing law, there is nothing to prevent a creditor from garnisheeing  his wages. Unless the provisions in this measure are tightened up we may be sure that some creditors will take advantage of their position to force their claims. For once I am in agreement with  Senator Payne. 
 Senator Payne  is awakening rather late in the day to the danger of compulsion. While there is not in this measure a provision to compel the acceptance of a composition with regard to a farmer's debts, the States are compelled to set up an authority which might, and probably would, exercise a certain amount of compulsion in the case of secured creditors. Sub-clause 3 of clause 6 enacts that no grant shall be made to a State unless or until there is in force in the State legislation constituting an authority empowered, at its discretion, to take action to suspend wholly or in part the rights of any secured or unsecured creditors of a farmer against that farmer. This need not occasion the alarm which  Senator Payne  expressed just now. 
The position would have been very much better if the Government had adhered to its original intention to allow the various State Governments to use this money at their discretion. There is altogether too much compulsion and direction to the States in this legislation. The clause should be omitted so that the States would be free to adopt any measures for the distribution of the grant which they thought best for the rehabilitation of primary producers. 
Under this clause it will be possible for the authority to be set up by this bill to set off secured creditors against unsecured creditors, and in that way introduce the principle of compulsion with regard to compositions of farmers' debts. Would it not be possible to suspend the rights of certain unsecured creditors until the secured creditors were provided for?  Senator Foll  has mentioned the position of State authorities such as agricultural banks, which have advanced considerable sums to farmers. It seems to me that it would be possible for the debt tribunal to have the power to suspend the rights of other creditors until a certain proportion of the money owing by the farmers to the State Agricultural Bank had been repaid. 
I am anxious to obtain the view of the committee on this matter and have been considering how paragraph  a  could be amended to meet the case I have put. It  is not right that compulsion should apply to all creditors. I do not want one State to adopt a compulsory scheme and another a voluntary or mutual scheme. I therefore move - 
That the words "or all," paragraph  a,  be left out. 
If my amendment be agreed to any creditor who does not care to come into a scheme of composition will be able to stand out and take the risk. Other creditors will be protected by paragraph 3 of clause 6. While some creditors might well afford to accept a fairly low composition the position of others might be such that if they did so they would find it impossible to meet their engagements. In conference with those to whom a creditor of the farmer owed money he might be advised to hold off for a year or two in the hope that with a better season ho would have a chance of securing the whole of the money due to him. 
Not at all. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (  Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [12.8].- I canno't help feeling that the mountain in labour has produced a mouse. The words proposed to be left out do not touch the question of compulsion. They do not make the scheme compulsory; it is the legisla'tion of the States that may do so. This paragraph is necessary to give the farmers the benefit of the scheme. If, say, the debts in a certain case amounted to £1,000 and a composition could be obtained in respect of £950 of those debts, obviously the authority would consider that that was worth bringing about. I have been amused by the attempt on the part of  Senator Dunn  to claim  Senator Payne  as a convert to his views.  Senator Dunn  has been aiming at something entirely different from that which  Senator Payne  seeks to achieve. " In vain the net is set in the sight of any bird ". 
I think the Minister's view is correct, and I shall therefore ask leave to with draw my amendment. My desire is that the right of differentiation shall be eliminated from this bill. I want these arrangements to be voluntary and not compulsory. Some States have provided for a voluntary system and others for a compulsory system, but the majority of us I am sure are opposed to compulsion in these matters. 
Amendment -  by leave  - withdrawn. 
Amendment (by  Senator Payne)  negatived - 
That after the word " of " sixth occurring, paragraph (a), the words "voluntary and mutual " be inserted. 
Amendment (by  Senator Dunn)  proposed - 
That the following paragraph be inserted after paragraph (a) -  " (aa)  It shall be a condition of the State scheme that no payment of any of the moneys shall bc made by or under a judgment or garnishee order of any court of the State." 
The discussion has revealed a doubt on the part of many honorable senators as to whether the clause will carry out what is intended 
There is at all events a doubt on the part of some honorable senators.  Senator Daly,  who has legal knowledge, has expressed a doubt on the subject. 
There is a tendency on the part of every government to oppose any amendment suggested by the Opposition. The average government is inclined to think that its little baby is the best in the world. The Leader of the Government in the Senate will not deny that the proposed amendment, in substance, although its wording may need to be varied, meets with the approval of the Senate, and that it would help to make the position more positive. It can do no injury, while, on the other hand, it may prevent a possible misuse of the act. 
.- This is really a very important matter.  Senator Daly,  who is a lawyer, has expressed the opinion that the protection to be afforded the farmer is not made clear. 
The Minister is not a lawyer, but he says the provision is quite clear. 
We have in this bill many clauses for the limitation of the rights of the farmers. 
The farmer will be affected very seriously if there is a risk of the money that is intended for his relief being  garnisheed 
If there is any doubt in this respect - and to my mind there is considerable doubt - let us give the farmers the benefit of it. I see no harm in this amendment. It will give the- farmer the benefit of the doubt and make it quite clear that this money cannot be  garnisheed.  Undoubtedly, the farmer would lose if it could be  garnisheed. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [12.30].- If any honorable senator intends to support the amendment, I hope that he will not do so in tho belief that there is reason to doubt that under sub-clause 3 of clause 6 full protection is given, and provision made for the money reaching the person for whom it is intended. The amendment is not necessary. 

 Senator DALY (South Australia) 1*12.31 1 . - I disagree with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and challenge him to ask the Acting AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Brennan)  whether it is not a fact that a creditor of a farmer who has accepted a composition from the farmer will be liable under this legislation to have his composition garnisheed.  I remind the committee that there are many men in Australia to-day whose unfortunate financial position is entirely due to the fact that they have been carrying the farmers. If the creditors of the man who has given credit to the farmer have to wait until he has collected some money from the farmer, and if the farmer makes a composition of 10s. in the £1, how will they get on? 
Although the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has said that, in this matter, the Government has followed sound legal advice, I do not think that we can trust that advice. Only yesterday the decision of the High Court in the Griffin case, following an earlier decision in the Kisch case, provided further evidence of the incompetence and blundering of those who frame our laws. We cannot accept as sound the legal advice on which the Government rests its legislation. Thousands of pounds have been lost to the Commonwealth because of the blunders made in connexion with Herr Kisch and  Mr. Griffin.  Unfortunately, there has been not merely one blunder, but a series of blunders from start to finish. Australia has been held up to ridicule because ofits attempt to keep two men out of this country. Yet, in spite of this evidence of incompetence, the Leader of the Government in the Senate asks us to rely on the advice which has been tendered to him. 
Rather than have the position made plain and certain, the Government asks the committee to accept the opinion of its legal advisers, who have made numbers of mistakes. 
I move - 
That the words - " No payment under a composition or scheme of arrangement shall be made in respect of any debt," paragraph (e) be left out. 
In writing to the Commonwealth Government against the provision in the bill that the money made available should not be used for the reduction of Crown debts, the Premier of Western Australia said - 
With regard to the latter, it must be emphasized that no scheme of debt reduction would meet the situation in this State which excluded Crown debts. Approximately 50 per cent, of the aggregate amount owing by primary producers is due to the Agricultural Bank, which in ite amending legislation passed during the last session of Parliament, has been given the power - in agreement with other creditors - to write off, postpone, or compound debts owing by its borrowers. The Agricultural Bank hae already given substantial relief to a considerable number of its clients. 
The Agricultural Bank of Western Australia has already given substantial relief to a considerable number of its clients. I was in communication with the Western Australian Minister for Lands,  Mr. Troy  last week, in regard to this matter, and I have received the following telegram from him: - 
Agricultural Bank principal debt £13,600,000. Number of settlers 12,883. More than 50 per cent, of total farmers. Debt represents advances for improvements, machinery, stock, super, cropping. 
This debt, of course, includes debts owing to the soldier settlement and group settlement branches of the Agricultural Bank. It seems extraordinary to me that, in spite of all we have heard about preference to returned soldiers, a soldier settlement scheme financed by Commonwealth and State moneys should be definitely excluded from any relief afforded by this bill. I am aware that some reductions of soldier debts were effected a considerable time ago, but the circumstances of many settlers necessitate the further relief asked for by the Government of Western Australia. I do not know why these restrictions were- placed in this legislation, because they are entirely opposed to the policy of the Country party, as laid down by  Dr. Earle  Page in. a national broadcast on the 14th August, 1934. On that occasion he said - 
It is useless approaching any creditors with a composition or arrangement involving scaling down the debt without being able to offer an immediate consideration. The chief class of immediate consideration will, of course, be cash, and this is an essential when dealing with unsecured creditors. Others available would include power to offer and effect a writing down, of Crown dues, power to offer secured creditors quarterly interest payments at a rate agreed upon over specific periods; power to offer guarantees on behalf of the Crown. 
He said that the scheme would include relief from Crown debts. That is the very thing for which I am asking. In spite of those statements, broadcast from one end of Australia to the other and repeated on platform after platform throughout the country, debts due to the Crown are excluded by this legislation. If my amendment be carried it will be necessary to re-allocate the amounts to be granted to the States, because the small amount provided for Western Australia has been based on the understanding that more than one-half of its settlers who are debtors of the Agricultural Bank will be excluded so far as their debts covered by mortgages to that institution are concerned. A large proportion of the debtors of the Agricultural Bank have practically no other creditors, because, unfortunately, their circumstances are so involved that the bank has to supply them with their every requirement, including sustenance. As a matter of fact, the Agricultural Bank legislation recently passed in Western Australia gives to the bank an automatic lien over the stock on their properties, and they have been asked to give full security over the whole of their possessions. This matter is a very important one. If this amendment is not accepted, the mortgage and interest debts of more than one half of the settlers of Western Australia will be excluded from any relief under this legislation. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [2.23]. - The Government cannot accept this amendment, as it would be quite foreign to the whole scheme of the bill. As I have already pointed out this is a bill designed to afford relief to farmers, and not to relieve State budgets. What vill t be the effect if  Senator Johnston's  amendment is carried? The money provided under this bill will not go to the farmers; it will go to the farmers' creditors. Therefore, if the debts due to the Agricultural Bank were included the money allocated to Western Australia would go largely to that bank. In addition, there are the Rural Bank of New South Wales, the State Bank in South Australia, and the Agricultural Banks in Tasmania and Queensland. There is nothing to prevent the State Government of Western Australia from writing down these debts; but, of course,  the liability would remain with the State.  Senator Johnston  has informed us that, to-day; the debts owing to the Agricultural Bank  of Western Australia amount to £13,000,000 ; but I remind the honorable senator that the Agricultural Bank is backed  by tthe  State Government nf Western Australia, and, therefore, any money owing to that bank is really owing to the Stat? Government. There is nothing to prevent the Western Australian Government, if it wishes, from setting up under this scheme a State authority endowed with the power to write down Crown debts. The State authority is appointed by the State Government under its legislation, and the Government may say to such an authority, " If private creditors will agree to the writing down of their debt, you aro authorized to agree to the writing down of the debts due to the Agricultural Bank ". 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. I understand that a large proportion of these Crown debts are regarded as irrecoverable. The report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry definitely asserts that, to be so. I am quite sure that the State governments have already contemplated having to write down a good proportion of that debt. 

 Senator E. B. Johnston. They have  already written down a good deal of the debt. 
In extending sympathy to the amendment, one suffers the incurable handicap of defending past governments - at no time a task in regard to which one can work up any burning enthusiasm. But the effect of paragraphs e and  b  is to circumvent the purpose of the bill. As the Minister says, the object of this bill is to help those who need relief in respect of their debts. But, at the same time, provision is made that if a. debt is due to the Government, the person who should be helped shall get no relief at all. Let us examine the nature of the debts due to the governments. We know well enough that over an extended period it has been the trend of public policy in this country, rightly, T think, for governments to step in, and, in a practical way. extend sympathy to citizens in distress. Governments  have  come to the aid of distressed sections of the community in a way that private enterprise would not do. Having done that, and having incurred obligations, a sympathetic Government is now told that it is not to get any reward or recognition at all, and that it may please itself as to what steps it takes to ease the burdens of its debtors. It is a case of the Commonwealth Government " passing the buck " to State governments. The Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry stated that the total debts of the wheat-growers amount to about £151,000,000. That debt rests upon a tripod, one leg of which represents the governments of the wheat-producing States which are carrying a debt of £50,000,000. Another £50,000,000 is divided between the banks and other financial institutions, and the other £50,000,000 among machinery merchants, traders and private mortgagees. On an average the governments of the wheatproducing States bear one-third of the indebtedness of the wheat-growers, which has been incurred in accordance with frequently-applauded public policy. How do these four wheat-producing States compare with the Commonwealth which possesses infinitely greater resources ? If the amount of £50,000,000 owing to these governments is divided by four we find that each government is standing under an indebtedness of £12,500,000. This bill provides for the raising of £12,000,000 by the Commonwealth Government. While the Commonwealth is claiming credit for what it is doing, the relief it is offering is equivalent only to the burdon which the government of each of the wheatproducing States is now bearing, and which they are now :asked to write off or forgo, although the financial capacity of State governments is infinitely less than that of the central government. Each State government, by contributing £12,000,000, as the Minister suggests, would be doing as much as the central government is doing under this bill. If the Commonwealth Government were to do as much as the government of each wheat-producing State is expected to do, this measure should provide for the appropriation of £48,000,000, and not £12,000,000 only. 
The plea has been put forward that this legislation is not intended to improve the position of State budgets. I remind the Minister that the accounts of subsidiary organizations such as the Agricultural Bank in Western Australia, with which I am most familiar, water supply authorities and similar organizations in other States do not come into the State budgets, but are kept entirely separate. According to the report of the Wheat 
Commission, the Agricultural Bank of Western Autralia already has a deficit of £6,000,000, and it is expected to carry its present burden without assistance from the Commonwealth. Analysing that indebtedness we find that it has been incurred in providing practically everything settlers need, and which they have found it difficult to obtain from private sources. The Agricultural Bank of Western Australia has assisted the farmers of that State materially. In the first place it has helped them to clear their land, and during certain seasons has provided them with seed, super, horses, harness and sustenance. I suppose that similar assistance has been given by the governmental institutions in the other States. Although these concerns have rendered such valuable service to the producers they are now being penalized by being asked to wipe out or to write down the debts which the farmers have contracted' with them. The main object of this bill is to assist settlers, but those indebted to an agricultural bank or a similar State institution will not obtain any relief unless the State Government is willing to afford it. That is a negation of the expressed intention of the Government to help those who cannot help themselves. Governmental institutions are doing what , private traders have declined to do and have incurred obligations of no mean dimensions. A way out of the difficulty would be to analyse the debts and ascertain to what classes the mam items belong. Items of capital expenditure and unpaid rates and taxes could be dealt with as State governments desired, but those governments should be given credit for debts relating to current expenditure, such as assistance in clearing the land and other work of that nature. If the measure is allowed to pass in its present form, Western Australia and South Australia will be shouldering as big a burden as the Commonwealth; but Victoria and New South Wales, which are stronger States, will not have to bear the same strain. I have stressed the point previously that it is manifestly unfair to treat State institutions in this way merely because they have rendered a service which would not  be provided by private traders. If money has been paid by the agricultural banks to purchase seed and super, the cost incurred will be shown in the records. I trust that the Government will redraft the bill with the object of giving help to those settlers who are indebted to the Crown. If it will not do that some other means will have to be adopted to ensure that justice is done. 
 I have just had placed in  my  hands a recent copy of the  West Australian,  containing a startling statement by the Premier of Tasmania, and  as  the intention of the . amendment is to ensure effective supervision of -the machinery of the measure, I should like to know whether it is possible to prevent damaging statements  from  being made. The Premier of Tasmania accused this Government of conspiracy with the banks in connexion with this proposal. 
The right honorable gentleman told us just now that the insertion of this new paragraph would give the Government more power to effectively police this measure. 
 If the paragraph to which  Senator Daly  has referred has any bearing upon the clause, he may briefly state its import and ask for information. The honorable senator is net entitled to state a supposititious ease for the purpose of directing attention to something that may not be relevant to the clause. 
Amendment agreed to. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (West.tern Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [2.52].- I move- 
That after paragraph  (g)  the following paragraph bo inserted :  ; and (A) that the State shall furnish to the Minister within fourteen days after the first day of January and within fourteen days after the first day of July of each year a certificate by the Auditor-General of that State as to the compliance or otherwise by that State with thu conditions specified in the foregoing provisions of this section. 
The proposed new paragraph is, in effect, similar to a provision already appearing in clause 8 as to the furnishing of certificates by the Auditor-General for a State. There is some doubt as to the powers of the Parliament directly to impose an obligation on a State Auditor-General to furnish a report, but there does not appear to be any objection to including in the conditions of the grant to the State the requirement as to the furnishing of certificates. This amendment is really a recognition of the fact that we cannot give directions to the Auditor-General of a State, but we can make it a condition of the grant that the State shall furnish the necessary information. 
If the dates specified in the proposed new paragraph do not synchronize with the balancing dates of a State authority, an awkward situation may arise. The Auditor-General cannot very well report upon the finances of any given concern unless he has before him the complete figures for the financial year. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause further consequentially amended and, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 8 verbally and consequentially amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Deeds of Arrangement made under State acts). 
In the report of the conference at Melbourne to which the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  referred yesterday, it was proposed, I understand, that trustees - two to represent the States and one to represent, the Commonwealth - should be appointed for the administration of the fund. I see no reference in this measure to that proposal. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 10 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments, report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill completes the programme of financial assistance to the wheat industry in respect of the 1934^35 season. The major provision for relief to wheatfarmers is contained in the Wheat Bounty Act 1934, and the Wheat Growers Relief Act (No. 2) 1934, which were passed in December, following upon the recommendation of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry. The royal commission advised that immediate assistance should be given in respect of the 1934-35 harvest, and that an amount of £4,000,000 should be made available for disbursement in the following manner : - 
Firstly, by a bounty of 3d. a bushel on the marketable wheat delivered for sale; secondly, by advances to be made to the States to an amount of £1,926,750 for the purpose of enabling them to make payment of approximately 3s. an acre on wheat; and, thirdly, by making the  balance of the £4,000,000 available for the assistance of farmers who suffered special hardships in respect of the 1934-35 harvest. 
The Wheat Bounty Act 1934, provides for the payment of a bounty of 3d. a bushel on wheat sold or delivered for sale from the 1934-35 harvest. So far as it can be estimated at the present time, the expenditure under that act will be £1,500,000. The Wheat Growers Belief Act (No. 2) 1934 provides for the payment of grants to the States of such amounts as are necessary to' enable the States to make payments to wheat-growers at the rate of 3s. for each acre sown- with wheat for grain during the year 1934. It is anticipated that the expenditure under that act will not be less than £1,926,750. This bill deals with thebalance of £573,200 out of the £4,000,000. 
The reason why the legislation passed in December did not embrace the full amount was that some doubt then existed as to the proper manner in which the distribution should be made. The royal commission had indicated in its report that the matter would be further investigated with a view to ascertaining the needs of the farmers in the different States, and that a supplementary recommendation would be made at a later date. That recommendation is contained in the special report that, has already been laid on the table of the Senate for the information of honorable senators, and the Government is taking this, the first opportunity, to introduce legislation to compete the distribution of this £4,000,000. 
The royal commission advises that the most recent data obtainable indicates that the amount which will remain for the relief of cases of special adversity out of thetotal of £4,000,000 to be provided by the Commonwealth Government will be approximately £573,250, and recommends that it be distributedamongst the States as follows: - 

<graphic href="146332193504092_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

The reports of the royal commission refer briefly to the nature of the adverse conditions experienced in each State, and advise that the allocation recommended has not been determined by the application of arigid formula, but rather as a result of the careful weighing of the conditions existing in the several States. The commission has expressed the view that the applicationof a hard and fast rule would not have achieved an equitable distribution between the States, having regard to the numerous causes of special adversity which must, be fully recognized and provided for in any scheme of allocation. 
The Government is very anxious that those farmers who have suffered severely from the adverse conditions referred to by the commission shall be granted special assistance at the earliest possible date, and, accordingly, has brought down this bill immediately upon receiptof its report. The bill is to be regarded as bringing to completion the measures decided upon by the Government for financial assistance to wheat-growers in respect of last season. It prescribes the amounts that are to be granted to the several States in accordance with the recommendation of the commission, and specifies that the amount granted to each State shall be applied by it to the provision of relief to wheat-growers who satisfy the prescribed authority that they are in adverse financial circumstances, and that they have suffered serious loss by reason of either specially adverse seasonal conditions or extensive damage to their crops arising  from  the prevalence of pests or disease. Any amount applied by the State is to be paid direct to the wheat-grower. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator J.  V. MacDonald) adjourned. 
It is a wellknown principle of law, and is by no means new. 
And with the approval of successive governments, practically every one of which has submitted some amendment of the Immigration Act. 
Exceptions to the general legal principle that the onus of proof shall rest on the prosecution are not uncommon. The immigration laws are not the laws of any particular party or person ; they have been enacted with the consent and approval of every political party in Parliament, and almost every party has taken a hand in moulding the provisions of the act. No political party has ever opposed the provision which the honorable senator now criticizes. An amendment of the law is particularly necessary because in the past numerous foreigners have been smuggled ashore. Once they have landed and gone into hiding for a few days, and the ships by which they arrived have gone away, it is almost impossible to prove that they are immigrants, prohibited or otherwise. All that is known of them is that they are in Australia. Is there any hardship in saying to a man "All the facts are within your knowledge; you must estab- tish or set up a prima facie case that you are not in Australia in contravention of our laws ". 
Such a man has to establish, by his own evidence, that he is in Australia rightly. He will be called upon to give the name of the ship upon which he arrived. Is there any hardship in that? If a case were brought against a man who had been here for 30 or 40 years there might be some hardship involved in compelling him to establish his right to remain. But we are amending the act to deal with men who have been in this country but a short time. As I have said, the Government is merely closing up a gap which has been revealed in a section of the act which was thought by every party in Parliament to have operative force. 
Since then various governments have sought to tighten up the provisions of the act. A great deal of ingenuity ' is displayed in attempting to circumvent this legislation. That makes it all the more necessary for this Parliament to make the provision as drastic as may be necessary to carry out the policy of the country.  Mr. Justice  Rich, the Acting Chief Justice, in the judgment delivered in the High Court yesterday, said - 
The legislation has become, in the course of amending, most confused and confusing on many important points, and it well merits the attention of the legislature. In consequence of the confused state of this and other acts of Parliament, an unnecessary burden is placed on the court, whose duty it is to declare the law as it has been expressed without regard to speculation as to how it might have been expressed if fuller consideration had been given to the matter. 
It is customary to pay very careful regard  to  any observations or recommendations of the bench with regard to the law. Judges are very loath to express any opinions about the policy of the law, but are concerned that the law shall be intelligible not only to the bench, but also to the private practitioner. 
As has been mentioned, the Immigration Act hai been amended ten or twelve times since 1925. The officers of the Law Department have for some time been considering the complete recasting of the existing provisions of the act in order to make them a little clearer than they are at present. I hope that this bill will do what is immediately required. While the law exists in its present form  a  considerable influx of undesirable immigrants might take place. 
Debate (on motion of  Senator Daly)  adjourned. 
 Honorable senators on this side of the chamber intend to support this measure to amend the Wheat-growers Relief Act of 1934, under which certain moneys were made available to assist necessitous wheat-growers. In addition to the amounts previously granted, provision has now been made to make further grants to all the States on  such  a basis that those needing  the  most money will derive the greatest benefit. The allotment to the States which grew wheat for export would appear to be in proportion to the number  of  necessitous cases, which is the proper basis. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Additional assistance to States for cases of adversity). 
 There was a good deal of disappointment in Western Australia concerning the allotment  proposed  in the bill, because it was anticipated by the Wheat-growers Union and the Primary Producers Association in that State that, in view of the drought and rust which has affected the wheat crops, the allotment for Western Australia would be higher. The representatives of the Western Australian Wheat-growers Union telegraphed to the Government asking that the amount to be granted to that State be increased to £200,000, and the Minister for Lands, who expected that the minimum amount allotted would be £150,000, was disappointed to find that it had been fixed at £137,000. In view of the explanation of the Minister that the allocation is based on the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry, I doubt whether I would be more fortunate in moving an amendment to this bill than I was in endeavouring to amend the more important measure which the Senate has just passed. I protest against the quota allotted to Western Australia. 
 This measure is to some extent complementary to the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill, which we have just been considering, and which was to help those who may benefit by assistance. It was not to help those sufficiently well circumstanced to carry on unaided, but to aid wheat-growers on the border line, who with a certain amount of assistance may pull through. This bill covers more particularly those in adverse financial circumstances, as set out in sub-clauses 2 and 3 of this clause. I have stated previously that there is always an element of risk in dealing with necessitous cases, and I am certain that assistance so given does not, as a general rule, result satisfactorily to those concerned. A person in necessitous circumstances has to disclose his private affairs to officials, even though he may not receive help ; but the same objection does not exist to the same extent in respect of necessitous wheat-farmers, many of whom have already disclosed their private affairs to farmers' relief boards or similar bodies. The amounts to be allotted to the various States under this bill ha.ve already been discussed, and I understand that the Government intended to consider the representations made in the House of "Representatives before the bill was considered in the Senate. I have not analysed all the figures, but have made a comparison between the amounts to be allotted to Victoria and South Australia. Under this measure, Victoria is to receive  £192,000,  and South Australia  £127,000,  or roughly two-thirds of the amount to be received by Victoria. In the two States mentioned the average yield per acre, the area placed under crop, and the total production in bushels, are somewhat similar; but for the purpose of this grant the advantage should be on the side of South Australia. The average yield in bushels an acre over ten seasons, from  1922  to  1932,  has been - Victoria,  12.32,  and South Australia,  10.20.  According to the figures published in the Commonwealth  Year-Booh,  the total area under crop over a period of six years ended  1932-33  was - Victoria,  21,746,238  acres and South Australia  22,351,352  acres. The areas are within  3  per cent, of being the same. Over a period of six years ended  1932-33,  Victoria produced  242,005,588  bushels, and South Australia  199,631,441  bushels. The total production and the yield per acre in South Australia over that period was considerably less than in Victoria. On the other hand, the actual area under crop, as stated above, has been higher. These figures emphasize in every respect that South Australia has been less fortunate in the matter of productivity than Victoria. The area under crop in Victoria this year is  2,861,000  acres, while the estimated area in South Australia is  3,130.000  acres, and, according to a telegram despatched by the South Australian Statistician to the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page),  the estimated yield in South Australia is  29,000,000  bushels, although it may be considerably less. 
Disaster would be indicated by results. The disaster would be greater in the State having the smaller yield from a larger area under crop: From the figures I have quoted, it will be seen that there is not a great difference between the two States in the matter of area and production, but South Australia is being alloted only two-thirds of the amount to be allotted to Victoria. 
 Figures made available by the Farmers Assistance Board in South Australia, in respect of wheat-growers in straitened circumstances, show that an average of only  2.085  bushels an acre has been harvested from  1,060,000  acres, and that an average of  5  to  6  bushels has been obtained from  900,000  acres. The Minister for Agriculture in South Australia should by now have received the estimated production for the present season. In many cases the actual yield has been below the official forecast. At many country sidings this year, wheat deliveries were not within  50  per cent, or  60  per cent, of the amount received in the previous season. The average production from  1,060,000  acres, representing one-third of the total area under crop, was only  2.085  bushels, and the average yield from a further  900,000  acres was from  5  bushels to  6  bushels. Victoria would have to show figures worse than this to justify receiving  £192,000  as compared with  £127,000  allocated to South Australia. 
Yes. In some districts, crops were almost completely destroyed. On the west coast, notably in the vicinity of Kimba, Cowell, Mangalo, and down as far as Tumby Bay the farmers have reaped little or no harvest, and have cut very little for hay. Many of them had to send stock away for pad.turage. The clause provides that the money to be granted to a State shall be used for the relief of wheat-growers who can satisfy the prescribed authority that they have suffered serious loss and hardship by reason of specially adverse seasonal conditions or extensive damage caused to crops by pests or disease. Farmers in the Murray Valley districts of South Australia have had very low yields this year. Many growers in the north-eastern portion of that area have been obliged to purchase seed for next season or make arrangements to obtain it from the Farmers Assistance Board. If we assumle that Victoria and South Australia had to grant extra assistance to farmers in respect of 1,500,000 acres which have returned very low yields, South Australia with an allocation of £137,000 would be able to pay at the rate of ls. 8. 3d. an acre, whereas Victoria would be able to pay 2s. 6.6d. an acre, or lOd. an acre more than South Australia. It appears, from particulars available regarding averages and acreages, that the needs of the two States are about equal, and, this being so, the total- amount of £319,000 to be allocated to Victoria and South Australia should be apportioned on a basis more equitable to South Australia. Last year, when £3,000,000 was allocated to the States for distribution on an acreage basis, the States paid varying amounts to the farmers in need of assistance, but in some States they received ls. an acre more than was paid in others. In the distribution of this money, the Government should consider the actual yield this season. The allocation in the bill is distinctly unfair to South Australia. 
I realize that in South Australia there is a belief on the part of the farmers that, in allocating this money, the Government has not dealt as generously with that State as it should have done. Since the factors to be taken into consideration are so varied, honorable senators will, I hope, realize the impossibility of allocating any amount with mathematical justice. The Wheat Commission, in its report dated the 20th March, gives a summary of the considerations which weighed with it when dealing with the claims of the wheat-growing States. It. is admitted that the information then available to it was in the nature of estimates rather than exact figures, but the commission seems to have predicted the actual results with a good deal of accuracy. Referring to the position in South Australia the commission stated that there were indications of wonderful recovery in some districts and expressed the belief that the average yield per acre would be about normal in certain districts that had suffered earlier adverse seasonal conditions. I also remind honorable senators that, in arriving at its estimate, the commission had at its disposal information which is not in the possession of honorable senators themselves. 
I think it did. The commission stated that the allocation had not been determined as the result of a complex, rigid formula, but rather as the result of a careful weighing of all relevant factors. It further expressed the view that the application of a hard and fast rule would not have resulted in an equitable distribution of the money between the States, having regard to the numerous cases of adversity which must be fully recognized and provided for in any scheme of allocation.  Sir Herbert  Gepp, the  chairman  of the commission, added that the recommendation was approved by all the members of the commission: I therefore venture to suggest that the commission was more likely to arrive at rough justice - nothing more than that could be expected in the circumstances - than are honorable senators who have listened to what are, no doubt.. genuine cases of distress among their constituents, but nevertheless are stories told by those having a deep interest in the allocation of this money. 
Before the committee records its decision on the clause, it would be worth while considering whether or not the royal commission correctly estimated the actual yield this season, because the amount provided by the Government, £4,000,000, less £473,000 for necessitous cases, was recommended prior to the harvest returns being made available. 
The final estimate shows that in South Australia, at all events the total yield is not so high as it was last year. Last year the estimated yield was 33,000,000 bushels and the actual crop was 34,000,000 bushels. The estimate for this year was 29.000,000 bushels, but wheat merchants contend that  the actual yield will not be more than 56,000,000 bushels. I therefore contend that the additional hardship suffered by South. Australian farmers this year owing to adverse seasonal conditions should be taken into consideration in the apportionment of the money to be provided under this bill. It is unfair that the amount provided for that State should be only £127,000 as against £192,000 for Victoria. If it could be shown that cases of hardship among Victorian farmers were greater by 50 per cent, than in South Australia I should be prepared to Accept the allocation, but I feel sure that the actual figures would not disclose this position. The Government should withhold payment of this money until more accurate information is available concerning the yield in each State this year. 
Last night when we were discussing the Debt Adjustment Bill we were told that the more populous States would have to find the larger proportion of the money to be made available for the rehabilitation of primary industries, and that if the amount were distributed on a population basis, some of the wheat-producing States would receive much smaller amounts than were actually allocated to them. This is not altogether correct, because we have to take into consideration the fact that the smaller States do a large amount of trade with manufacturers in the eastern States. South Australia has a huge adverse trade balance with Victoria and New South Wales. It makes large purchases of textiles and machinery from Victoria, thus helping to maintain employment in Victorian factories. Why should we not participate on an equitable basis in any distribution for the assistance of the farmers when the measures of their distress in the two States are almost identical? We should view this matter from an Australian, not a parochial, angle. There should be equal distribution throughout the Commonwealth. I am pointing out that, as regards cases of hardship for which this bill makes provision, the position is very much worse in South Australia than in Victoria. I feel that the Government has not given due consideration to the amount of hardship suffered by farmers in South Australia owing to adverse seasonal conditions. 
I remind  Senator Badman  that the wheat harvest in Victoria this year has been very disappointing. The total yield was 28,000,000 bushels, as compared with recent averages of 40,000,000 bushels. In South Australia this season the yield was 29,000,000 bushels, compared with an average yield in recent years of 35,000,000 bushels; so relatively South Australian farmers are in a somewhat better position. Recently a shipload of  Victorian wheat was sold in London at 3d. a bushel less than has been paid for any other Australian wheat this year. That shows how seriously the rain which fell while harvesting operations were in progress affected the quality of the wheat. 
They got very little, and what wheat they did harvest was of inferior quality. Victoria has been hard hit and the allocation in the circumstances is, in my judgment, most reasonable. I congratulate those responsible for it for the way in which they have met conditions with which they personally were not familiar. I support the clause as it stands. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I wish to congratulate the Government on the introduction of this measure. It is ostensibly for the good of the farmers, and will help considerably to stabilize conditions, although the bankers ultimately will get the most of the money for which it provides. To the extent that it will relieve farmers of  pressing obligations we must be thankful for it. I am convinced, however, that whatever benefits may flow - from this kind of legislation will be of only a temporary character, and that a far more drastic alteration of conditions will have to be brought about before there can be anything like settled prosperity in the farming industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
[4.1 -  As we have given a promise to the Opposition that the order of the day for the resumption of the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Immigration Bill will not be called until after the dinner adjournment, I suggest,  Mr. President,  that the sitting be suspended till 8 o'clock. 
It undoubtedly has done so. 

 Sitting suspended from 4.20 to 8 p.m. 

 I, too, protest against the scanty consideration given to the views of the Opposition in regard to this measure. The personal liberty of the subject is something that is sacred, and I hope that the Acting Attorney-General  (Senator Brennan)  will later, if not now, give serious consideration to our representations regarding bail. Unless something is done in that direction, I foresee a further shaking of public confidence in our parliamentary institutions. I realize that the Government, is anxious to get its legislation passed in view of the approaching adjournment; but I think that the Minister should have given more consideration to our protests. It may be that in the House of Representatives the party to which T belong will be able to persuade the representative of the Acting Attorney-General to relax the rigorous nature of the provisions relating to bail. 
.- Et is somewhat astonishing to find such concern by honorable senators opposite for the people who will be affected by this amending legislation, seeing that those people come to Australia only to sow seeds of discord. Only a few days ago the press of Australia published an inaccurate report alleging that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  had stated that he was prepared to consider a proposal for the admission to Australia of British migrants. That report raised a storm of protest in both Houses of this Parliament. It was urged that such a policy would injure Australia. Yet the Opposition, which protested against our own kith and kin being permitted to enter this country, now objects to keeping out undesirable immigrants. Australia can do very well without such men as Kisch and Griffin, with their Marxian theories, which cannot be put into operation without detriment to this country. Australia is wise in endeavouring to keep out those persons who would come here only to stir up unrest. This country has managed very well fbr  100  years without the assistance of these imported gentlemen, and their strange doctrines. 
 I point out that, but for the amendment to section  4  of the principal act, there would be no provision at all for bail under section  5,  which for the first time creates a substantive offence. 
Previously, there was no penalty under section  5  ; now we have provided a penalty. In order to mitigate the rigorous nature of that provision, we have applied to it the provisions of section  7  a. T sympathize with the view. that a discretion should be left with the magistrate, hut I remind the Senate that our immigration laws have never so provided. At all times, bail has been rigid. In the United States of America prohibited immigrants are not allowed their freedom at all, but are kept in custody until their trial takes place. 
I make no apology for this bill. The Government has done the least that the High Court expected it to do. That tribunal made a point of the necessity for clearing up this law. It may be that the law will have to be reviewed still further, in which event the advisableness of vesting a discretion in the magistrate might well be considered. My own opinion is that the legislature has considered that point from time to time, only to conclude that the bail must be substantial. A further element of security is the necessity to obtain the approval of the Collector of Customs. 
I understand thatthe honorable senator's objection is to the severity of the bail. If anything in that direction is done, it should, I think, be by means of a differentiation between the various classes of cases. There are some persons whom it is almost impossible to detect or to hold. The Leader of the Senate could tell us of Instances in which it took months to lay hands on persons who had escaped from the clutches of the law. Legislation of this kind is difficult to administer; certain cases may deserve consideration, while others should be given no leniency at all. It may be that the bail is too large in some cases, but were it not for this amendment, there would have been no bail at all. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 Sitting suspended from 11.14 to 11.46 p.m. 

 I had an opportunity, during the dinner adjournment, to confer with my leader  (Senator Barnes),  and I do not propose to occupy any length of time in the discussion of the bill at this stage. It seems to me, from a study of the measure, naturally limited because of the short time available to us, that under the Immigration Act about fourteen reasons, together with a number of sub-reasons, may be advanced by the Government why a person should be prevented from landing in Australia. In certain instances, proofs are demanded of persons against whom the allegation is made that they do not come within the category of prohibited immigrants. The High Court apparently came to the conclusion, in the case of Griffin, that the Commonwealth had purported to base its case against him on section 5, but the offence, if any, was properly chargeable under section 7; the court held, therefore, that the Commonwealth could not take advantage of the averment or evidentiary provisions of flection 5. Following that decision, we are now asked to tighten up the provisions of section 5 by imposing a penalty for the commission of any offence mentioned in that section, and that, in addition, any person who may be charged under section 7 should be subjected to even stricter evidentiary provisions than those contained in section 5. I have no objection to the imposition of a penalty under section 5. Parliament, in its wisdom, has decided, and I think the party to which I have the honour to belong is in agreement, that certain people should not be permitted to land in Australia. If they commit a breach of the lawby landing, they must be prepared to accept the punishment provided. 
The first portion of the bill deals in the main with the punishment for particular offences; the second part seeks to widen the powers of the prosecution. In addition to preventing a man, on a specific charge, from landing in Australia, and imposing a penalty on him if he does land, we are now asked to- approve an amendment of the law to provide that any man found in Australia" may be brought before the court and charged with being a prohibited immigrant. This proposal is reminiscent of the thimble and pea trick. If the prosecution declares that he is under a certain thimble, and he is actually found there, he is adjudged guilty. If, however, when the thimble is lifted he is not found there, curiously enough, he is still adjudged guilty, and has to advance reasons why he was not under that particular thimble. 
In more recent times, Australia has seen fit to break away from a fundamental principle of British, jurisprudence, that a man is presumed to be innocent until his guilt is established. 
Always. Under the principle embodied in the proposed amendment, if the question at issue were a murder at Albury, and one or two persons alone knew the person who committed it, any man in the street might be brought before the court and required to prove that he was not the murderer. Difficulties of proof have led to a relaxation of the old-established principle to which I have alluded, and the tendency of modern legislation is to make the way easier for the prosecution. I am opposed to this tendency to follow the philosophy of Emerson who declared that every man is as lazy as he dares to be. I regard the personal liberty of the subject as something more sacrosanct than proprietary rights but, since I have been a member of this Parliament, whenever the High Court has given a decision the effect of which has been to prevent the Government from, say, levying a certain form of taxation, action has been taken by the legislature to override the decision of the High Court. This is what is happening in the Griffin case. Regardless of my personal opinion of Griffin and Kisch, I do not wish any man charged with being a prohibited immigrant to be required to establish his innocence. The Attorney-General will, I think, admit that, under this amendment of the act, if a doubt remains in the. mind of the magistrate, that doubt must be resolved in favour of the prosecution and not in favour of the defence. We should be extremely careful before we extend this principle in our legislation. I have no objection to the amendment of the act imposing a penalty under section 5, but I am definitely opposed to the amendment to section 7 in order to extend what I regard as a very iniquitous principle. 

 Senator RAE  (New South Wales)  1.8.11  j. - I am glad that I heard the speech just delivered by  Senator Daly.  I do not profess to be a lawyer, but it appears to me that this measure is panic legislation, and a vindictive attempt on the part of the Government to achieve its purpose. It is well known that the bill has been introduced because of a recent decision by the High Court with regard to Griffin, and also because of the earlier decision of that tribunal in the Kisch case. No crime was charged against either Griffin or Kisch. They were deemed to be pro hibited immigrants, simply because agents of this Government declared them to be so. What did Griffin do? He was invited by a perfectly legal organization, as a visiting delegate from New Zealand, to attend the anti-war congress in Melbourne in November last. I suppose the Commonwealth Government was acting in collusion with the Government of New Zealand; otherwise I do not know how its agents could have known that he was in Australia. He is a native of Ireland and has ' been in New Zealand from early childhood. He had never been out of New Zealand until he visited Australia towards the end of last year. Immediately he got off the boat he was given a dictation test in the Dutch language and because he failed he was charged with being a prohibited immigrant. The man who put the test to him confessed that he also could not have translated the sentence into English. Throughout the whole of the proceedings against these two men no definite charge was laid against them, and no public statement was made of the offences which they were supposed to have committed. They were simply described as prohibited immigrants. Both are men of good repute in the countries from which they come. Kisch, it is admitted, came into collision with the Nazis because he exposed the iniquities and the brutalities that were taking place under the Hitler regime in Germany. Whether he was charged with being a prohibited immigrant because he spoke offensively of the country to which his Majesty the King recently sent greetings I do not know; but the fact remains that no criminal charge was laid against either Kisch or Griffin. Kisch visited Australia as a delegate from the headquarters in Paris of the anti-war movement, and Griffin, as I have explained, was invited to attend a perfectly legal congress that was held in Melbourne. Both were stopped. Griffin was subjected to a test in Dutch. Like most of us, he had no knowledge of it, and, having failed in the test, was sent back to New Zealand. The Acting Attorney-General  (Senator Brennan),  in moving the second reading of this bill, said that Griffin subsequently came back in disguise. It is true that he did come back  shortly after his deportation to New Zealand, but his only disguise was a pair of hornrimmed spectacles. He walked ashore without hindrance. 
The fact that he had left his luggage behind was not discovered until later; consequently that cannot be the offence for which the authorities have been attempting ever since to gaol him.. The vindictive nature of this prosecution is shown by the fact that whereas persons charged with far more serious offences are granted bail on obtaining the requisite security - I have gone bail for alleged offenders more than once and know that the ownership of property of a certain value is sufficient for a bondsman - in this case a cash bail of £200 was demanded. Contrary to the expectations of the prosecution, the necessary bondsmen were found. An act of this kind can never be satisfactorily administered while a person proceeded against under it is in ignorance of the offence charged against him. tinder this act proceedings are conducted in secret. Without any publicity whatever a man of good repute, without any charge of criminality being alleged against him, may be deported to the country from which he comes. In Griffin's case the only offence was that he could not pass a test in Dutch. Kisch was prevented from landing at Fremantle and was detained by the ship's master. When an attempt was made to secure his release in Melbourne under a writ of  Habeas Corpus,  it was over-ruled by the Chief Justice of Victoria. Kisch was compelled to remain on the ship until he reached Sydney where another  application under the  Habeas Corpus  Act was successful and he was released. Immediately afterwards he was re-arrested, and his bondsmen were required to find a security of £200 in cash. 
Why should we manufacture criminals out of innocent men? Why should men be compelled to suffer penalties without having the elemental right of an open trial to determine their guilt or otherwise? Yet that is what this Government has done. In the most vindictive manner every possible attempt has been made to secure the conviction of these men.. The blundering incapacity of the Government's legal advisers, however, is such that, every step they took proved to&gt; be contrary to law. 
This man, who speaksten or twelve different European languages, was given a test in Gaelic. 
I think that is so. From beginning to end the Commonwealth Government simply rushed  to  oblige someone - Heaven knows who it was - by trying to deport a man of good character. I want to know why, if therewas anything against these men, a charge was not levelled against them and an&gt;. opportunity given them to be tried in&gt; open court. Instead of this, we had persecution, delay and enormous expense to the people. A question which I framed was asked in another place recently as to the amount which the Crownhad been required to pay in the  Kisch  case. The answer was that the costs amounted to £1,529. What has been expended on the somewhat lengthy proceedings in Griffin's case remains to be ascertained. The amount must be considerable since costs have been given against the Crown. 
This, in brief, is the true history of what has taken place. Obviously these proceedings are aimed at those who advocate principles with which the Government disagree. A statement was madethat Kisch had landed in England and had delivered some lectures there. In what language he delivered them. I do not know. At the time he knew but a few words of English, but during the voyage to Australia, and subsequently, heacquired a fuller knowledge of our language. The statement, however, wascirculated that Kisch, while in England, had not met with the favour of ' the British authorities and a hint was given to the Government of the Commonwealth that he was not a desirable person. Nodefinite charge was made against him. Both of these men - although they were in no way connected with, each other - ' came here to advocate international peace, and to encourage organizations to prevent war. They also desired to expose the growing danger of a fascist form of government being thrust upon the people of this country. Neither of those objectives can be said to be criminal nor, in the minds of decent people, objectionable. This Government, while it professes an anxiety to destroy subversive propaganda, allows- another body of purely Fascist origin, and professing Fascist principles, to form an alliance with it to enable it to win the last election. This body, known as the New Guard in New South Wales, and by other names in other States, has been actually favoured and assisted by the Government although it openly stated at one period in New South Wales that if a certain party were returned to power in that State it would prevent it by armed means, if necessary, from taking over the reins of authority. While it is not legal for private bodies to engage in drill, the New Guard in New South Wales openly boasted that its members were drilling regularly in various places. Yet, no attempt was made by the Government to punish these persons or to dissolve their organization. They have been allowed to develop and organize as they think fit. In the case of these two men who came here on a legitimate mission, and against whom no criminal charge can be sustained- 
SenatorRAE. - A statement was made by one Minister that certain allegations had been made against Kisch. The affidavit containing that statement, however, was withdrawn, showing that it was not soundly based and that the Crown was proceeding on mere rumour. Legislation which has been enacted from time to time during my short membership of this chamber has in several cases thrown' the onus of proof upon the accused. While we profess almost to worship the grand principles of British jurisprudence those principles are continually being violated by those who profess to uphold them. I protest against this class of legislation. The Acting Attorney-General has stated that it is extremely difficult for the pro secution to prove whether a man is a prohibited immigrant, whereas the. individual concerned knows exactly what his position is. The honorable senator also knows that it is not easy for the prosecution in many other cases to discover facts with which the man involved is familiar. It is extremely difficult sometimes to obtain the facts relating particularly to some of the most dreadful crimes that have been committed, but that does not absolve the powers that be from the necessity of proving their case if they elect to prosecute. They have to provide the necessary evidence to prove their case. 
This is probably the last occasion on which I shall speak in this chamber, and I offer my emphatic protest against the vindictive spirit which has been displayed by the Government in these cases. I protest also against the growing practice of attempting to place the onus of proof on the person accused. That principle has been embodied in several parts of the Crimes Act and in certain other measures. The whole history of this Government is one of an attempt to break down the democratic institutions that we profess to honour and observe and by every means to pave the way for Fascism to become eventually the policy of this country. 
I take it that when the original Immigration Act was passed at the inception of the Commonwealth, the object was to ensure that the Government should have the right to determine who should and who should not be admitted into this country. 
Exactly. The Acting Chief Justice, in giving judgment in this case, said, as reported in the press, that the principal act had been amended on ten or eleven different occasions and that the various amending acts had led to much confusion on very many important points. This, he said merited the attention of Parliament. I take it that we are attempting to-night to clarify the law. His Honour also said that this confusion threw a great  burden upon the court. The fights which have recently taken place between the Government representing the people of this country, and Herr Egon Kisch and  Mr. Griffin,  are fresh in our minds. We must all admit that in the first fight Herr Kisch won every round. He certainly won on points, even if he did not obtain a knock-out. Griffin not only won on points, but he also got away with the purse, for I take it that the loser - in this case the Commonwealth - has to find the money.  Senator Rae  said that Herr Kisch was prohibited from landing in Australia because he could not read Gaelic, and that  Mr. Griffin  was kept out because he could not read Dutch. Those were not the real reasons. Objection has been taken to the dictation test, but I remind the Senate that that means of keeping out immigrants is not peculiar to Australia. It is used in many other countries, particularly in the United States of America. It is open to any country to take any steps it thinks fit to keep out undesirable persons. 
I do not hold with treating any person unfairly, but I do say that the citizens of this country have an inalienable right to say who shall come here. Our immigration restriction laws were f ramed mainly to keep out coloured people, and it is essential that we should be prepared to defend our right to keep them on the statute-book when the challenge comes, as it will come some day. The thought that worries me more than anything else is that some day our bluff will be called. God help us if we are not ready. 
I do not suppose that many people in Australia had heard of Kisch and Griffin before they attempted to land in this country. Doubtless, the documents concerning them are confidential and secret in the main, and, although we shall not know the reasons which actuated the Government, I am convinced that there were good reasons for prohibiting their entry into this country. Unquestionably, there was bungling. Before he came to Australia Egon Kisch was a non-entity. No one in Australia had heard of him. But the proceedings against him gave him a tremendous advertisement, and put him on a pedestal. He was referred to as " the eminent novelist," the " great writer," the " wonderful author " by people who probably had never previously heard of him or his books. Apparently, the whole act has been loosely drafted, and if this bill will tighten it, and make it more effective, I shall support it, for it is high time that the Government of this country had an unchallengable right to say who shall enter Australia, and who shall be kept out. For that reason I support the bill. 
.- [ regret my unavoidable absence from the chamber this afternoon when the Minister explained the bill. It has been introduced in consequence of a recent High Court decision. A man named Griffin was charged under section 7 of the Immigration Restriction Act. with being a prohibited immigrant. The person who prosecuted on behalf of the Commonwealth said that Griffin was charged under that section, but he produced no evidence because be contended that Griffin must prove, under subsection 3 of section 5 of the act, that he was not a prohibited immigrant. The magistrate agreed with that view, and convicted Griffin ; but on appeal the High Court, unanimously held that the prosecutor and the magistrate in the lower court were wrong, that sub-section 3 of section 5 had no application to the case, and that, as there was no evidence against Griffin, the conviction must be upset. In so deciding the High Court followed a decision given in 1926 in the case of  Williamson v. Ah On,  which is reported in 39 O.L.R. page 95. The High Court pointed out that the language of the act was so confused that it should be considered by Parliament. One of the difficulties of the act is that section 5 provides no penalty or power of deportation. The bil] before us proposes to remedy that defect by amending section 5, and to that extent we on this side agree with it. That section deals with persons who have entered the Commonwealth by evading its officers, by landing at points where there were no officers, by presenting false credentials, by making false statements, or by refusing to leave Australia after having been  admitted for some temporary purpose. With such persons there can be no sympathy. Nor can objection be taken to those provisions which apply to an immigrant who, within five years after his landing, fails to pass a dictation test. If the bill stopped there, we would not object to it; but, unfortunately, it proposes to go further, by amending section 7 to provide that the burden of proof shall rest with the defendant. He may be a perfectly honest man, and a European ; but if he is charged with being a prohibited immigrant he will, under this legislation, have to prove that he is not. Although it is contrary to all our traditional ideas of justice to make an accused person prove his innocence, this bill provides that he must do so. Moreover, the defendant will not be told the Crown's reason for' saying that he is a prohibited immigrant. Section 3 of the act contains fifteen paragraphs, each of which has a number of sub-heading3, setting out what constitutes a prohibited immigrant. This legislation will require the defendant to show that he does not come under any of those headings. Under section 5 of the act a dishonest immigrant is given notice of the charge against him, but the honest immigrant is not treated so well under section 7. The evil principle of compelling a man to prove his innocence is aggravated by the refusal to tell him the nature of the charge. The Opposition will not resist the second reading of the bill, but in committee it will endeavour to defeat paragraph  b  of clause 3. 
The original Immigration Restriction Act was the outcome of a desire to avoid the difficulties experienced in other countries because of unrestricted immigration. That legislation prohibited the entrance to this country of persons who our fathers thought should not mix freely with the white people of this country. There were various reasons for regarding would-be immigrants . as undesirable. It was thought that persons might enter Australia and accept such low wages and unsatisfactory conditions as would make it impossible to maintain for Australians a decent standard of living. Our fathers desired to keep Australia clean and white, and we, their sons, are actuated by the same motives. From time to time weak spot.3 in that legislation have become manifest, and on each occasion an attempt has been made to strengthen it. Consequently, there is some confusion regarding it. There has never been any attempt to consolidate the various measures. The immediate reason for this amending legislation is the unfortunate experience of the Commonwealth in attempting to keep out of this country two men - Herr Egon Kisch and  Mr. Griffin.  I have seen both of these men. They addressed a conference over which I presided recently. Egon Kisch appeared to me to be a most amiable old chap, the embodiment of benevolence, whilst  Mr. Griffin  did not impress me as a particularly dangerous individual. I cannot understand why the Government should hav.e made itself look so ridiculous in the eyes of the world by taking so much notice of those two men. They could not have done much harm, because most of the people of this country believe in the right- of free speech. It is well known that in Britain a bodyguard to protect even a political refugee from another country is provided by the Government. That is done in accordance with British conceptions of justice, and our forefathers in this country had the same regard for liberty of speech. I stand behind that principle to-day. Why did the Government specially concern itself about two perfectly harmless people who had been invited to this country by responsible Australians to address a conference? An honorable senator has said that great publicity was given to two nonentities by the action of the Government. It is possible that the people who invited these gentlemen here were very much better informed regarding them than was the honorable senator. They may have read some of the works published by Kisch. I have not done so. but neither have I read the Koran, which embodies the religon  of millions of people. If Kisch was so obscure a person as has been alleged, why should this Government make such a tremendous fuss about his entry into this country? Yet the Government set the hounds of the law against him. 
As a matter of fact, Peter Lalor had to flee for his life. But that is only one of the wrongs which this country has inflicted upon inoffensive persons. The only result of the persecution of Kisch was to bring him prominently under the notice of the people. As I have already said, from my personal contact with Kisch, I would judge him to be a most harmless person. Surely there was no justification for the Government scaring the people of this country by making a bogy of a European tourist. I would not permit the entry of any undesirable immigrants to this country.  If Asiatics were landing in Australia, menacing the health or the economic standards of our people, I would support a provision to stop their entry, either by the application of the language test or by some other means. Great organizations have been set up in the world for the purpose of smuggling people into countries where they are denied admittance, and I am sure that there is such an organization or a branch of it operating in Australia. We read in the press day after day that the Government is being advised to police our northern coasts to prevent Asiatics from poaching in territorial waters, thus committing an offence against our nation. We are frequently told that we should place fast gunboats on the northern coast to prevent such practices. It is possible for numbers of Chinese to be landed at lonely parts on the coast and brought down to Sydney or Melbourne to work in competition with Australian workmen. The Government cannot be blamed for making provision to protect this country against the admission of such people. But the provision for the amendment of section 7 of the Immigration Act is too drastic. Possibly by the time the bill has run the gauntlet of both Houses of Parliament it will have been amended in such a way as to safeguard the interests of the nation while giving satisfaction to all parties. I cannot imagine a matter so vital to the welfare of Australia being made a party question. It would appear that intellectual leaders from abroad, who are invited to this country by reputable and intelligent citizens, may be prevented from landing by politicians who are opposed to democratic thought. Much of the literature of the world is debarred from entering Australia. I resent very much being prevented from reading books written by eminent authors in other countries. This Government is responsible for placing an embargo on the thoughts of distinguished writers. Is it not possible that when these authors find that their books are denied entry through the customs of this country, they may decide to come in person to Australia to tell the people what is in their books. Only recently a book written by Aldous Huxley, a great Englishman, was banned by the censor. Yet that book is on the shelves of the Parliamentary Library, unless the customs officers have stolen it. How would Huxley fare if he came to Australia? Would he be treated as Kisch and Griffin were treated? Would this Government put all the machinery of the Immigration Act into operation in an endeavour to prevent him from landing and send him back to his own country? 
.- I listened very attentively to the outburst of  Senator Barnes,  and I was surprised at his limited vision in discussing this matter. The Government would be wanting in its duty to the Australian people if, after having found that serious flaws exist in the Immigration Act, it did not take early steps to amend it by introducing a bill to implement the intention of the law as originally framed. 
It was intended to keep out people who might become a menace to Australia. The greater part of  Senator Barnes'  remarksconcerned the maintenance of the White Australia policy. But graver danger might arise to the people of Australia from the admission of people with white skins who are desirous of assisting certain persons already here to break down all the institutions that we hold, dear, thanfrom the admission of 20 or 30 coloured people who come here to work. We must take a common-sense view of this matter. No Australian government, irrespective of its shade of politics, would take action to put this law into operation without good cause. I do not know what communications the Government may have received in regard to Kisch and Griffin, hut I am confident that it obtained information sufficient to justify it in using to the fullest extent the provisions of the law to prevent them from landing in this country. 

 Senator Rae.The Government's blundering was equal to its venom ! 
There was no vindictiveness in the matter. The honorable senator is not justified in saying that the Government, out of mere vindictiveness, used its powers under the act against these two men. Most people are judged by the company they keep. Who were the men who were most prominent in protesting against the Government's refusal to allow Kisch and Griffin to land? Who organized the big meeting at the stadium in Melbourne. 
Yes. 
The principal speakers were those closely associated with the Communist party, the members of which are pledged to support the destruction of everything that we hold dear. 
Leading men in the Communist movement were the most prominent speakers. 
To obtain first hand information. 
The honorable senator should display more intelligence in discussing a subject of this nature. We have to judge men by the company they keep, and at the gathering held at the Melbourne stadium one of the principal speakers was a leading Communist. Another Communist who has twice been defeated at a parliamentary election suggested that the Russian system of government is much better than the one under which we are living. Egon Kisch and Gerald Griffin were evidently associated with such men. 
No, 'but I contend that the Government is justified in amending the law so that any person who seeks to weaken constitutional government, and bring about general disorder in a peaceful community, should not be allowed to land in Australia. 
It is to prohibit the entrance of undesirable immigrants. 
The law is clear enough to those who wish to understand it. The principal act was passed many years ago, but, from time to time, it has been amended in ways which experience ha3 proved to be necessary. Incidents have occurred during recent years that prove that the present law is powerless to keep undesirable persons out of Australia. The law in relation to coloured races is sufficiently watertight, but in other respects it has proved ineffective. From time to time we hear a good deal about freedom of speech, but the members of the organization with which honorable senators opposite are associated do not favour that principle. 
The organization to which the honorable member belongs. I know of a man who was expelled from the party, although the only charge that could be laid was that he expressed himself freely. In view of that incident it was amazing to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  speak so vehemently concerning freedom of speech as a heritage of the British people which should be preserved. Would honorable senators opposite suggest that a man who incited others to injure a. policeman on duty should not pay the penalty? Freedom of speech is not permissible in every instance. 
I understand that the gathering held at the stadium was to raise funds to defend Kisch. Sufficient was said at that meeting to convince me that the Government's action was fully warranted. I know that the Acting Attorney-General would not invoke the law unless such action was fully justified. I support the second reading of the bill and trust that it will be sufficiently embracing to prevent undesirable persons from entering Australia. 
Laymen on this side of the chamber are at somewhat of a disadvantage in discussing this measure, particularly as we have not had time to study it fully or* to compare it with the principal act. Moreover, we should have been supplied with copies of the judgment delivered in the High Court. Honorable senators opposite seem to have become panic stricken because Egon Kisch and Gerald Griffin have spent some time in this country. I hold no brief for either of these two persons, but I have read some of their speeches and I was in the court on one occasion when Kisch was on trial. I do not think that he is physically deficient, and so far as I could see he appeared mentally alert. 
I have heard a good deal of humbug in this chamber and the remarks of  Senator Payne,  for instance, were in that category and would do neither good nor harm. 
He may be one of the most loyal men in the world. It takes men of high intelligence to be loyal to their principles. From what I have read and heard of Kisch I believe that he is a strong advocate of universal peace and that he caine to Australia to preach that doctrine. 
I do not know whether the honorable senator can read what is in the mind of Kisch. Many persons who have heard the speeches of Kisch and Griffin have told me that they came to Australia to preach universal peace. If they were preaching a peaceful doctrine they were not acting contrary to the law. If they advocated violence or the overthrow of constitutional government by force they should be deported. There appears to be something sinister behind all this agitation. The present policy is contrary to the ideals of liberty in the old country from which many of us came. I have suffered close confinement in one of  His  Majesty's gaols because I had the audacity to speak as I thought. I believe in free speech but I am opposed to license. If a representative of Hitler, Mussolini, or that American dictator, Roosevelt, came to Australia to advocate the doctrines which they support no action would be taken against them, but because Kisch and Griffin advocated something contrary to the policy supported by this Government they have been treated as undesirables. The most advanced Nazi or Fascist would not have been interfered with by the present occupants of the treasury bench.. 
Yes, but Kisch and Griffin, who preached the doctrine of universal peace, were treated as criminals. A few days ago I read a book entitled  The Bloodless Pogrom,  by  Seibler  which deals in detail with the persecution of the Jews in Germany. It is stated in that book that many authors of repute were driven from that country because they had Jewish, blood in their veins. Included in the authors mentioned is Egon Kisch whose name some honorable senator said they had never heard before he came to Australia. They must not think that a man is of no importance merely because they have not heard of him. 
Honorable senators on this side have not had an opportunity to read the judgment of the High Court and study the bill in relation to the act. I wish it to be clearly understood that we are entirely opposed to the entry into Australia of any man or woman of criminal associations or tendencies. Likewise, we are opposed to the admission of any person suffering from disease or likely to spread disease. But being firm believers in liberty of speech and freedom of conscience we are absolutely opposed to any attempt by this or any other government, to prevent the landing of any person of good repute who, while in Australia, is prepared to abide by its laws. "We fear that if this amendment of the act is agreed to it may be used in such a way as to press with undue severity upon persons who wish to come to Australia, and whose only offence is that they hold views contrary to the political principles of the Government. Ministerialists may say that the Government should have the right to prevent such people from coming to Australia. I consider it is wrong that any biassed government or any biassed Minister should have this power. We on this side believe that there should be no bar to the entry of persons of good repute, but we say that immediately any person who, by speech or action, advocates violence in opposition to the law, he should be and can be dealt with under the existing legislation. 
Why should the Government and its supporters . be afraid of such men as Kisch and Griffin ? But for the publicity which  was given to these two men, they would have come to Australia on their mission, would have made brief appearances on a number of platforms of certain associations, and then would have passed from our shores without very many people knowing that they had been here. Simply because the Government, for political reasons, objected to their presence, Government agents got busy and sought to have them ejected. The only effect of this activity on the part of the Government was to make Australia look ridiculous in the eyes of the world. 
I have had placed in my hands a copy of the Immigration Act, and although I have not had an opportunity to study it closely, I am not convinced that the amendments now proposed are necessary to prevent the entry into Australia of undesirable persons. I shall be glad, therefore, if the Acting AttorneyGeneral will tell me if these amendments are essential. We on this side support the White Australia principle, not because we have any bitterness or hatred against 
Chinese, Japanese or other coloured races, but because we believe that if they were allowed to enter they would endanger our industrial and living standards. It has been suggested that if this amendment is not passed, hordes of Chinese, Japanese and other coloured aliens will flood this country. We believe that the existing law is strong enough to keep out those who, in our opinion, would be a menace to a White Australia. It has been proved good enough for many years and I am certain that we should not have heard of this proposal to amend it but for the Kisch and Griffin incidents. 
W - Will  Senator Brennan  state definitely whether this amendment of the law is necessary in order to keep out Chinese and Japanese immigrants ? 
I am aware that the recent High Court judgment has indicated what might be regarded as certain flaws in the law; but we should not be expected topass this legislation before we have an opportunity to read that judgment. All we know now is that the Government is in a terrible hurry to get this bill through. 
That, I understand, has been the practice for years. 
I know that Ministers and their supporters will say that the recent judgment of the High Court has entirely altered the position. Section 5 of the act, which is to be amended by clause 2 of this bill, reads -  (1.) Any immigrant who evades an officer or who enters the Commonwealth at any . place where no officer is stationed .... m'ay if at any time thereafter he is found within the Commonwealth be required to pass the dictation test, and shall if he fails to do so be deemed to be a prohibited immigrant offending against this act. 
Will the Acting Attorney-'General say that that provision is not sufficient to deal with Asiatics or other aliens who may have evaded the authorities and entered Australia ? 
We are getting away from the clear-cut issue of whether an Asiatic could not be deported from this country if this amendment of the principal act were not made. We are prepared to support the first part of the bill, which provides in clause 2 that - 
Section five of the principal act is amended by adding at the' end thereof the following sub-section :  - "(6. ) Any person who is, by virtue of this section, deemed to be a prohibited immigrant offending against this act shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for six months, and, in addition to or substitution for such imprisonment, deportation from the Commonwealth pursuant to an order made in that behalf by the Minister." 
That provision cuts the ground from under the feet of the Attorney-General when he says there is no penalty attaching to the offence with which I have been dealing. I have put my point of view as a layman, but owing to the fact that the bill was only introduced this morning, I and others on this side have been unable to go deeply into the question. I hope that the Acting Attorney-General, when he replies, will set my fears at rest, and show clearly whether it is not possible under the act as it stands, and without the provisions of the second part of this bill, to do all that is necessary by the exclusion of undesirable immigrants to maintain the policy of a White Australia. 
I understood the Acting Attorney-General  (Senator Brennan)  to say, in his speech on the second reading that the aim of this amending bill was to fill a gap in the principal act which endangered the White Australia policy and which had been discovered as the result of a recent High Court judgment. It was not aimed at Griffin or others similar to him. I was somewhat pacified by that announcement because the Opposition is most anxious that the policy of a White Australia should be maintained. The action taken iu the  Kisch  and  Griffin  cases, however, illustrates what might be done under this proposed law by a Government which desired to keep out of the country persons with whose political views it disagreed. If this bill were designed only to deal with Asiatic immigration, we should not have much to say concerning it. But what guarantee have we that the object which the Government has in view is not to shut out Europeans who desire to come here and to exercise freedom of speech? I understood from what the Acting Attorney-General said in his secondreading speech that the intention of this measure is not to enable the Government to make an example of future Kischs or Griffins who may seek to enter the Commonwealth. 
Quite so. I object to any legislation that would prevent the exercise of freedom of speech in this country by distinguished European visitors. 
Let me put the same question to the honorable senator. 
-. V. MacDONALD.- I should say that neither Kisch nor Griffin is an undesirable immigrant. Departmental officers are not always the judges. In political cases the Federal AttorneyGeneral at the time, possibly after receiving biased reports from overseas, would have the final decision in the matter. I am quite ready to believe that  Mr. Kisch,  whom I have not heard or seen, is a distinguished author in his own country. We have read that he is the author of many works and a well known journalist, and as such he should be allowed to come here and state his case in regard to world politics and their bearing on Australia. If Griffin's entry into Australia had not been objected to, if he had been allowed to land quietly and to address anti-war meetings, he would have secured but little publicity and six months after he had left the country his name probably would have been forgotten. If the Acting Attorney-General will give us an assurance that this legislation is not aimed at dealing with the Kischs and Griffins who in the future may come here, I think we shall be satisfied. 
 I am always open to conviction, and am not prepared to accuse our opponents opposite of the enormities of which some people say they are guilty. But I certainlyobject to the onus of proof being cast on a defendant, as provided for in this measure. It is a principle of British justice that the onus is upon the prosecution to prove the guilt of the person charged. Under this law, however, the onus of proving his innocence will rest upon a defendant. Two years ago an amendment of the Commonwealth Arbitration Act was before the Senate which sought to create an offence and make the provisions of the bill retrospective. I fear that in this bill there may be something hidden of which senators on this side of the House cannot approve. 
 The honorable senator who has resumed his seat, and also  Senator Brown,  who preceded him, apologized for the two men whose names have been freely mentioned during this debate, and whom the Government considered to be undesirable immigrants. Both honorable senators admitted that there should be some authority to determine whether or not such persons are desirable. If an immigrant is determined by a competent authority to be an undesirable person to enter this country, he certainly ought not to be allowed to land. Would any honorable senator seriously suggest that this or any other government would take action to prevent the entry into this country of a man merely because his political views disagreed with their own. 
No government would be so influenced. The Government of the day, no matter to what party it belongs, must be guided to a great extent in regard to the character of the immigrant by the advice of its officers. If officers of the Intelligence Department reported that an undesirable person had taken passage to or even from Australia, the Government of the day would have to act on the information so supplied. It is absurd to suggest that any government would be influenced by political considerations in administering this law. I do not think that either  Senator J.  V. MacDonald or  Senator Brown  believe anything of the kind. 
The position has been clearly explained by the Acting Attorney-General. He has pointed out that our immigration law served its purpose well until a serious flaw in it was disclosed by a judgment of the High Court, which was delivered yesterday. The court drew the attention of the public and the Parliament to the fact that the law as it stands is confusing and uncertain. The Government is now by this bill seeking so to amend the principal act as to make clear what was always believed by government after government to be its intention. Honorable senators opposite from time to time have supported amendments of the act. 
There is no justification for that statement. It is utterly absurd to suggest that the recent prosecutions were vindictive or that this or any other government would take proceedings under the Immigration Act on other than proper grounds. 
 in reply  - I shall endeavour to reply to some of the observations made during this debate. In his opening remarks,  Senator Daly  offered objection to the fact that the Government sought to set aside a High Court judgment. Probably the honorable senator did not use those words, but he said that the Government had rendered itself censurable because it took legislative action to overrule a High Court judgment. I cannot understand his criticism, for the honorable senator must know it is a common proceeding in every English-speaking country, when the courts have come to a decision which is contrary to what the legislature intended, for steps to be taken to amend the legislation so that it will more clearly express what the legislature believed was the law already. As he looks through his acts of Parliament the honorable senator will frequently find the name of some case, which indicates that the legislature has noted the decision in that case, and has altered the law accordingly. 

 Senator Rae describes this as panic legislation. It is not panic legislation, except in the sense that the decision of the High Court, which upset what the legislature believed to have been the law for nearly 30 years, was delivered on the eve of the adjournment of Parliament for several months. It is true that this legislation has been conceived in a hurry, and is being passed in a hurry, but only because of the impending adjournment of Parliament. To that extent, it is urgent, but not panic, legislation. 
The honorable senator and others laid stress on the fact that this legislation alters the usual procedure in regard to the onus of proof. I admit that it is the general rule in the criminal law courts for the onus to rest on the Crown; the Crown, having made a charge, is under the obligation to prove it But it is by no means a rare thing for that onus to be reversed. In particular cases, and in particular types of cases, it is common for the onus to be cast upon the defendant. 
The honorable senator's suggestion was that, in this legislation, the Government was departing from an established principle. That is not so; the Government is following a well-established principle, that if certain matters are peculiarly within the knowledge of a defendant, and the plaintiff has no opportunity of knowing of them, the defendant may be called upon either to prove his innocence or to disprove the charge laid against him. Certain persons are prohibited immigrants; they are not allowed to remain in this country except under prescribed conditions. In most instances, prohibited immigrants are allowed to enter this country only by permit. But let us assume that some foreigner has escaped from a vessel, that he cannot speak our language, and knows nothing about our institutions. As the law stands at present, it would be necessary for the prosecutor to prove when and how he arrived in this country. Or let us take the illustration which I mentioned this afternoon. The prosecution may know nothing about the man, and be incapable of proving anything about him ; but there may be strong reasons for believing that he entered this country illicitly. 
If he is in the country illicitly, and knows that he has no right to be here, is any great harm done, or is our sense of justice revolted, by asking him to go into the witness box and give the name of the vessel by which he arrived, and explain his reasons for believing that he has a right to be here? "Would that shock our sense of fair play? 
I am assuming that the man has been arrested and charged with being a prohibited immigrant. Is there anything that revolts our sense of justice if he is required to show that he is rightfully within the Commonwealth  i 
The honorable senator must either accept these proposals, or make it possible for numbers of Asiatics, who can successfully pit their wits against the wits of the authorities, to enter this country and remain here. 

 Senator. Brown desires to know whether this legislation is necessary. 
The Government believes that, as the law stands at present, there might be a serious influx of undesirable persons, who may or may not be of the coloured races. I do not want to draw the colour line in this discussion. This legislation is directed against undesirable immigrants, whatever their colour; but since the honorable senator has mentioned the coloured races, I can tell him that there are facilities for coloured people to enter Australia which are not enjoyed by the European races. "Without an alteration of the existing legislation, there might be some risk of an influx of undesirable persons. As honorable senators know, there are in existence organizations - powerful organizations until a few years ago - which are engaged in smuggling aliens into Australia. In the past, these organizations have succeeded in bringing coloured people into Australia. They would know the decision of the High Court, and would probably exaggerate its importance from their point of view. That is one of the reasons why there is danger of an influx of coloured persons. 
point out also to  Senator Brown  that no punishment was provided under section 5 of the principal act, although it was provided for under section 7. The bill provides a penalty under section 5. 
In future, the acts mentioned in section 5 will be offences. That was not set out in the original act. In regard to section 7, the Government proposes that the averment sections - those- dealing with the onus of proof - shall apply to it. 

 Senator J. V. MacDonald also asked if I could give guarantees as to the extent to which the act would be used.  Senator Rae  has supplied the answer. The Government intends to use the law in the future as it has been used in the past. In my second-reading speech, I said that this law has not been designed in order to catch  Mr. Griffin.  Obviously, it has nothing to do with Herr Egon Kisch, who has left Australia. It is extremely unlikely that further proceedings will be taken against  Mr. Griffin  so long as he conducts himself properly. This bill was introduced, not to deal with him, but to avert the danger of  an  influx of undesirable immigrants. The Government gives no undertaking as to the classes of persons which will not be admitted to Australia. 
I think so. I do not know of any case in which that opportunity has been denied to any person in an Australian court. I hope that I have met the scruples of honorable senators and that they will consent to the speedy passage of the bill through its. remaining stages. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Immigrants evading the officers or found within the Commonwealth) . 
I do. not intend to support this clause. The Acting Attorney-General  (Senator Brennan)  has quite rightly stated that, if the act is amended as proposed, the Government intends to put it into force immediately. But there is no imminent danger of an influx of aliens, for the simple reasons that large numbers of coloured races have already been put to the dictation test, and refused entry. The very fact that men are deported shows that they have little opportunity to use the law against those who deport them. The deportees are, usually, people without means. Even if one of them had the means, the opportunity, and the intelligence to defend himself successfully his victory would not free others. There is no urgent need for this provision. The whole Immigration Act is most complex, and an alteration of this kind should not be sprung upon us without our having an opportunity to study the principal act and the effect of the proposed amendment. For that reason I intend to oppose this clause.  Senator Herbert  Hays has said that no government would take action against an immigrant on its own initiative, but would act on the advice of public officials. I do not pretend to understand how these things are done, but action may be taken against a man simply because he holds views which are objectionable to the political party in power. It could not be said that any government acted in a biased manner if it sent back to the country from which he came a new arrival with a criminal record; but proceedings against an individual, because of his advocacy of certain views which may be distasteful to the Government, is in an entirely different category. Consider the case of the men who- have been mentioned in the debate to-night. They have been put to great pain, trouble, worry and expense as a result of the action taken against them. The case of one of these men was protracted for a period of more than six months, during which time the Crown, as well as the individual, was put to considerable expense. There should be some means by which we can get prompt justice in cases where objection is raised against a person simply because he holds views to which the Government is opposed, and which the Government believes might be ultimately dangerous. For political purposes the Government prosecuted Kisch and Griffin to the utmost limit of the law. Whilst Ministers may have acted on bad legal advice, they showed lack of discernment in not discovering their error sooner. 
Would a person deemed to be a prohibited immigrant for political reasons have to suffer the penalty of six months imprisonment? Such a man may be of high moral repute and in all respects a fit and proper person to be admitted to this country, except that he held views opposed to those of the Government. 
Would the Acting Attorney-General accept an 'amendment to that effect? 
No, I could not accept such an amendment because it is not necessary. As the Leader of the Senate has interjected, in almost all of these cases the desire is not to punish the person, but to ensure that he does not remain in Australia. But the man must be legally detained and, unless there is a provision to justify his detention, application will be made to the courts for his liberation. Statutory authority for the detention of a prohibited immigrant is therefore necessary. Although a term of imprisonment is prescribed, a prohibited immigrant is imprisoned only until he can be deported. 
Such  a  term would not meet the case of a man coming from some remote country to which ships do not frequently go from Australia. The intention of the act is to hold the man only until he can be deported and no harm is done to him if the term be made three, six, or twelve months, because he may be liberated on bail, the amount of which is entirely in the discretion of the court. The act would be useless if no term of imprisonment were imposed. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Unlawful entry of prohibited immigrants). 
This clause requires some consideration. The Government is imposing conditions that for many will be absolutely impossible of fulfilment. Many of the people affected by this clause will be strangers without relatives or friends in this country, but they will be asked to find sureties. It might not be difficult for a man in good financial circumstances to provide surety but most of the men likely to be affected by this clause could not possibly do so, and therefore would be sent to gaol. In the cases of Kisch and Griffin bail was fixed by the court at £200 cash. It is difficult to understand why bail should have been fixed at so high a sum when in more serious cases bail is frequently fixed at a much lower figure. Obviously this is a vindictive attempt on the part of the Government to provide for the imprisonment of men who cannot find cash sureties. In some instances, the members of organizations endeavour to raise the necessary funds, but as they are usually in poor circumstances, that can be done only by great sacrifice on their part. If the Government has any sense of justice or fairness, it will amend this provision in the direction I have suggested. Most of those who are likely to come under it will be unable to find sureties. 
I am not thinking of those who may attempt to come in that way, but of well-known persons who came in openly and whom the Government attempted to smuggle out. 
When charged with this offence, the men whom I have mentioned were each compelled to find £200, and when they appealed they had to raise a similar amount. 
Sureties were offered and were refused. They were told that they must produce the cash. While Griffin was in custody awaiting bail, he was told that if the money was not forthcoming by 5 o'clock he would be sent to the Long Bay Gaol. I believe that he was sent there, and- was not released until the following day. 
I agree with  Senator Rae  that it is unreasonable to impose such unnecessarily hard conditions on persons many of whom have not committed any breach of the law. The legislation contained in the principal act should be separated so that one portion would deal with aliens and the other with those described as undesirable, and who may be Europeans with political views which conflict with those of the great majority of people. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  rather shrewdly, I suggest, avoided the main point which  Senator Rae  had in mind by interjecting that a man had offered £20 to be smuggled into Australia, but that would be offered by the representative of an alien organization. Europeans with political views such as those I have mentioned may be pounced upon by departmental officers acting under instructions from the Attorney-General who has received from the other side of the world, a report which he may not have had time to peruse; or he may have become too much impressed by the views of others. These persons may be arrested, and if they wish to keep out of gaol they are expected to provide  a  surety of £100 or even £200. Surely that is unreasonable. I trust that the Government will give further consideration to the matter in the interests of those who have no intention of contravening the  law. 
 I understood the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to say, by interjection, that the object of this provision is to prevent certain persons from being smuggled into this country, and that, in one instance, £20 had been offered by a man who wished to be smuggled in. 
I understood that the Leader of the Senate was referring to persons who had not been convicted. 
Senaltor DALY. - Under the amending measure, every man must establish his innocence where previously, in many cases, the Government had to prove his guilt. It seems unfair to impose upon a person such heavy responsibility in the matter of 'bail. Surely this can be left to the discretion of the magistrate. The tendency of legal societies in Australia is to make it easy for litigants in necessitous circumstances to obtain legal advice. In South Australia the Law Society places at the disposal of unfinancial litigants the services of an advocate. I am aware that the provision dealing with bail is already the law, but this bill gives me an opportunity to suggest that as it is not so easy to-day as it was in 1925 for any person to find. £100, we should leave the amount of bail to be determined by the magistrate. In 1925 a large number of farmers in South Australia would have had no difficulty in obtaining £100 in cash if they had been charged under the Immigration Act with being prohibited immigrants. Owing to the depression, their position to-day is entirely different. In the circumstances the Government should not insist upon the high amount of bail stipulated in the act. The Acting Attorney-General  (Senator Brennan)  and  Senator McLachlan  have, I am sure, as I have on many occasions, appealed to the court on the subject of bail. They have put before the court the financial circumstances of their client, pointed out the nature of the offence and the possibility of the appellant appearing before the appellant tribunal, and urged the court to do nothing that would prevent him from giving to his counsel the assistance required for the proper conduct of his case. It should not be necessary for counsel to attend at the Adelaide gaol, as counsel for Egon Kisch was required to do, to get instructions. The principle which I am urging is not inconsistent with the principles which operate in connexion with other legislation. In the case of men like Kisch or Griffin we may be sure that all the facts would be placed before the Court from the point of view of the Commonwealth by highly-paid barristers, some of whom might be disposed to agree with the suggestion of counsel for the defence that bail should not be so high as is provided in this section. All I ask is that the magistrate should have unfettered discretion in determining the amount of bail. It is well known that the opinion of the Court on this question is not the same as it was in 1925 because the depression has altered so materially the financial circumstances of litigants. 
No; but it is better that 99 guilty men should go unpunished than that one innocent man should be convicted. 
I suggest with very great respect to the Acting AttorneyGeneral that if a man is detained in the Adelaide gaol for a fortnight until argument with respect to bailis heard, that certainly is punishment, especially if subsequently the Court finds him not guilty of the offence charged against him. All I am- pleading for is that in the case of a man who, in the opinion of a magistrate, should be released on bail less than the amount specified in this legislation, the judgment of the magistrate should be unfettered. 
 I remind  Senator Daly  that the act which is being amended deals with persons whose presence at large in the Commonwealth is deemed to be undesirable. There is, therefore, a differentiation between offences committed under this act and ordinary criminal acts punishable under other legislation of the Commonwealth. Under this law it is alleged against a person, not that he is not a perfectly good man, but that he is not, in the opinion of the Minister, or an officer, a desirable citizen. 
No. It says that he has committed a crime against the laws of the country and for that offence he must stand his trial. The Immigration Act is operated against persons whose presence at large in Australia is deemed to be undesirable. The list includes any idiot, imbecile, feebleminded person, epileptic, person suffering from dementia, insane person, person who has been insane within five years previously or person who has had two or more attacks of insanity, any person suffering from a serious transmissible disease or defect, any person suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, trachoma, or with any loathsome or dangerous communicable disease, either general or local. Should that class of person get bail or should it be made easier for him to get bail? I would, however, point out that only a very small percentage of the people who are excluded would come under  Senator J.  V. MacDonald's heading of- 
I thought that the Leader of the Senate supplied the missing word and that that was the phrase which  Senator J.  V". MacDonald had used in his speech. Those are not the types of persons who come within the net of this law. They are a totally different class from the type I have mentioned. It is extremely undesirable that such persons should come into Australia. Our attempt is not to punish them, but to protect this country from them. 
 I entirely agree with the Acting Attorney-General  (Senator Brennan)  that the type of persons to whom he has referred should not be allowed to come in. Take the case of a person who is insane. This measure does not try, and is not intended to determine in the first instance the question of a man's sanity. Is there any State in Australia that would not put an insane person into a mental asylum? Let us assume, for the sake of argument, that the authorities, instead of having administered the Gaelic language test to Kisch, had declared that he was insane. Under this particular provision, if the magistrate who dealt with the case had any doubt he would have to find that he was insane. Any doubt is to be in favour of the prosecution. This amending bill has to be read in line with the existing law. If a magistrate had found that Kisch was insane, and the High Court had held on appeal that he was not, Kisch would, in the meantime, have been detained in an asylum quite improperly for a considerable time. Prostitutes and others, to whom, the Acting AttorneyGeneral has referred - 'persons who have been convicted of a criminal offence - would be kept under supervision  under  the State law. 
Let us assume that an insane person or a prostitute enters the country, and a magistrate, under this act, considers that person to be so undesirable that bail should not be allowed. What then? I would give a magistrate power to refuse bail, but an equal discretion to fix the amount of bail in any case in which he considered that bail should be granted. I would give these persons an opportunity to go before a magistrate and to explain their position to him, and would allow him to say whether in the interests of the community or in the interests of the persons themselves, they should he kept behind iron doors, or allowed out on bail. 
[11.48]. - I moves - 
That the bill he now read a second time. 
The bill makes provision for the first three months of the next financial year. This provision is necessary because Parliament will not be called together again before the 1st July next. The amount of the appropriation to which the Senate is asked to agree is £6,704,400. This amount includes the following sums for ordinary services :  - 

<graphic href="146332193504092_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

The items making up these sums are based on the appropriations passed by Parliament for the present year, and represent approximately one-quarter of the total appropriation, except in a few cases where expenditure on any item is heavy in the early part of the year. In addition, the usual provisions are made for " Refunds of Revenue " and "Advance to the Treasurer ". The amount set down for "Refunds of Revenue" is £500,000 and for "Advance to the Treasurer " £1,500,000. This latter item is required to carry on uncompleted works in progress oh the 30th June, 1935, and other urgent works, and to cover unforeseen and miscellaneous expenditure, including special grants to South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. These special grants, will be continued on the same basis as during the present financial year, pending the introduction of new bills. Provision is made in this bill only for the amount which is estimated to be sufficient to carry on essential services on the basis of the appropriation for the current financial year, 1934-35. No provision is made in this supply bill for any new expenditure or for any departure from existing policy. As nine months of the current financial year have elapsed, I take this opportunity of informing the Senate of the progress of the Commonwealth finances for that period so far as the figures are available. The year so far has been marked by a continuance of the buoyancy of revenue which was experienced in the last financial year, with the result that the finances generally are in a very satisfactory  position. Customs and excise revenue has continued to show an upward tendency, the collections for the nine months having been £28,601,000, which was £2,800,000  more than the receipts for the corresponding period of last financial  year,  and £2,650,000 in excess of the  pro rata  budget estimate. Post office revenue also has been very satisfactory; the total receipts for the nine months -were £10,450,000 or £700,000 more than the receipts for the same period of last year and £400,000 in excess of the  pro rata  budget estimate. Sales tax collections, although £300,000 less than the collections for the same period of last year,  owing to the reduction of the rate of tax and the additional exemptions granted, were £300,000 in excess of the  pro rata  budget estimate for the nine months. The position in regard to income tax is uncertain. Possibly the yield will not reach the budget estimate. The revenue under other sub-heads has been normal and shows no marked departure from the budget estimate. On the other hand, additional liabilities have 'been incurred since the budgetwas introduced and expenditure under various heads has exceeded the estimate. The proposals for relief to wheat-growers involve a total expenditure of £4,000,000, againstwhich the flour tax receipts this year will probably reach £750,000. Other expenditure increases include, flotation expenses and interest in connexion with London loan conversions, unemployment relief works from revenue approved by Parliament, £176,000, and additional payments to States under the Federal Aid Roads Agreement, £200,000. 
It is too soon to make any reliable forecast of the financial results for the- full year ending the 30th June next, but the present indications are that the results will he satisfactory. 
Although the Government is seeking parliamentary approval for three months' supply for next financial year, it intends to 'call Parliament together before the expiration of that period. It is proposed that on this occasion the budget shall he presented to Parliament  as  soon as possible after it re-assembles, and the granting of the three months' supply now sought will obviate the necessity for passing a Supply Bill at that juncture. The second Supply Bill for next year will therefore be presented after the budget has been introduced. 
As I have already mentioned, the Supply Bill now before the Senate is, in accordance with established practice, based on this year's appropriations and does not contain provision for expenditure on new services. The proposals for the new year will be embodied in the budget and honorable senators will then have an opportunity to discuss the Government's financial proposals in detail. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
[11.56]. - . McDonald, who was the son of a family well known in Geelong, was murdered by one of his own native policemen, not by uncivilized natives. The murderer afterwards committed suicide. Naturally, the parents are much distressed at the loss of a son to whom they were greatly attached. The brother of the murdered man proposes to visit the scene of the tragedy, but not with any punitive intent; he will go there under the auspices of the administration, merely to be able to assure his parents that the victim has been decently buried and to bring back to Australia his possessions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.1 a.m. (Wednesday). 
Will the PostmasterGeneral ascertain if it is possible to have a public telephone installed at Ainslie for the convenience of the residents of that district? 
I shall be only too pleased to make the inquiry. A request for this convenience has not been made to me, nor has the matter come under my notice at any time. 
On the 4th April,  Senator E.  B.  Johnston asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What was the average price of wheat f.o.r. at principal Australian ports during the months of December, January, February, and  March last ? 
The Minister for Commerce has furnished the following information with regard to the average daily quotations during the periods mentioned: - 

<graphic href="146332193504103_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Acting Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it the practice of the Government departments to publish handbooks to the principal acts and regulations thereunder administered by them? 
If so, what handbooks are in print? 
Are copies available to members of this Parliament? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Acting Prime Minister has supplied, the following answer :  - 
It is not the practice of all departments to publish handbooks to the principal acts, and regulations published thereunder administered by them. Handbooks have, however, been published from time to time relating to certain taxation acts, and the Invalid and. Old-Age Pensions Act. 
The  SalesTax Handbook,  a revised issue of which is now jn course of preparation, is available in the Parliamentary Library for reference by honorable senators and members. 
A revised edition of the handbook on the Invalid and Old-Age Pensions Act also is being prepared, mid will shortly be available for issue. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
When will the work of laying the telephone cable between the mainland and Tasmania be undertaken ? 
When may we expect the work to be completed and ready for business? 
It is expected that the laying of the cable will be undertaken towards the end of theyear, and it is hoped that a commercial service will be available about April, next. 
I move - 
That Statutory Rule No. 19 of 1935, amending the Customs ( Prohibited Imports) Regulations, be disallowed. 
The recent publication in the  Commonwealth Gazette  of this statutory rule, placing sulphur on the list of prohibited imports, naturally caused a good deal of concern to be felt by primary producers throughout Australia. As every honorable senator knows, sulphur "is one of the most important constituents of superphosphate, and is also used for other purposes on farms and orchards. Superphosphate, in particular, and other artificial manures, play too important a. part in the economic life of Australia for the matter of their importation or exclusion to be left to the whim of any Minister. I believe that the administration of the present Government i3 sympathetic; but unless either the Senate or another place disallows this regulation, a less sympathetic government or Minister may, in the future, refuse to permit importations. I am opposed to the placing of any prohibition or restriction upon the importation of superphosphate, phosphatic rock, artificial fertilizers or sulphur, and disapprove of any action that may either increase the cost of production or prevent its being lowered. I contend that the permanent prohibition of the importation of sulphur, artificial manure, or phosphatic rock, would be altogether out of harmony with the policy adopted by successive Federal Governments. Such prohibitions were not imposed by either the Scullin Government or the last Government, and I do not expect such action to be taken by this Government. 
Australia has gone to a great deal of trouble to ensure adequate supplies. Under the Nauru agreement, large quantities of rock phosphate have been imported from that territory. Imports have also been made from the Gilbert and Ellice Islands. These have always been free of duty. Phosphatic rock is a constituent of superphosphate. Sulphur is another, and an equally important one. No restriction should be placed on the importation of either. Superphosphate is essential to all rural production. 
I am concerned not only with supplies, hut with prices. Every requisite for the manufacture of artificial manures should be admitted to this country at the lowest possible rate, from whatever country is willing to supply it. Last year Australia imported 7,480,378 cwt. of rock phosphate valued at £474,228. That rock phosphate was imported free of duty, and without restriction. During 1932-33, the imports were 9,569,006 cwt. valued at £583,995. In each of those years over one-third of the total imports was distributed in Western Australia. It will, therefore, be seen that anything which affects the price of superphosphate is of the utmost importance to that State. The official figures relating to the importation of sulphur into Aus tralia during 1932-33 and 1933-34 are shown in the following statement - 

<graphic href="146332193504103_2_0.jpg"></graphic>


 No prohibition that permanently restricts the supplies of sulphur or superphosphates would be acceptable to the farmers of Australia. Any provision which makes the importation of these commodities subject to the whim of the Minister for the time being must increase the price of this necessary commodity to the producers of Australia. At a time when this Parliament is voting large sums of money to assist rural industries, it would be illogical to take action which might increase permanently the cost of superphosphates to those whom . the Governmentis assisting in other directions. In the various associations of farmers and wheat-growers throughout Australia, earnest men are scrutinizing every avenue by which the cost of superphosphate might be reduced. If administered by an unsympathetic Ministry this regulation must prevent a reduction of the cost even if it does not increase it. 
I have brought this subject forward this morning in the hope that the Minister will state the Government's intentions to it. The only way by which the proposed prohibition or restriction of the importation of sulphur, and the consequent increase of the price of superphosphates, can be prevented is by a resolution in one House of the Parliament. I have brought the matter forward at this late stage in the session because, if not disallowed, the regulation becomes part of the law of the land, under which sulphur may be admitted only under licence from the Minister. 
I second the motion. Notwithstanding that I am of the opinion that, in the circumstances mentioned by  Senator Johnston,  the regulation should be disallowed, I do not wish to embarrass the Government. Although opposed to anything which might increase the cost of sulphur, and in turn, the cost of rural production, I am of the opinion that we can well allow imports to be regulated by the present Government under the licence system. There is, however, no guarantee that another Minister for Trade and Customs would not act differently. 
So far from this prohibition being injurious to the primary producers of this country, the underlying reason for the inclusion of sulphur in the list of prohibited articles was a desire to assist those producers. The Government will take steps to ensure that the prices of sulphur and superphosphates will  not  be increased. It is at present negotiating trade treaties with other countries and desires to be in a position to enter into bargaining arrangements with them. The subject is too delicate to discuss in detail at this stage. It is sufficient to say that with some countries Australia has an adverse trade balance, and with other countries a favorable trade balance. Included in the former list are countries from which sulphur is obtained, and the Government wishes to be in a position to exchange Australian products for their sulphur. I give the Senate the assurance, that until the treaty proposals have been placed before Parliament, there will be no interference with existing conditions. It would not be wise at this stage for me to say more than that. The Government will oppose the motion. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poll)  adjourned.  
I - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
It is within the knowledge of honorable senators that on the 25th January, 1934, a royal commission was- appointed to inquire into and report upon the economic position of the industries of growing, handling and marketing wheat, manufacturing flour, and other commodities from wheat, and manufacturing, distributing and selling bread. The commission came into existence partly by reason of the exercise of the executive power vested in the Commonwealth, and partly because of the provisions of the Royal Commissions Act of 1902-1933,' section 2 of which provides that- 
Whenever the Governor-General by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Commonwealth issues a commission to any persons to make any inquiry, the  president  or  chairman  of the commission, or the sole commissioner as the case may be, may, by writing under his hand, summon any person to attend the commission at a time and place named in the summons, and then and there to give evidence and to produce any books, documents or writings in his custody or control material to the subject-matter of the inquiry. 
In the recitals of  tha Letters Patent reference is made to the legislative power of the Commonwealth with respect to taxation and bounties on. the production or export of goods, and it is stated that questions have arisen with respect to the payment of  bounties  for the assistance of wheat-growers and with respect to the effect of taxation under Commonwealth laws upon the industries of growing, handling and marketing wheat, manufacturing flour and other commodities from wheat and manufacturing, and distributing and selling bread. These recitals give an indication of the legislative powers of the Parliament under which the inquiry at present being made by the Royal Commission on the Wheat. Flour and Bread Industries is being conducted. 
The powers of the Commonwealth Parliament in relation to royal commissions were considered some years ago by the Privy Council in the case of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company against the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth. In view of the decision in that case it may happen that during the recess differences of opinion will arise as to the right of the commission to insist on evidence of a certain nature. 
I do not propose to go into the details of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company case. Suffice it to say that the Privy Council indicated that if a specific act were passed by the 'Commonwealth, authorizing an inquiry into a specific subject within the legislative power of the Parliament, such an act would be within the terms of the Constitution. 
This bill seeks to facilitate the proceedings of the Royal Commission on theWheat, Flour and Bread Industries by providing that the commission shall haveall the powers, rights and privileges which are specified in the Royal Commission!?. Act, and that the provisions of that act shall have effect as though they were included in this measure and in terms made applicable to that commission. 
The importance of the royal commission mentioned in this bill cannot be disputed. Its inquiries are directed to matters which directly affect, not only the wheat-farmers and associated industries,  but also the consumers. It is, therefore, of the utmost importance that the powers of the commission should he strengthened in order to avoid the possibility of any party successfully challenging any request made by the commission for the supply of evidence or documents relating to the matters into which it is inquiring. This is not the first occasion upon which it has been proposed to facilitate the proceedings of a royal commission by a special act of Parliament. In 1914, the powers of the Meat Export Trade Commission were strengthened in a manner similar to that proposed in the bill. Similar action was taken in 1933 with respect to the Petrol Commission. With regard to the Petrol Commission Bill, it will be remembered that the passage of the bill alone had the effect of disposing the officers of certain companies to produce books and documents to the production of which they had previously objected. I think all honorable senators will agree that any royal commission appointed by the Governmentshould be invested with all powers necessary for the effective conduct of its inquiries. This is what is proposed in the bill now before the Senate in relation to the Wheat Commission. There is one other small amendment in the bill relating to the constitution of a quorum. Clause 3 provides that for the purpose of taking evidence any two members shall be sufficient to constitute a quorum, notwithstanding anything in the letters patent appointing the commission. Honorable senator may accept my assurance that all that is desired is that, during the parliamentary adjournment, the commission, which is an extremely, important body, should be vested with all the powers that it is possible to give it. Those powers, if required, will, no doubt, be used wisely by the commission, but they may never have to be exercised. I commend the bill to the favorable consideration of the Senate. 
I realize the great importance of this bill, and for that reason I shall not ask the Assistant Minister to agree to the adjournment of the debate. He stated just now that during the dying days of this session it was necessary for the Government to bring before the Senate many important measures. I am so concerned about getting into recess myself that I sympathize very much with the feelings of the Government, which, like an efficient boxer, is anxious to dodge the blows of the other fellow. The Government, in all probability, is wise from its view-point in rushing legislation into and through this chamber, giving us on this side no opportunity of considering it. I therefore say to the Government, " Well, the country has blessed you, it has put you there, giving you a mandate to do this simple thing, and you are quite right to use your powers to do it. You are entitled to do it in this way, in regard to this bill and others that are to follow. So go ahead; I will not oppose your desire to give expression to the will of the people. I give you my blessing, and I hope that the bread I am throwing upon the waters may eventually come back to me." 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a. second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Standing Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Government in this bill is asking Parliament for authority to spend £6,704,400, giving details of the objects to which it is proposed to devote the money. Having given the measure the gravest possible' consideration, I have tried to visualize what is in the distant future. The sum covered by the bill seems a ridiculously small one for the Government to ask for. Why is it not bold enough, having a mandate from the people, to ask Parliament for Supply, not for three months, but for three- years? Why does it, having a mandate for three years, bother to call the Senate together to ask for a paltry three months' Supply? "When the three months have elapsed, the Government will still be in power, but on my side of the chamber there will be only the "Three Musketeers". They will consist of the Leader of the Opposition, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, and the Whip. The Government has, in my opinion, been merciful to what remains of my party, in asking for so little. It might have met with some obstruction in the House of Representatives if it had asked straight out for enough money to carry on till the next election, but it could easily have put such a bill through the Senate, in spite of all that could be done by my three comrades who will be left here to guard the trenches.I, therefore, give it my blessing, together with this £6,704,400. 
Under ordinary circumstances I would offer no opposition to the passage of this bill; but as the Senate is to adjourn for five or six months without giving legislative enactment to the very important recommendations made to this Government by the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The point of order is sustained. The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the bill. 
Would I not be in order,  Mr. President,  in giving reasons for objecting to the passage of this bill while much of the work that should be done before the Parliament adjourns for a lengthy period is left unfinished? 
If the honorable senator can relate his remarks to any item in the bill, he may proceed. 
Flour Tax. Now we are adjourning without making arrangements for the continuation of such assistance or the stabilization of the wheat industry. 
The Standing Orders must be strictly observed. At the second-reading stage of a bill, which the Senate may not amend, debate must be confined to the subject-matter of the bill. 
Provision is made for assistance to the wheatgrowing industry only up to the 30th June next. No provision is being made by the Government for the stabilization of the wheat industry on the lines of the royal commission's report. I maintain that such provision should be made. 
Yes. 
Th The Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry recommended that legislation should be enacted for the stabilization of the whole industry in order that annual appeals to Parliament for assistance might be obviated. 
The Royal Commission recommended that assistance should be afforded to the industry by the fixation of a home consumption price for wheat. 
Assistance to wheat-growers is being administered by the Department of Commerce. Would I not be in order in touching upon the activities or inactivities of the department in that direction? The Department of the Treasury, which also is mentioned in the bill, administers the collection of flour tax, which will expire on the 30th June. 
Provision is also made in this bill for the expenses of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry. 
At any rate the Department of Commerce has been administering the provision of funds for assistance to wheat-growers for the last four years. The royal commission has recommended that the industry should be stabilized and that a home consumption price of wheat should be fixed. 
The Government proposes to close down Parliament for six months. We are asked to vote Supply to carry on the ordinary services of this country until September next. These include the allowances to members of Parliament who are leaving Canberra for several months without giving effect to the most important recommendations of the royal commission for assistance to the wheat-growers. 
I object to the granting of Supply to pay the salaries of members of Parliament for the six months during which Parliament will be idle, if it adjourns before dealing with a proper scheme for the carrying out of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Wheat with regard to the wheat industry, and the taking of a poll of wheat-growers as to whether or not they desire a compulsory pool. It will be a disgrace and a scandal if the Government abandons the wheat-growers entirely for six months. I believed that when we re-assembled a few weeks ago an important part of our programme would be legislation for the stabilization of the wheat industry. The Country party supported the No. 2 Wheat Marketing Bill in both Houses, and legislation to secure a home consumption price should now be enacted. Up to the 30th June, the Commonwealth had expended £10,000 on the inquiry being conducted by the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry. 
I contend that this bill -should not be passed at this stage. Parliament should not adjourn until we have had an opportunity to put into operation the recommendations of the Wheat Commission. What is the reason for this haste to close down Parliament ? Why did we sit on Monday, so as to be able to rise to-day, leaving the promise for the protection of the wheat-farmers entirely unfulfilled for six months. When I rise to refer, as I am entitled to do, to the recommendations of this commission, and show how these could be effectuated in conformity with the policy and promises of the Country party- 
I find it difficult to discuss the measure when I am not permitted to touch upon the outstanding points of the Government's performances, or .non-performances, with respect to the wheat industry.   Senator Sampson.  - The honorable senator's trouble is that he " missed the bus " on the first reading. 
I deliberately refrained from raising these matters on the first reading, as I have always thought that government administration, or maladministration, could be debated on the second reading of a supply bill. However, Ministers are up in arms against me, and are not prepared to let me criticize the Government's failure to do its duty by the wheat-growers before Parliament adjourns for six months. I regret that the Standing Orders do not permit me to make my protest fully on this point. 
For what reason did honorable senators come to Canberra this session ? I am prepared, as I think other honorable senators are, to sit until Parliament enacts legislation necessary for the protection of that large portion of our community which is engaged in wheat production, an industry which gives more employment than any other industry hut is suffering under disabilities which Ministers will not allow me to mention. 
Yes. I move - 
That all words after the word " That " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " the bill be returned to the House of Representatives with a request that before going into recess the Government pass legislation for giving effect to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry for the stabilization of the wheat industry on a permanent basis, and for taking a poll of the wheat-growers oh the question of a compulsory wheat pool, under the direct control of the growers." 
The object of this amendment is to secure, on a permanent basis, an immediate home consumption price for wheat instead of the payment of an annual dole. 
It seems that I am not to be permitted to deliver the speech which I carefully prepared on the subject of the wheat industry. The wheat-growers will be given another dole next harvest instead of a proper stabilized price for the Australian consumption. It is quite evident to me that the members of the Government are heartily ashamed of their abandonment of the wheat-farmers for the next six months. 
I  withdraw  them. I need only add that the way in which Ministers have gagged my attempt to deal with the needs of the wheat-farmers speaks for itself. 
I take this opportunity to draw attention to the case of Captain Conway, whose claim for compensation from the Commonwealth Government is of long standing Captain Conway has been endeavouring for nearly twenty years to secure a settlement of "his claim; but it was not until a year or two ago that the Minister for Defence of the day agreed that an officer should be appointed as a commission to inquire into it. 
My complaint is that, in the proposed vote for the Department of Defence, no provision is made for the payment of compensation to Captain Conway. The department holds that he has not established his claim; but the information I have received leads me to the conclusion that it is a just one. 
I have no desire, sir, to disregard your ruling. I shall avail myself of an opportunity, which I hope will occur on the adjournment, to bring the case of Captain Conway before the Senate. 
I fear that, like  Senator Johnston,  I may experience some difficulty in bringing before the Senate at this stage a matter of importance to which I am anxious to refer, and that probably I should have dealt with it on the motion for the first reading of the bill. I desire, with all the vigour and earnestness at my command, to impress, not only on the Government, but also upon honorable senators generally, the paramount importance of the question of the defence of Australia. There is in the schedule to the bill an item, under "Defence," relating to training, maintenance, repairs, &amp;c, and this I hope will enable me to discuss the inadequacy of our defence preparations. 
Notwithstanding our dreams and visions after the close  of the Great War of 1914-18, notwithstanding all the talk at the time that it was " a war to end war," and that the nations thereafter would settle their differences, not by resort to arms, but by arbitration, we find that the nations of the world to-day are vieing with each other in their preparations for war. This vast and sparsely-settled country of ours is one of the richest prizes that any nation strong enough to take it could secure. The first duty of any government, no matter what its politics may be, is therefore" to prepare for its defence, so that the manhood of Australia may be able, should the occasion arise, to put up a fight, and not be led like sheep to the shambles, which is exactly what happens when an untrained mob - and that is practically all we have to rely on to-day - is engaged in warfare. 
The press, in discussing our adverse trade balance recently, has suggested that the Government might think fit in the circumstances to reduce its estimates of expenditure. It is common knowledge that whenever there is a demand to cut down public expenditure, the defence vote is the first to be attacked. Owing possibly to war weariness and disillusionment, since the great war the advocacy of an adequate defence policy has not aroused any enthusiasm on the part of the majority of the people, and, consequently, those who preach the policy of preparedness for war and national self-reliance do not win many votes. The outlook today, however, is very black. 
Casting back our minds to the early days of July, 1914, we recall that Europe appeared at the time to bo slumbering, and all seemed peaceful. Yet, before the end of that month, war was upon us. And war will come upon us just as suddenly again. I suggest to the Government and the Senate that in this connexion we should do some hard thinking, and very carefully consider the position in which Australia stands to-day. I have studied this subject very seriously from the days of my youth, when I was a citizen soldier, and have always given much thought to it. The world situation to-day is appalling. Our own position, in relation to the supply of trained, or partially trained men and reserves of partially trained men on which we might draw, is woeful. Such supplies are practically non-existent. It is open to very grave doubt whether the surviving members of the Australian Imperial Force would be of very much use in the event of another outbreak. The youngest of them to-day must be somewhere about 40 years of age, whereas the maximum age for our first draft, if war came, would be 35. The majority of our returned soldiers are well over that age, and because of their war service are not the men they were. They might be useful in the training of others, but it is doubtful whether, in the event of another world' conflagration, we should be given an opportunity to train men. This is a matter of vital concern, and I appeal to the Senate to give it earnest considera tion. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  and several other members of the Government are at present on the other side of the world, and, therefore, although I have prepared a lot of matter on this subject for submission to the Senate, I shall have to defer its use until we reassemble. 
The history of the world for the last 3,000 years shows that for every year of peace that has been enjoyed there have been 14 years of war. Notwithstanding the appalling loss of life and the magnitude of the expenditure which the last world conflagration involved, man, who is naturally a combative animal, has not yet learned his lesson. There are many people who preach the gospel that the best way to avoid war is to be absolutely unprepared for it - that war will not come if that policy be adopted. I entirely differ from that point of view, and I hope honorable senators will bear with me while I read some verses that expound a doctrine, which, in my opinion, we should adopt. The title of this poem, which was published in  The Navy,  is " Peace with Honour ". It reads - 
When dogs delight to bark and bite 
As 'tis their nature to, 
The Combatant that wins the fight 
Is not the one whose weight is light, 
Whose teeth are small and few; 
And when the nations come to grips, 
As happens now and then, 
The victor is the one who slips 
Into the fray with lots of ships 
And guns and planes and men. 
Tis well to have one's quarrel just, 
But he who'd win the fray 
Had best have arms in which to trust, 
Or he may live to bite the dust 
When trouble comes his way; 
For might is right in battle grim, 
And neither prayers nor pelf 
Will make his chances aught but slim 
Who calls on heaven to succour him, 
But cannot help himself. 
Then, since the hope of human hearts 
Is oft to ashes turned, 
And he who shuns the warlike arts 
Is like to lose his ships and marts 
And have his homestead burned; 
Let us, who have no urge of greed 
Orracial animus, 
Sec that we have the arms we need 
In case the neighbours should proceed 
To take it out of us. 
The poem continues - 
The wise man works with might and main, 
For peace, but also notes 
That when he seeks that end to gain, 
One fighting ship or aeroplane 
Is worth a million throats. 
Thewars we apprehend to-day 
Will never be begun 
If Britain, to the world can say, "Don't you tough eggs start getting gay, 
Or we shall dot you one". 
Those lines which I commend to honorable senators sum up the position. I feel that the strength of the British Empire is being reduced to such a perilous extent that it is only right to tell the people the truth. If we do I have not the slightest doubt that they will welcome the reintroduction of Part XII of the Defence Act which was most shamefully abandoned by a previous government. 
I strongly object to the remarks of  Senator Sampson  that Part XII of the Defence Act was most shamefully abandoned by a previous government. As the statement was made, I think, without thought, I do not propose to refer to it further. 
Under the Prime Minister's Department, provision is made for the expenditure of £1,000 on gold-mining research. 
An interesting article entitled,  Debts, Unemployment, Gold and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,  written by  Dr. A.  C. D. Rivett, appears in the quarterly bulletin of the journal of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, published in August last. In that article  Dr. Rivett  states - 
Up to the present time the council has deliberately restricted its attention to the so called primary industries - actually plant and animal production. Its general aim can be stated, I suppose, as the production of greater quantity per unit of cost, whether calculated in terms of human labour, machinery or other agency. 
It is pleasing to note that the council is now devoting its attention to other activities and that under this bill a sum is being voted to assist gold-mining research. Whilst some day we may not need gold in our economic system, to-day we must deal with realities. The article should be read by every Australian citizen as reasons are given why greater attention should be devoted to gold production. One paragraph reads - 
In the Gluckstein Memorial Lecture for 1933,  Dr. Herbert  Levinstein, one of England's leading industrial chemists, asks how a man of sound training and extensive experience on a manufacturing plant wouldhave faced the problem set before England at the time of the debt settlement with America ... If we had arranged to pay our indemnity to America in bricks, in many ways a more useful commodity than gold, we should have found the stocks inadequate. Should we have pulled down our houses to supply the bricks? No, We should have opened up new brick fields wherever raw materials were to be found, and no doubt, at first ration the bricks that could be used for non-essential buildings in our own country. This is precisely the reverse of what was done by our politicians and those advising them, in the matter of sending gold. There was neither search for new  raw  materials, although they were available, nor was there any rationing. We tore down our financial structures to send the bricks. 

 Dr. Rivett contends that it would be preferable to exert more energy in producing gold in order to meet our commitments. He continues - 
Already we hear, and more than hear of export quotas for Australian wheat and beef and butter to Britain. 
The position in this respect is acute, and while  Major Elliott  is endeavouring to assist British primary producers theCommonwealth Government is also actively engaged in trying to increase the exports of those commodities to Great Britain. He further states - 
If we did our level beet to pay England in foodstuffs, not merely the annual interest, but also the principal sums which we owe to her we could easily create a situation utterly intolerable to her ... On the 30th June, 1932, we owed in London £554,528,000 sterling, and the annual interest bill was £26,301,000. With gold at £6 sterling per ounce we need 134 tons of it to pay the yearly bill, while 2,830 tons to liquidate the debt . . . We are not bending our energies to the . production of 134 tons of gold every year, let alone 2,830 tons over several years to clear us of our external obligation altogether. 

 Dr. Rivett, who states that our overseas commitments could be met with commodities other than wool, wheat, meat, butter, or eggs, continues - 
As things are at present, there is no talk of restriction on gold importation. Gold may be, and is, one of the less useful of the chemical elements: but the world does not yet assess it on its worth to the chemist, or even to the pleasing appearance, overrated I am sure, which it presents to the eye. The time may come when neither as a medium of exchange nor as a store of value will it possess anything approaching its present prestige. With all that, however, I have nothing to do. My sole point is that gold is a product which England will readily take to-day at £6 sterling and more per ounce, while wheat and meat and butter are products which she is increasingly diffident about taking, even at depreciated prices . . . Our debt could be liquidated, as I have said, with 2,830 tons of gold. One ton of gold at £6 per ounce is the equivalent of 35,000 tons of wheat at 3s. per bushel, or 7.000 tons of beef at 3d. per lb., or 1,310 tons of wool at £20 per bale. To offer to pay the debt in these products would lead to chaos far exceeding that which followed the flood in Noah's day. To pay in gold would mean only storage place in a London vault of 5,260 cubic feet; room for 8,200 petrol tins containing four gallons of gold apiece. The annual interest bill could be tucked away in 390 petrol tins. Is it fantastic to suggest an endeavour by us in Australia, with our huge reservoir of unused labour to try and dig our external debt out of the earth? 
While I commend the Government for assisting gold production even to the limited extent proposed in the bill I feel that it has not concentrated its attention sufficiently upon such an important subject. Instead of endeavouring to increase the exports of wool, wheat, and meat, greater attention should be devoted to the production of gold. If payable deposits were discovered work would be provided for many who are now unemployed, settlement would increase and trade generally would be stimulated. Our overseas commitments must now be paid mainly with wool, wheat, meat and other products. 
In answer to a question I asked the other day the Minister stated that the gold held by the Commonwealth Bank is now valued at only £1,400,000. During the recess the Government should devote closer attention to the subject . of gold production, so that additional employment may be provided and we may have some prospect of a revival of trade. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

 It is, I think, desirable that some reply be made to the suggestion of  Senator Sampson  that the Government should reintroduce the system of compulsory military training. I have no objection to a certain amount of physical training, because I recognize the need for a sufficient force to maintain peace and good order in society; but I deprecate the implications associated with a return to the system of compulsory military training of the youth of Australia. I have no doubt that  Senator Sampson  raised this issue in order, that it should engage the attention of the people of this country, and from that point of view, I. suppose one cannot find fault with him. I recall that when the present Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  returned from the Imperial Conference in 1911. in company with the then Prime Minister, the late  Mr. Andrew  Fisher, the people of Australia were told something of what had happened at that gathering, and shortly afterwards the system of compulsory military training was instituted. 
My recollection is that it was inaugurated in 1912. I say this, because I had some work to do in connexion with the Victoria Barracks in Melbourne at about that time, and the scheme was then in its early stages. 
That would follow the return of the right hon-  orable gentleman from the Imperial Conference. 
I hope that  Senator Sampson's  action in bringing the matter before the Senate does not imply that he thinks we are on the verge of another world war. No sane person would welcome a recurrence of the conditions that existed from 1914 to 191S. I do not think that we shall have another world war for a generation or two at least. European nations, which have been responsible for most of the major armed disputes have, I should imagine, had enough of war for the next, 50 years. They are all just about ruined, and I feel sure  that, if it came to a showdown, and if nations, like individuals, had to pay up for all that happens in a world war, they would be bankrupt. Even Great Britain, that financial Rock of Gibraltar for hundreds of years before the Great War, a nation with over £4,000,000,000 invested abroad, would be unable to meet its obligations. Even the United States of America, which reached a position of financial pre-eminence during the Great War, but which since has been involved in a devastatingeconomic war, is not in the mood to participate in another armed conflict. Nor would the Government of that country encourage the display of a war-like attitude by any European nation, because of its probable repercussion throughout the world. 
The objectionable feature about the reference by  Senator Sampson  this morning to the need for the re-introduction of compulsory military training, is that the Government of Germany, Russia, Italy or France, may take the view that if a democratic nation like Australia deems it necessary to re-introduce compulsory military training for' its youth, it believes that the war cloud is again appearing on the horizon, and is preparing to meet it. 

 Senator J. V. MacDONALD.Switzerland is surrounded by nations in arms, and ever since the middle centuries has been exposed to the danger of armed conflict; therefore, to maintain its independence, successive governments have wisely prepared the citizens of that country to defend themselves. 
No. Nevertheless, Switzerland shares with Belgium the reputation of having been one of the cockpits of Europe. 

 - Senator Sampson dealt at some length with defence measures, and advocated the reintroduction of compulsory military training- We on this side take the view that, instead of spending more money on compulsory military training, we should give more attention to providing finance to ensure work for our unemployed. 

 Senator Sampson's remarks will stimulate the interest of armament manufacturers in all countries. They realize that the development of a war psychology among the people of any nation means more business, and I imagine that they will especially welcome talk of this nature in Australia, which has never been regarded as a belligerent nation. We do not seek the conquest of other peoples, either for trade advantages or other purposes, nor are we hungry for more territory. For this reason, it is regrettable that  Senator Sampson  should have so strongly advocated the reintroduction of compulsory military training, in support of which he cited several verses of a poem, the effect of which is to arouse in the breasts of the people the martial spirit and glorify war. In my boyhood days we were told more about the horrors of war. I well remember a poem, " The Little Drum," which was then in the schoolbooks - 
Yonder is a little drum, 
Hanging on the wall. 
Dusty wreaths and tattered flags, 
Round about it fall. 
A shepherd youth on Cheviot's hills, 
Watched the sheep whose skin - 
A cunning workman wrought and gave 
The little drum its din. 
And such is Glory! Yes, and still 
Will man the tempter follow, 
Nor learn that glory, like its drum, 
Is but a sound and hollow. 

 Senator Sampson might with advantage refresh his memory concerning the class of literature Which was placed in the hands of the young people when he and I were adolescents. 
I am glad to hear the honorable senator say that. The rising generation of that time had inculcated in them the principles of peace among the nations - principles that are in consonance with the Christian spirit, which teaches that people are not brought into the world to make war upon one another, but that every one should love his neighbour as himself. 
So I disagree with  Senator Sampson  when he says that the Defence vote is insufficient. It is sufficient for the defence needs of the Commonwealth. 
Yes, I do. Because of a physical disability, I did not become a soldier during the Boer War - a war which the present Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has said should never have been undertaken by Britain. That view is now held by many others who at that time believed that it was a just war. I have a great respect for a man who is prepared to shed his blood for a cause in which he believes. The supreme test of manhood is the willingness of a man to risk all that he has for a cause that he holds dear. The Labour party takes an international view of world affairs, and believes that the nations of the world should not prepare for war. At any rate, Australia should be the last country to encourage the war spirit, especially against any European nation. In the last analysis our White Australia policy means Australia for the European races. I do not agree with those who say that Australia is as a rip« plum, to be picked by any nation which chooses to come along. Should any Asiatic nation, swollen with pride, attack Australia, every white nation would immediately spring to arms and come to our defence, in order to preserve Australia for the white race. I am not one who bellieves that it would be so dreadful a thing if the British Empire were overthrown and we were placed under the domination of France or Germany. The people of those nations belong to the white race; indeed, we have a large proportion of their blood in our veins. I do not think that our 120,000,000 cousins in the United States of America would permit Australia to be seized by any other nation. 

 Senator Sampson advocated a return to the system of compulsory military training. I do not think that there is any need for that, because the last war showed that a system of voluntary enlistment and training was sufficient. Had conscription been carried, Australia's indebtedness would have been increased by many hundreds of millions of pounds. I oppose compulsory military training because I believe that we should advance to a better state than one of constant preparedness for war. If we listen to the disturbing rumours of war - the possibility of attack by Japan, the risk of a German invasion - we shall incur expenditure beyond our ability to pay. Unless the nations 'cry a halt, the time is not far distant when women will be trained for military service, and children of tender years, dressed in uniform and carrying, guns, will parade our streets. 

 - Senator Sampson quoted some verses which, with all respect, I submit were of greatlength. They reminded me »f the parody, running into 300 or 400 lines, based on the well-known couplet - 
Man wants but little here below 
Nor wants that little long. 
Although I believe in defence. I think that Australia would do far better to provide work for its unemployed than to prepare for war, which can only result  iD  increased misery. 
.- When I heard  Senator Sampson  speaking I was more convinced than ever that most of those who have interested themselves in military service get  an altogether erroneous idea of the necessity for spending large sums of money for what they describe as defence measures. I protest against the growth of armaments throughout the world. Some of the best authorities tell us that Europe to-day is more an armed camp than before the commencement of the Great War in 1914. Why should we in Australia join in the armaments race which, if continued, must ruin the world ? I have read a good deal on the subject of war and armaments - and I have not confined myself to one side of the subject - and I am convinced that the constant preaching of the doctrine of fear and the necessity for defence is largely responsible for the present armaments race. Each nation believes that it must increase its armaments because other nations are increasing theirs. Some of us have been termed disloyalists because we have supported the Anti-War Movement, but, instead, we should be commended for attempting to avert disaster by checking the war fever. If one nation alone were to take up the cause of peace to the extent of total and absolute disarmament, it might be in danger of attack by another nation, but a worldwide movement for peace is different. The Anti-War Movement seeks not only to prevent war in the immediate future, but also to force the alleged statesmen who now govern the world to agree to the simultaneous disarmament of all nations. Obviously,- if all nations resolved never again to go to war, the necessity for defence would disappear. Australia is joining in the armaments race. 
-All nations say that. Each one is afraid of the others, and is seeking to secure itself by arming to the teeth. If that policy would be fatal for them, it would be equally fatal for us. To some extent, we are joining in this mad armament race, and if the Government receives the endorsement of the people for what it has done it will go still further, and the amount now expended on armaments will be but a fraction of what will have to be spent in the future. We are  vir- tually  placing ourselves under the heel of the financial ring which finances ware, and, on a minor scale, drifting into the same position as the other great powers that are frantically arming to-day.  I believe that we are on the wrong track altogether. The best service that one can render in this or any other country is to join wholeheartedly in the world movement against war, so as to make impossible a recurrence of the world cataclysm we so recently experienced. 
. Some time ago, under the retrenchment, scheme adopted by the Government, the Postmaster-General abolished railway travelling post offices, a convenience which had been in existence in Tasmania for many years. The facilities offered by such post offices were much appreciated in the north-west coastal districts of Tasmania and other outlying parts of that State. The wayside railway stations are receiving offices; and formerly letters which were posted there were stamped and sorted in the train and subsequently delivered at stations further along the line. As the receiving offices are in ninny instances adjacent to the school, children returning from school collected the family mail ; thus many of the letters were posted and delivered on the same day. Since this service has been discontinued, many people have been inconvenienced, and letters posted in one town in Tasmania for delivery in an adjacent town are carried to a central post office, where they are sorted and placed into mail bags; they are despatched by a return train, and do not reach their destination in some instances until the following day. The trains on the northwest coast line run at infrequent intervals, and much inconvenience is caused to the residents of that area by the withdrawal of the travelling post office. The saving made by the department as a result of the suspension of these facilities cannot be very great. I ask the Postmaster-General to look into this matter, and to consider favorably the restoration to the very deserving outback people of the facilities that obtained before the retrenchment scheme was put into operation. 
Th« whole subject of postal services is at present under review. I have  a very  soft spot in my heart for the people living in outlying districts who suffer grave disabilities in many respects, and I shall extend every consideration to their requests. Naturally, the cost of the restoration of such services will have to be considered, because we cannot restrict them to any particular district or State. If it is decided to revert to the former system . it will have to be applied generally. I remind honorable senators that the loss on country telephonic services, which has to be borne by users in the metropolitan areas, is something like £350,000 annually. The honorable senator can rest assured that the services in outlying districts are receiving the earnest consideration of the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Sum available for the purposes set forth in schedule). 
.- In looking through the schedule, I find that no provision has been made for the repatriation of fallen senators. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 

 Proposed votes - The Parliament, £40,460; The Prime Minister's Department, £90,990; The Department of tho Treasury, £181,850; The AttorneyGeneral's Department, £41,320; The Department of the Interior, £87,980 - agreed to. 
Department of Defence. 

 Proposed vote, £1,049,950. 
. --It is essential that in building up our air defences money should be expended on the provision of landing grounds in the northern parts of Australia. Has any action been taken to establish an air base at Cooktown? 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Department  of  Trade and Customs, £136,560; Department of Health, £26,630; Department of Commerce, £87,050; Miscellaneous Services, £146,370; War Services, £205,960- agreed to. 
Commonwealth Railways. 

 Proposed vote, £125,380. 
 I ask the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  whether this item includes any of the expenditure to be incurred in constructing a line from Red Hill to Port Augusta or whether that expenditure  is  provided for under a separate bill? 
The Commonwealth railways use  a  good deal of petrol, and I ask the Leader of the Government whether the department obtains its supplies from the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, or elsewhere? . 
[3.3].  -  There is a general rule that all Commonwealth departments shall, as far as possible, obtain their supplies from the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited; but I cannot answer off-hand the honorable senator's question. 
 The Leader of the Government will recollect that an agreement was made by the Commonwealth with the Western Australian Government that on the completion of the transcontinental line from Port Augusta to "Kalgoorlie, the State Government would lay down a standard gauge line from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle. This the Western Australian Government has never attempted- to do. I ask the Leader of the Government whether the agreement has' lapsed or whether there is any prospect of its fulfilment by the State Government. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [3.5].  -  I am not aware that any agreement was entered into. A statement was made by a former Premier of Western Australia that a broad gauge line would be constructed between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle on the completion  of the transcontinental line, but so far as I am aware no agreement was entered into between the two governments. 
I am glad that this point has been raised. I have frequently heard the statement made that an agreement was entered into between the two governments, but although I was a member of the State Parliament at the time, and have an excellent memory, I cannot recollect any such agreement having been made. I welcome the statement of the Leader of the Senate, which I entirely confirm, that Western Australia did not enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth. It passed a bill to lay down a broadgauge line when the money was available, the meaning of the phrase "when the money is available " being, I take it, that it should be made available by the Commonwealth free of charge or interest. 
Proposedvote agreed to. 
Postmaster-'General's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £2,379,080. 
I direct the attention of the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLachlan)  to the fact that the citizens of Brisbane are still anxious for the provision of a hotter type of post office than they have at the present time. The matter has been brought before Minister after Minister, but without result. I invite the honorable senator to visit Brisbane, to inspect the surroundings of the Brisbane General Post Office, and to decide for himself whether a more adequate building should not be supplied. At Goulburn there is a post office which was erected as far back as 1880, yet its appearance compares more than favourably with the Brisbane General Post Office. 
Surely I am entitled to mention these matters. The Brisbane post office is a. wretched structure. 
I am glad to hear that. I hope that, as a result of the inspection, the honorable senator will begin the erection of a new post office 'building in Queen-street in keeping with the other imposing buildings. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Northern Territory. 

 Proposed vote, £32,890, agreed to. 
Federal Capital Territory. 

 Proposed vote, £56,410. 
A few days ago I addressed a question to the Leader of the Government concerning the parks and gardens of Canberra. 
I object to the Leader of the Government trying to mislead the Senate. Wages and salaries for which this item makes provision are paid to men employed in these gardens. 
The honorable senator will be in order in discussing the amount provided for the payment of caretakers of gardens, but he is not entitled to enter into a general discussion concerning the provision of parks and gardens at Canberra. 
The honorable senator will not be in order in seeking to reply to something that was said on a previous occasion concerning an item for which no provision is made in this bill. 
The fact that the honorable senator has not done so does not entitle him to disregard the Standing Orders by which I must be guided. 
The honorable senator is not in order in following that line, of discussion. 
Strictly speaking the honorable senator is not entitled to do so. I have allowed him some latitude since the proposed vote includes the provision for wages and salaries, but I ask him now to confine his remarks strictly tothe item. 
I suggest to the honorable senator that no good purpose can be served by discussing the subject further. 
The honorable senator is again out of order. The subject which he is now discussing is also irrelevant. 
I again remind the honorable senator that the subject he is discussing is irrelevant to the bill. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Papua. 

 Proposed vote, £14,770. 
.- Will the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  explain the item " grant of equivalent of customs duty (but not including primage) on Papuan rubber imported into Australia, £3,745". 
[3.21]. - A duty is imposed on rubber imported into Australia, and to assist the Papuan rubber industry, a refund of duty is made to the Administrator of Papua, who passes it on to the planters. That is done to give them preference in the Australian market. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Norfolk Island, £750 ; Refunds of Revenue, £500,000; and Advance to Treasurer £1,500,000  -  agreed  to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
 When the bill was in committee, I endeavoured to obtain some information concerning the provision of additional parks and gardens in Canberra, but as the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  did not reply I propose to take this opportunity to discuss it. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - As the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  states, this bill provides for the payment of salaries and wages, and does not appropriate money for the provision of parks and gardens. I therefore rule that the honorable senator is not entitled to discuss the subject on this bill. 
 Then I shall raise it on the adjournment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time 
It has been the practice in this Senate for some considerable time, when bills of a cognate character are presented, for the Minister and honorable senators to debate all of them on the motion for the second-reading of the first bill. That practice may be followed on this occasion. 
.  - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Customs Tariff Validation Bill is to validate the collections of duty under the tariff proposals of the 6th December, 1934, until the 30th November, 1935. 
Section 226 of the Customs Act 1901-1930 reads- 
No proceeding whether against an officer or otherwise for anything done for the protection of the revenue in relation to any tariff or tariff alteration proposed in Parliament shall except as mentioned under the next section be commenced before the close of the session in which such tariff or tariff alteration is proposed. 
Under this section it was necessary that the tariff proposals should either be ratified or validated during the session in which the tariff alterations were proposed. For some years there has been only one session in a parliament. Thus section 226 did not operate if a tariff was passed during the life of the Parliament. 
In 1934 the following words were added to the section: -  " or before the expiration of six months after such tariff or tariff alteration is proposed, whichever first happens. 
The new section became operative as from the 1st January, 1935. The effect of the additional words is that, unless the proposals are passed by both Houses of Parliament within six months of their introduction, importers who have paid duty at rates higher than those provided by the existing Customs Tariff can issue writs for the recovery of the extra duty paid at the higher rate, and the department would have no legal defence. It is obvious that steps must be taken to protect the revenue. This course would not have been necessary but for the absence from Australia of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  who is on a most important mission to the United Kingdom. The Government considers that it is quite in order to ask the Senate to validate the collection under the schedule until sufficient time can be given by both Houses to debate fully the proposals. 
The Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Validation Bill ensures that the amendments proposed to be made to the Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Act 1933-1934 by the exchange adjustment proposals of the 6th December, 1934, shall continue to operate until the 30th November, 1935, that is, for the same period as the ordinary customs tariff proposals are being validated. The amendments proposed to the Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Act 1933-1934 were necessitated by the amendments proposed by customs tariff proposals of the 6th December, 1934. Consequently, whatever action is being taken in connexion with the ordinary customs tariff proposals should be taken in connexion with the exchange adjustment proposals. 
The Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Validation Bill validates the collections of duty on certain  Canadian  products until the 30th November, 1935, that is, for the same period as the customs tariff proposals of the 6th December,  1934,  are being validated. The CanadianAustralian trade agreement provides that certain margins of preference shall be retained. Owing to thetariff alterations proposed on the 6th December, 1934, it is necessary to amend some rates specified in the Canadian-Australian trade agreement. Whilst the tariff proposalsare operating it is imperative, in order that our agreement with Canada shall not be broken, to maintain the duties now operating against Canada. The customs tariff proposals are being validated up to the 30th November, 1935. Consequently, the Canadian preference proposals should also be validated up to that date. 
I suggest that we need not, at this stage, discuss the contents of the schedules to which reference has been made. The 
Prime Minister is at present in Great Britain on a most important mission -which has a direct bearing upon the margins of preference given to Great Britain under our tariff proposals. The attitude of the Government may be affected by the success or failure of that mission. It may be necessary to modify certain tariff proposals in order to conduct negotiations with the Governments of other countries with the object of securing a market overseas for our primary products. 
It is regrettable that we have thus early to depart from the provisions of the act as amended recently. All I need say in defence of this course, is that an extraordinary set of circumstances has arisen threatening the economic fabric of the Commonwealth, and unless we take measures to safeguard the interests of our primary producers we may find ourselves in a very grave position. The only criticism that can be offered is that, on the first occasion when a tariff schedule had been brought down since the amendment of the law, we have to depart from the principles there laid down, but  I  put it to the Leader of the Opposition that in the circumstances which I have mentioned this course is inevitable. 
.- I  do not intend to ask for the adjournment of the debate or to delay the passage of these bills. The Government desires to cancel, its responsibility to the country in respect of the validation of tariff schedules within the time limit imposed by a recent amendment of the act, and to get into recess as quickly as possible. The Commonwealth has been, for many years, definitely committed to the protectionist policy in order to encourage the development and expansion of Australian industries. The evasion by the Government of its obligation to validate the tariff schedules brought down some months ago is a serious matter. "When  Senator Colebatch  adorned this chamber  he  was very insistent that all tariff schedules should be validated within three months. I informed him that if he would extend the term to six months, I would support an amendment of the act to that effect. The act was so amended, and it now requires all tariff schedules to be passed by Parliament within six months of their being tabled. The schedules covered by these bills were laid on the table several months ago, but  Parliament has not had an opportunity to discuss them. Within the last few weeks other schedules were introduced in the House of Representatives, and the purpose of these bills ia to validate collections under them. I want to know why the Government will not allow its tariff schedule to run the gauntlet of discussion in this Parliament. I realize that it would prove to be an apple of discord among the supporters of the Government, for, unlike honorable senators on this side who stand foursquare for Australian industries, honorable senators opposite are divided in their opinions. The Government is endeavouring to escape behind a smoke screen. It knows that when the Senate meets again after the recess the ranks of the Opposition will be thinned, and that there will not be many on this side to join the discontents among the followers of the Government. I am reminded of the tariff fight which has continued for more than  30  years. In the early days of the federation a number of great Australians made it possible for a man to earn a decent living in this country. The greatest statesmen of that time were protectionists. I know that  Sir George  Reid and others were free traders, but, the industries of this country have been built up by following a policy not of free trade, but of protection. I remember the great battle fought by the Melbourne  Age  in the interests of the secondary industries of Australia. Notwithstanding that it knows that the progress of this country is due largely to the industries which have been built up here under a protective tariff, the present Government asks us to validate a schedule containing about  180  alterations of customs duties. Some of those alterations of duty may affect vitally a number of Australian industries, but we are not allowed to discuss them. We are on the eve of a recess of six months, or even longer. The Scullin Government has been criticized freely in regard to its tariff policy, but that Government provided for the validation of tariff schedules within six months of their being laid before Parliament 
This tariff schedule has been in operation for several months, and if validated, will continue in operation for several months more before Parliament can discuss it. The manufacturers of Australia know . that I have always stood four-square for protecting the industries of Australia. When I was a Minister in the Scullin Government their representatives crowded about me in the corridors of this building but now, like grasshoppers, they disappear at my approach. What has happened? Has some sinister influence been at work? Is it true that the Government has acted at the dictation of some outside authority - possibly Soviet Russia - to the detriment of Australian manufacturing industries? Why cannot the information on which the Government acted see the light of day? I suspect insidious propaganda, because I am convinced that the tariff schedule of the present Government, which this bill seeks to validate, constitutes a menace to the industries of this country. I cannot see how we can hope to develop Australia unless we foster its industries. The fiscal policy of the present Government enables goods made in other countries by cheap labour to be sold in our warehouses and shops, while Australian men and women walk the streets looking for jobs. It is wrong. Why, in the name of Heaven, cannot our young men and young women find work in the land of their birth? The reason is the encouragement given to the importation of goods made in foreign countries. Only this week we dealt with legislation to amend our immigration laws with the object of making it easier to keep undesirable people out of this country. What sense is there in keeping them out if we allow goods made by them to come in and cause unemployment among our own people? Why not be consistent, and allow not only these products of cheap labour to enter our country, but also those slaves of industry who manufacture them? For Heaven's sake let us be honest ! The Government has not been fair to Australian industries. Australia has a protectionist Prime Minister, but the Acting Prime Minister is a free trader. Between them they have -let Australia down. I am reminded of the story of the old man and his son who were travelling with an ass. Between them they let the ass fall into the water, and it was drowned. Had the Government allowed its tariff schedule to run the gauntlet of discussion in Parliament it could, at least, have said that it had received a mandate to alter the duties, and, unquestionably, its proposals would have been passed since the Government has a majority in both Houses. The only reason why the Government is afraid to submit its proposals to Parliament is that it knows that they are not in the best interests of Australia. I shall vote against the bill, as will the members of my party. 
I regret that the Government has decided practically to validate the whole of the tariff, but my reasons for objecting to its action are unlike those advanced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes).  I was one of those who, with members of the present Ministry, including the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator McLachlan),  fought hard to secure an alteration of the Customs Act to provide that tariff schedules must be dealt with by the Parliament within six months of the date when they were laid on the table. The Postmaster-General was one of the champions in the fight, and, fortunately, the necessary amending legislation was passed. Previously, tariff schedules bad been introduced and allowed to operate for eighteen months or two years, without ratification by either branch of the legislature. When the Customs Act was altered in this respect, I commended the Government on the fact that a good deal had been done to ensure to the Senate power over tariff legislation. The benefits of that act compelled the Government to bring down this measure. I do not know the reason for the Government's haste to go into recess. I do not agree to tariff proposals being put into operation until they have been considered in detail and ratified by the Parliament. I am sorry that it appears to be necessary to give the Government a blank cheque on this occasion; but I hope that it will not again make such a request in connexion with tariff schedules. 
.- I endorsed the action of the Government in presenting a revised schedule last year covering certain goods imported into Australia. It provided for a considerable reduction of rates of duty as compared with those imposed under the notorious schedule introduced some years ago by another Ministry. The Government with which  Senator Barnes  was associated increased duties, and in many cases doubled them; it also imposed prohibitions. 
I am glad to find that, on recommendations of the Tariff Board, certain reductions of duty have been effected. I take it .that I may refer to the schedule, because the tariff and the schedule are virtually one and the same thing. I shall bring under the notice of the Senate one or two important reductions that have been made. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J.  lynch). - I uphold the point of order. If one honorable senator were permitted to refer to individual items m which he is particularly interested, the same liberty would have to be extended to all ; apart from that, the Standing Orders are distinctly against the practice. The object of the bill is merely to validate the collection of duties. 
I submit that I cannot speak intelligently on the second reading of the bill if I may not refer to the schedule, but I think that I can refer to it without infringing your ruling. 
I must explain what the schedule means. Certain im portant alterations of duties have been made, and surely I may be permitted to mention how injurious certain duties have proved to both the consumers and the local manufacturers. 
I do not desire any preferential consideration in this matter, but I claim the right to deal with the bill intelligently. The word "tariff" in this bill means ' the items in the schedule. We are now asked to validate the tariff, because the Government has found on inquiry through the agency of the Tariff Board that it is essential in the best interests of the community to alter certain rates of duty. In order to ascertain whether or not the Government was justified in accepting the board's recommendations, one must read the reports of the. board and compare them with the schedule, item by item. 
I am trying to show the reasons why we should validate the tariff, and why the views expressed on the opposite side of the chamber should be opposed. On reading the Tariff Board's reports, I found page after page of evidence given by those interested in imports - and much of it was agreed to by the representatives of Australian manufacturers - to the effect that the duties imposed under the tariff a few years ago, which Parliament had no chance to consider for two years, were absolutely unnecessary. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator the Hon. Herbert Hays).  - The point  raised by the honorable senator was practically decided by the  President  a few moments ago. The honorable senator may refer in a general way to the tariff schedule in order to show why in his opinion the collection of these duties should or should not be validated but he is not entitled to discuss the tariff in detail. 
I am not attempting to discuss the tariff in detail nor have I referred to any specific duty. The Leader of the Opposition was allowed to indulge in generalities, and I . think I should be permitted to reply to him. I understand quite as well as  Senator Daly  does the meaning of the word " collection". If I had referred directly to any item in the tariff schedule, I could have understood a point of order being raised, but I did not, nor did I intend to do so. I am aware that the Senate is anxious to complete the business before it. I shall therefore content myself with the statement that I approve very heartily of the action taken by , this Government last year, which has enabled the Minister to-day to bring down this bill. I support the second reading. 
It is to be regretted that it should have been necessary so soon after the original alteration was made to bring down this bill, but I do not think that anything else could have been done in the circumstances. 
In view of the circumstance that trade treaties are being negotiated, and that we were similarly affected in our attitude On the sulphur question this morning, I do not think that any action could be taken in this matter other than to postpone the ratification of the tariff as proposed. I hope, however, that the Government does not intend to take this as an excuse for proposing similar extensions in the future. While I support this measure because the circumstances are abnormal, I shall by no means be prepared necessarily to support a further extension. This bill simply provides that a specific schedule shall be extended for a specific time and there is no intention, to alter the original proviso generally. I shall therefore support it. 
.  -  in reply.  - I re-echo the statement just made by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  that the . circumstances of this case are abnormal. They are abnormal for reasons which I could not disclose when we were dealing with sulphur this morning, and which I do not propose now to divulge. A wide margin is left between the British and the foreign tariff rates. I have already referred to that matter, and to certain efforts that are being made overseas. It is not the intention of the Government to, in short, ignore the law to which they were parties, and which they brought into existence ins 1934, requiring that this class of legislation shall be submitted from time to time when it is desired that the validation of the collection of duties under a customs schedule shall be extended for' a period of more than six months. We do not intend to pursue that course. We have taken action in this case only because of special reasons. We were parties to the restoration of the power of the Senate to control the tariff, and it is not likely that we would do anything to violate our own legislation. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  suggested that the Government has at its head, as Acting Prime Minister, a free trader. To that suggestion, I take strong exception. Dr.Earle Page is responsible for his share in the tariff that was passed during the regime of the Bruce-Page Government, and is partly responsible for the schedule to which this bill relates. Any one who examines the duties in that schedule will recognize that it is quite unfair to suggest that  Dr. Earle  Page would expose the secondary industries to a direct or even a flank attack by means of the tariff. The Leader of the Opposition, prophesied that the duties in this schedule would have dire consequences to the artisans of this country. May I remind him of the. dire consequences which certain movements made by a government of which he was a member had upon employment? The depression which followed may not have been due altogether to those movements; but I point out that the duties in this schedule, which was submitted last December, instead of increasing unemployment, have had a contrary effect. Unemployment, from the date of their imposition, has greatly diminished and the position to-day is very satisfactory. I think that the absence of those complaints which the Leader of the Opposition suggested should be made is dueto the fact that the manufacturing industries themselves realize that it is a fair thing. 
I feel that I am in duty bound to reply to the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition. The whole schedule is based on Tariff Board reports and Tariff Board reports alone. Honorable senators will have ample opportunity in August or September next - I do not know when it is proposed that we shall re-assemble - to discuss in detail every item in the schedule and to voice their opinions regarding its usefulness to Australia or otherwise. I stress the point that the circumstances leading te the introduction of this bill are abnormal. The international trade position of the world is extraordinary, and if we failed to make proper provision for the marketing of our primary products and also for our manufacturing industries, they would have to endure their Gethsemane. The principles I have enunciated with regard to this bill apply to all three and I do not propose to discuss . them further unless information is sought by any honorable senator. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its 'remaining stages without requests or debate. 
The present route from Port Augusta to Adelaide is circuitous with steep grades and sharp curves, taking practically a round of the clock to traverse, though the actual direct distance over level country is rather less than that between Albury and Melbourne, which "Victorian trains cover to-day in four and a half hours. A State railway on the 5-ft. 3-in. gauge already traverses more than half the distance between Adelaide and Port Augusta on the direct route, and under the agreement referred to, the Commonwealth has the right to have a third rail laid on. this track, and to build a new standard gauge line across the remaining gap of 82 miles, so that transcontinental sleeper trains may run right into Adelaide. The time saved in this way, together with adjustments to the Western Australian time-table, and a speeding up on the transcontinental line would enable a whole day to be saved between Western Australia and the Eastern States. The agreement provides for a number of ancillary things concerning which I need not trouble honorable senators at this stage. I may, however, state that there is no desire on the part of the Commonwealth to interfere with the rights of South Australia in any way. That was made plain at the conference on Friday last. The present proposal has been brought forward in the honest belief that it will mean a saving to taxpayers. 
I share the honorable senator's view. The State Government contends that the existing line fromRed Hill to Adelaide shows a profit over running costs, but not including interest, of approximately £28,000, and that the Commonwealth has no right to compel it to put in the third rail from Red Hill to Adelaide.  A fortiori  it might contend that we have no right to construct a direct line between Port Augusta and Red Hill on the proposed Commonwealth route. It is not willing to sell the Salisbury to Red Hill section to the Commonwealth for conversion, and is not willing to co-operate under the agreement. 
Some years ago the Commonwealth Public Works Committee made an examination of the route, and in its report criticized somewhat scathingly the transcontinental railway service, particularly to the breaks of gauge between Terowie and Port Augusta. 
We feel that something should be done to straighten out the difficulties. But we do not wish to do anything contrary to the views of the State Government. We believe that the agreement is still valid, and we desire to obtain the fullest cooperation of the State in the settlement of this difficulty, rather than a reluctant acceptance of a legal agreement. 
In view of the objection to the proposal for a third rail into the Adelaide railway station, and the State Government's opposition to the proposed purchase of the Salisbury-Red Hill section, we are prepared to offer what is hoped will prove a satisfactory solution of the present disagreement. We propose that the Commonwealth should extend its standard gauge line from Port Augusta southwards only so far as Port Prie, a distance of 56 miles, and that the South Australian Government should extend its 5 ft. 3 in. gauge railway now ending at Red Hill, northwards so far as Port Pirie, a distance of approximately 26 miles, thus making Port Pirie the break of gauge station. If the portion of the Melbourne-Adelaide train reserved for Western Australian passengers were run through to Port Pirie, passengers could then transfer to the Commonwealth transcontinental line train there, instead of at Port Augusta, and on the eastward journey passengers would on leaving the transcontinental line train at Port Pirie, step right into the Melbourne train. 
The Commonwealth earnestly hopes that the South Australian Government will accept this modified proposal, for the double purpose of transforming the worst section of the East- West line into one of the best, and for the provision of employment during the coining winter. In  order  that no time may be lost, the Commonwealth proposes to commence the construction of the new line from the Port Augusta end, under the authority of the existing agreement.  Meanwhile,  we are prepared to enter into a new agreement with South Australia on the lines suggested, and even though some months must elapse before such a new agreement amending the present agreement could be ratified, South Australia would still have ample time to complete the small section of the line between Red Hill and Port Pirie by the time the Commonwealth reached the latter point. 
To save delay and avoid disappointment to men looking for employment, I ask the House to pass the bill in its present form, accepting the assurance of the Government of its willingness to amend promptly both,the bill and the agreement on the lines indicated if it can secure the co-operation of the South Australian Government. 
We contend that we have its full consent already, and we intend to proceed with the construction of the railway from Port Augusta to Port Pirie. In the meantime, if South Australia does not agree to the proposal, the Government will ask the State Government to fulfill its obligations under the old agreement. This disagreement may result in litigation, a contingency which I hope may be avoided. 
No. We have examined the statement made by the Prime Minister, and find that all he said was that the South Australian Government would be again consulted. That consultation has taken place. There was a conference on Friday last in Melbourne with the Acting Premier of South Australia and the . Minister for Railways and Works in that State. Men of common sense should.be able to settle this difficulty without litigation. I hope that the Commonwealth and the States will come together in the interests of the travelling public, and of the good name of the railways of Australia. I have heard from overseas travellers, and those who visit the gold-fields and inland districts, more criticism of the section of railway between Port Augusta and Terowie than of any other line in Australia. 
-I do not wish to enter into a disoussion of that subject now. My desire is to do justice to the taxpayers of the Commonwealth and of the State. I can say definitely that, if the Commonwealth purchases the Salisbury to Red Hill line from the State, there will be an actual, not merely a bookkeeping, saving of £43,000 in the interest burden now borne by the State. 
.- ' Some years ago the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works visited South Australia, and inquired into the construction of this railway, and as a result of its investigation, recommended ' that the line be built. The Minister should approach the State Government and urge it to discontinue its  parish-pump  outlook, and view this matter from a national stand-point In the event of war, the present breaks of gauge would cause vital delays. The more direct route is much to be preferred to the present tortuous and tedious journey. 
 The introduction of this bill raises a vast number of considerations, concerning which I am sure the Minister could have given us more particulars had time permitted. I realize that we are within a few hours of recess, and therefore I shall be as brief as possible. Before I proceed to discuss the bill itself, I should like the Minister to say whether, if the alternative scheme mentioned by him is undertaken, the Federal Government will bear the coat of the construction by the State Government of the line from Port Pirie to Red Hill. 
I should say the cost would be nearer £250,000. 
The desirability or otherwise of constructing the line referred to in this measure has been discussed for many years. In my opinion the alternative proposal is  preferable  to that embodied in this measure; but, as it is purely problematical, it cannot properly be discussed now. The fact which we have to face is that, despite conferences between the Commonwealth and the State over many months, it has been found impossible hitherto to devise any scheme to  which both  governments will assent. We cannot assume, therefore, that  this last-moment  proposal will be accepted by the State, and for that reason I shall proceed to deal with the bill. 
I cannot say that I have read it in detail, although I have probably been acquainted with its contents. I do not suppose that any honorable senator has read all that has been written on this subject during the last fifteen years. There have been many reports on this proposal., among them being one by a committee, presided over by  Sir William  Goodman, which condemns the scheme. The first argument advanced in support of the bill is that the construction of this railway would conduce greatly to the comfort of passengers, many of whom are oversea visitors and big commercial men in Australia. There can be no question that the breaks of gauge at Port Augusta and Terowie are most inconvenient. Of all the portions of the trans-Australian railway system which have not yet been standardized on the 4-ft.81/2-in. gauge, the section between Port. Augusta and Terowie is probably the most in need of conversion. I think that all honorable senators will admit that, in respect of the comfort of passengers, and rapidity of transport, the construction of the new line would effect a great improvement. That argument in favour of the bill is well based. 
It has been urged, in the second place, that the construction of this railway would add to our means of defence, but I cannot see that that argument is sound. In my opinion, it is far more important to have a strong defence force, with a welltrained personnel, than to have the means to carry troops rapidly from place to place. The existence of a properly trained force is necessary before schemes to transport it are considered. In places the proposed line would be within two miles of Spencer's Gulf, and if not actually within range from ships in the gulf, it certainly would be in danger from bombing seaplanes. 
HUGHES. - I agree that an enemy would first seek to destroy our cities. 
In that event numbers of city dwellers might use the trains to visit the country, for the first time in their lives. 
If the railway line were destroyed, the train would.be of little use except as a place  in which to sleep. In Lord Cromer's book on Abbas II., the last Khedive of Egypt, he gives an account of intrigues between the Khedive and Abdul Hamid, Sultan of Turkey. This passage is particularly interesting - 
At the present moment (1915) it is perhaps of some interest to record that about this time I was approached on the subject of allowing a railway to be constructed from Syria to Port Said ... I discouraged the proposal and mentioned in the course of conversation that if at any time a railway was constructed to connect the two countries the line would, of course, have to be laid along its whole length within 100 yards of the seashore,so as to be well under the fire of the guns of the British fleet. I never heard anything more of the proposal. 
Because the proposed line in South Australia will be at some points close to the coast, I suggest that the argument that it is a defence measure is not valid. 
HUGHES. - When was their report issued? 
Since then, there have been great developments in connexion with bombing aeroplanes, and gunfire from vessels at sea. We cannot accept to-day views expressed 15 or 20 years ago in regard to these matters. 
The third argument advanced in favour of the line is that it will provide employment for many persons who are now out of work. Of course, every member of this chamber has the utmost sympathy  with the unemployed, but we should consider how to provide the largest amount of employment. In the GovernorGeneral's Speech, delivered on the 17th February, 1932, the following passage occurred : - 
It is impossible, at the present time, to proceed with large programmes of public works. The great majority of wage-earners must necessarily bc dependent upon private industry, whether, primary or secondary, for their livelihood. My advisers therefore, regard it as of cardinal importance that all possible steps should be taken to stimulate private industry, and all proposed legislation should bc viewed in the light of this consideration. 
I claim that the problem is substantially the same now as it was then, and I do not hesitate to say that more employment and more fruitful results would be obtained by reducing taxation and allowing private individuals to give more work, than for this line of railway to be constructed by a government department. I am in favour of the encouragement of private enterprise, because I believe that that method is more profitable to the community and affords a greater amount of employment. 
I invite the attention of honorable senators to the fact that, since the construction by the Commonwealth of the Grafton-Kyogle line, heavy loss has been experienced by the Queensland railways on the old line through Wallangarra. The Commonwealth line has succeeded at the expense of the State railway, but the community is saddled with the extra cost of operating the two lines which serve substantially the same country. 
They were of a most fragmentary nature. It cannot be said that my opposition to this bill is prompted by the desire to restrict employment. I was, and still am, in favour of the completion of Parliament House, Adelaide, which would mean an expenditure of about £250,000, and would benefit the unemployed. Yet, at n recant meeting of the Australian Labour party, a motion was carried, by a very small majority, in opposition to that proposal. If the line were standardized on the Quorn-Terowie route, much employment would be provided. This line would prove of great convenience, and it would be more valuable from the defence point of view. Strategically, the inner -route would be the safer, and would have to be used if the other were destroyed. 
I now propose to state the main arguments that can be advanced in opposition to the Government's proposal. I understand that the alternative scheme would cost £450,000 less than the proposal in the bill. Owing to the difficulty in disposing 'of our primary products, because of the heavy fall in the price of wool and the low prices received for wheat, meat and' nearly every other primary product, we shall probably experience a large falling-off of federal revenue in the coming year. On the other hand, grants to wheat-growers, larger payments to old-age pensioners and other extra expenditure, will raise our outgoings to a higher point in some cases than ever before. During the coming year, I think that we shall lose a great deal of revenue that we are receiving this year. 
I shall touch upon that point later. 
Yes ; I am trying to consider it as an Australian, and a man of average intelligence. We should have regard to influences which are likely to render a great many of our railway lines out of date in a comparatively few years. 
In the second place, opposition to the proposal embodied in the bill comes from the South Australian Government. Whether it is voiced by members of the State ministry or  Sir William  Goodman's committee, there is general antagonism to the proposal. The Minister in charge of the measure  (Senator 
McLachlan) has been in conference with these gentlemen, and he can vouch for the correctness of my statement. It is not desirable to force a State to agree to a scheme which it does not wish to accept. The bill would mean that if the State does not agree to the alternative proposal, the original proposition will be forced upon it whether it likes it or not. That is not a desirable state of affairs. It is not wise for the Commonwealth to override a State. Such action would inevitably lead to hopeless bickering after the line had been put into operation and if there were dual control at the Adelaide railway station, there would be little chance of the two authorities working well together. 
I do not admit that; but, even if it were so, that railway was desired by Queensland, whilst the present proposal is being forced on South Australia against  the  wish of the people of that State. If this line is constructed in antagonism to South Australia, the unfriendly relations will continue. The Senate is primarily a States house, and it should see that the States are not coerced in these matters. Personally, I hope that some agreement will be reached between the Commonwealth and South Australia, but I shall not take any part in coercing my State into agreement with a proposal which it claims it is not bound to accept. 
Quite so ; but I presume that that could happen' only if unification were brought about. I do not imagine that the Commonwealth Government would enter State territory and build a line there without the States' consent. 
Under either proposal, the railway would be brought to Port Pirie. I do not see that the defence question arises, as both lines would come within a couple of miles of the coast. I should like to have had an opportunity to check the depths of water at the head of Spencer's Gulf, to ascertain definitely whether a man-of-war could approach within sufficient range of the line to destroy it by either direct or indirect shell fire. Although a chart exists, it is not available in Canberra. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 7.15 p.m. 

I propose now very briefly to deal with the third argument: the legal aspect of this matter. If honorable senators will look at the Agreement Act of 1925, and particularly at the act of 1930, they will find that their preambles simply bristle with " whereases ". In this particular bill, the fourth " whereas " of the preamble reads that - 
Whereas all such doubts have now been removed and there is no doubt that the consent of the said State to the construction of the said railway by the Commonwealth i» still in force and effect . . . 
Why, if there is no doubt, is there need to recite the fact? I venture to say that there is doubt - that at any rate the State Government will say that this agreement, which was arrived at about ten years ago, has become invalid because of the ten years that have been allowed to elapse without this particular portion of it having been put into effect. There is also a reasonable possibility of doubt - and I have not the slightest doubt myself - that if negotiations between the two sovereign authorities fail there will be an application to the court to restrain the Commonwealth from proceeding in this matter. One can imagine what a bad effect that would have. I urge that this matter be composed by agreement and not by coercion. 
I come now to the fourth argument. It relates to the general subject of railway extensions and opens up a tremendous vista which I can only touch in very brief fashion. 
It means an extension of the actual mileage of railways in the State. The whole trend to-day is away from fixed lines and towards, first of all, motor transport, and secondly, the air. We have been facing a big problem in recent years. I do not want to give the impression that I think all railways could or should be abruptly discarded if that were possible. We have an enormous system that has cost the States a vast sum and there can be no idea of this being suddenly relinquished. But to maintain our railway system - to try and get time by passing transport acts to restrain mobile transport - is one thing and to construct expensive additional lines is quite another. Honorable senators may have read in the Victorian press about three months ago a very interesting and able survey of the transport problem of Victoria by  Mr. Kent  Hughes, who, at the time, was Minister for Transport in the Argyle Government. He put it that a certain number of the railway lines of the State would have to go. That is the position he had to face. The whole trend at the present time is away from fixed lines towards something more mobile. In all the southern States, at least - Western Australia, Victoria,  and my own State - if it had not been for transport acts we should have had the railways running at far greater loss than they are to-day. It is simply by governmental intervention that it is possible for the railways to carry on, even with the unsatisfactory results with which they are carrying on to-day. We have to face the fact that, except for long haulage, there is going to be an increasing trend towards mobile transport, and also towards the air. That answers the interjection of  Senator Daly  before dinner: "Does not the honorable senator think that every one would travel by road to Port Augusta?" Everybody would do so if the road towards Port Augusta through Wilmington and Melrose were in a better condition than it is. Many do, but the Transport Board prevents motorists plying for hire from carrying passengers between Port Augusta and Adelaide except on the one day of the week when there is no rail competition.  Mr. Kent  Hughes faced this problem, and we, too, have to face it. It is most essential that we should not spend a great deal of money on a system that will be simply adding more money to what has already been expended without in any way improving the collective revenues of the Commonwealth and the States. I have here a long quotation from a speech by Professor Shann, but do not propose to read it in full. Speaking at Adelaide, he said - 
Sometimes when 1 hear men in high places talking of spending scores of millions on reconditioning the railways - railways already groaning under excessive capital accounts - I have a desperate sense that our leaders arc stumbling along with brains benumbed by habit . . . Instead of building railways, we should be building aerodromes and equipping them on the most efficient plans known. Our preparations for civil progress will at the same time give us defensive strength, for an air-using Australia, well furnished with aerodromes along her habitable coast, would be well nigh impregnable. 
A year or two ago I read in a book entitled,  The New Russia,  eight talks broadcast by well-known men, including  Sir Bernard  Pares, H. G. Wells, and H. R. Knickerbocker. Speaking on transport in Russia,  Mr. Frank  Owen said - 
Here is a land which covers a sixth of the land surface, of the world, which stretches in an unbroken line from the Baltic to the Yellow Sea, from the Arctic Circle almost to the mountain frontier of India ... It possesses only 77,000 kilometres of railway, and even the Five-year Plan will only add another 8,000. 
Seventy-seven thousand kilometres is about 50,000 miles.  Mr. Owen  went on to say - 
But if the railways remain a severe handicap to their progress, they have made huge strides in the very latest development of travel - the air services . . . Russia is a land in many ways ideally suited to flying, a land so vast that flying is the only way in which the barrier of space can be overcome. 
In its vast spaces, Russia is very similar to the land in which we live - 
Her other modes of transport, railways, motors, ships, will bo accelerated and extended in the next few years. But in the real sense of conquering distance, Russia will miss out a complete stage of development and go direct into the transport realm of the future, into the air. 
Will our 5-ft. 3-in gauge lines in Victoria and the rest of those in South Australia ever be unified? 
In my previous view, I always inclined towards the construction of this particular portion of railway from Port Augusta to Adelaide. I realized the discomforts of the present arrangement, and was one of those who believed that general unification was a good thing. 1 was not in Parliament when the act of 1930 was passed, but I have expressed this view and have held it up till quite a recent day. I heard that there was a chance of some unification, and I thought that this was definitely the best point from which to start. 
But at least three things have happened since the beginning of this year that have made me very much alter my views with regard to this proposal at the present time. The first of these is the general European situation, which does not justify any considerable and unnecessary spending of our money in the position in which we now are. The second is the heavy fall in wool prices and the prices of our primary products generally, which has become accentuated, and clarified as the summer has gone on. The third is the hostility of the State Government. Fourthly, I cannot sec how we can pass a bill like this, with an alternative to it, when the bill itself may and will be used as a lever to force, the State to accept one or other of these alternatives. As to the first alternative, the State, through its government, has stated its opposition to it. There is an alternative, but the Slate may not approve of it. In any case, I see no prospect of the State being able to raise £250,000 which, apparently, it will be expected to raise, for building, not a railway that it desires itself, but one which the Commonwealth desires to construct. It cannot afford to do that. 
The Postmaster-General  (Senator McLachlan)  knows that South Australia budgeted for a deficit of something over £900,000 last year, and, speaking from memory, I think the estimated deficit for this year is something between £600,000 and £650,000. How can a State that has had to cut radically, that was hit by the depression at an earlier stage than any other State - and, despite its difficulties, has made a tremendous effort to balance its budget - be expected to put up an extra £250,000 to provide for a scheme which I believe it would prefer to that which, has been laid down but which, after all, is a Commonmon wealth scheme? My opinion is that when this proposal is put up to the State Government it will say that this is the scheme which it prefers, but that it cannot borrow the money to give effect to it and will not be able to do so for some years. 
I think it would be, as the honorable senator suggests, an Australian line, but also a State line. If the alternative, is put to the State, then the Commonwealth, giving the State the alternative, ought to pay for it just as it would pay for the original proposal. I welcome this because for one reason I think it would cost nearly £500,000 less than the other proposal would do. It would also leave only the one break at Port Pirie, instead of two, and the 3-ft. 6-in. gauge would be entirely eliminated. Another point is that Commonwealth control would remain at Port Pirie instead of going to Adelaide. I would welcome it, because the loss which the State would incur would be less than if the proposal embodied in the bill were adopted. That is to say, the traffic which now moves down the eastern line through Quorn and Peterborough would, under this proposal, remain on the 3-ft. 6-in. gauge line to Terowie, where it would be transferred to the 5-ft. 3-in. gauge. 
I regret having detained the Senate at such length. If I have put the case inadequately, it is because I have endeavoured to condense my remarks. I have given what I consider valid arguments against committing ourselves to expenditure which I do not think is justified at present, and which could be more suitably and more economically distributed by private enterprise. At the same time, we should not encourage hostility between the Commonwealth and the State concerned. All through the negotiations South Australia has acted in a friendly  manne., and it should not be forced into a position of open hostility in connexion with a project which I know the Commonwealth Government intends should benefit the Commonwealth and the State concerned. In these circumstances I have no alternative but to oppose the bill in its present form. 
When the 'original bill providing for the construction of a railway from Port Augusta to Red Hill was before the Senate on the 16th December, 1930, I gave the measure my wholehearted support, because, according to the preamble, the line was to be built only if South Australia gave its consent - a consent required under the Constitution. On that occasion  Senator Rae  said - 
Did not Western Australia promise to convert to the standard gauge the railway between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle? 
I replied- 
The Parliament of that State passed a measure authorizing that conversion. Since then, it has passed resolutions urging the Federal Government to carry out the work, so that there should be no break of gauge between Port Augusta and Fremantle. 
Both Houses of the Western Australian Parliament urged the Commonwealth Government to provide the money, and to construct a broad-gauge railway, not only from Port Augusta to Red Hill, but also from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle. When  Senator Rae  said that the State Government should undertake that work, I replied - 
It passed a measure authorizing the work, but in view of the serious effect of federation on Western Australia, the people of that State feel that the financing of the conversion of the gauges is entirely a federal responsibility. I trust tha.t we may regard this bill as an earnest of the Government's intention to undertake that work. 
After referring at some length to the work, I concluded - 
I trust that this legislation will be the forerunner of another measure, wider which the Commonwealth will consent to undertake the conversion to the standard gauge of the existing railway f.rom Kalgoorlie to Fremantle, and thus provide a line without any break of gauge from Red Hill to Fremantle. This is a national responsibility. Both Houses of the Western Australian Parliament have passed a resolution asking the Federal Parliament to do its duty in this respect, and I sincerely trust that this important work will be proceeded with in the near future. 
The policy which I supported in 1930 is that which I am advocating to-day. I urge the Commonwealth Government to adopt the proposal supported by both Houses of the Western Australian Parliament, and thus obviate the breaks of gauge referred to by the Minister. The Commonwealth should find the whole of the money and undertake all the work of providing a broad-gauge railway from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle. Seeing that the Commonwealth Government is anxious to obviate breaks of gauge for defence and national development  purposes, it  should construct a standard-gauge railway at its own expense from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle. In dealing with the measure under the conditions existing to-day I am torn by conflicting emotions. My first desire is to protect the rights of the States and particularly the rights of the weaker States. If the Government can assure me that the South Austraiian Government is prepared to agree to the construction of this line I shall give the measure my whole-hearted support. The Constitution provides that the federal Parliament shall have full power to construct railways within a State, provided that the State concerned gives its consent. I take it that that means the consent of the State at the time the project is under consideration. 
I am not sure of that. The Commonwealth should not take any advantage of legal technicalities. I should like the State to say definitely if it is now agreeable to the construction of the line. 
If the Government can prove that the consent of the South Australian Government is now available, I shall offer no objection. 
In 1930 the ex- Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham),  a gentleman of great legal and political ability, doubted the legality of the undertaking so far as South Australia's consent was concerned. 
No; but he expressed an opinion on the subject. As a strong supporter of the rights of sovereign States, I wish to be assured that the consent of the South Australian Government has been obtained before I support this measure. 
I believe in States honouring their obligations; and during my brief experience in federal politics, I have found that the State governments have honoured their obligations in a manner that might well be emulated by the federal authorities. In view of existing financial and economic circumstances it is the clear and urgent duty of the Commonwealth Government to continue the railway on the standard gauge from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle. 
Considerable discussion occurred on the subject when the original bill was before this chamber and I am entitled to refer to it. I trust that the South Australian Government will approve the construction of the line from Bed Hill to Port Augusta, as by that means railway communication between Western Australia, the eastern States and the Federal Capital would be improved. When I passed through Adelaide a few weeks ago, I read in the  Advertiser  a statement to the effect that  Mr. Lyons  had definitely promised that this railway would not be constructed unless the State Government was a consenting party to the undertaking. 
If the promise was made by  Mr. Lyons,  the 
Ministiy should not proceed with the proposal. 
I have a copy of the original bill for the construction of the railway from Port Augusta to Red Hill. The preamble reads - 
And whereas by the said act of the State of South Australia that State consented to the construction and carrying out by the Commonwealth of the railways and railway works and operations which the Commonwealth by the said agreement undertook to construct and carry out subject to the condition that, if the construction of the said railway from Port Augusta to Bed Hill referred to in the said agreement were not commenced by the Commonwealth within such period (being not less than three years from the date of the commencement of the said act of the State of South Australia) as was notified to the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth by the Premier of the said State within twelve months of the said commencement, the said consent should as regards the said railway be null and void. 
When Parliament passed the bill in December, 1930, it accepted the condition that consent by the State was conditional on the commencement, by the Commonwealth, of the work within the period mentioned. Even if the Premier of South Australia did not notify consent, I should strongly object to the Commonwealth Government oppressing one of the weaker States because of some technical omission on its part. 
I should never, on a technical point, enforce the acceptance by any State of an undertaking that was not approved by the government of that State. Under the Constitution the Commonwealth is empowered to carry out railway construction works and railway extensions in any State with the consent of that State. I should have to be quite satisfied that such consent was unreservedly given before I could vote for any work being put in hand by the Commonwealth Government. 
The preamble to the bill of 1930 states further - 
And whereas the Premier of the said State did not within twelve months of the said commencement notify any period as the period within which the construction and carrying out of the said railway should be commenced: 
And whereas by reason of the fact that the Premier of the said State did not within the said period of twelve months notify the said Prime Minister as aforesaid, doubts have arisen as to whether the consent of the said State to the construction of the said railway by the Commonwealth is still in full force and effect, and it is expedient that those doubts be removed before the commencement of this act. 
That preamble suggested the existence of a doubt as to whether the consent of the State had been given to the proposed federal work. 
I am endeavouring to make clear the view held by South Australia at that time. 
I listened carefully to the interesting and informative speech delivered by the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLachlan)  when moving the second reading, and I did not hear him say anything about the approval of the State having been now obtainable to this legislation. The preamble to the 1930 bill goes on to state - 
And whereas it is desirable that the construction of the said railway should be authorized by the Parliament. 
Then follow the usual clauses of a bill, giving legislative effect to the intention of the Government. 
I have received from the Minister of Railways in South Australia an interesting statement setting out the views of the Government of that State. This document was, I understand, compiled by the Premier. It confirms my previous view that South Australia is not now willing to give its assent to the construction of this line. I desire to see the work proceeded with as soon as possible. I should also like to see the Government put in hand another important railway proposal - a standard gauge line from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle - the construction of which has the approval of both Houses of the Western Australian Parliament. If South Australia is not prepared to consent to this arrangement for the construction of a Commonwealth line from Red Hill to Port Augusta, it is the obvious duty of this Government to proceed with construction at the other end. There will be no occasion for Ministers, to get intoa flurry if the scheme, covered by this bill is not accepted. The Government has a large sum of money at its disposal, and, apparently, it is anxious to spend it in standardizing; railway gauges throughout the Commonwealth. It could not put it to a better use than by expending it on a standard gauge line from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle, thus making it possible for persons to travel in comfort and without break of gauge from Fremantle to the eastern States. The sooner that the Commonwealth Government realizes the importance of this national undertaking the better. It should get on with the job and justify its existence. 
Since the introduction of the bill this afternoon, I have felt a desire to pinch myself to make certain that I was not dreaming, and that visions were not about. This bill is one of the most amazing proposals that has been brought before the Senate for some considerabletime. One wonders if Ministers are somany Rip Van Winkles, and have been asleep for the last ten or fifteen years, or whether they are suffering from some obsession. Having regard to the developments that have taken place in recent years in means of transport, I am amazed that the Government should bring down a bill for railway construction in this year of grace. Railways, like stage coaches, have had their day. They must now make way for other methods' of transport. I am also amazed at the introduction of this proposal for another reason - the unsatisfactory financial position of the Commonwealth. Every State is facing tremendous deficits, and is likely to be facing them for several years. Although Commonwealth finance are supposed to be buoyant, the surplus this year is no guarantee of continued prosperity. 
The estimated cost of the railway provided for in this bill is about £750,000. I am amazed that the Government should endeavour to force on a reluctant State additional expenditure of approximately  £250,000 for the construction of its section under this proposal. It has been argued that the railway will be a convenience to the travelling public. That is true, but I submit that it is a luxury which we cannot afford. I tremble when I think of the troublous times that are ahead of this country unless come extradordinary improvement takes place in our overseas markets. In any case, we must expect grave difficulties for at least two or three years. This certainly is no time for tha Commonwealth to undertake light-heartedly the expenditure of such a large sum of money for what is, after all, a luxury. 
I come now to another reason advanced by the Minister, namely, that this line would be of value as a means of defence. I do not propose to start a discussion on the pros and cons of this proposal from a defence point of view; I merely say that the defence value of the railway would be doubtful. The military mind is largely conservative, and instead of thinking of the last war and the lessons which it taught, military authorities, for the most part, are thinking of the wars that preceded it. In my opinion, we -shall not, in future wars, as in the last war, see "cannon fodder" being transported in trains. Incidentally, we need not worry about that in this country, for we have no army to transport. What is the use of talking about railways for the -carriage of troops to defend this country when we have no troops? If the expenditure of three-quarters of a million pounds on this railway is intended as a means of defence, then I say, "forget it, spend the money on aeroplanes, civil aviation, the training of pilots, and you will get some value for your money ". 
The Minister also urged that the construction of this line would provide employment. I do not deny that; but I submit that the same amount of money could be spent to better purpose and provide more employment. In this age of invention, railways are gradually passing out of use. Were it not for the legislation which has been passed by some of the States of Australia, the railways of this country would be in a much worse financial position than they are now. Motor transport is penalized in every way by the legislation of the States, whilst the heavy duty on petrol imposed by the Commonwealth is a serious handicap. The day of the mechanized vehicle is only dawning. In my opinion, the day of the railway will soon pass, except for certain classes of freight over long distances. Yet, here we are, at this critical time in our history, lightheartedly considering the expenditure of three quarters of a million pounds, and trying to force a reluctant State to incur additional heavy expenditure. I am amazed that this bill has been introduced. In no circumstances could I vote for it. Without meaning to be offensive, 1 say that I consider that in. this enlighened age it is a piece of unutterable folly. 
I propose to support the bill.  Senator Sampson  said that he wondered whether he should pinch himself to find whether or not he was awake. He went on to say that the construction of this line of railway would be a luxury which Australia cannot afford, and that in trying to afford it we would create unemployment. 
I accept that. But, surely, the honorable member's memory is not so short that he has forgotten that only last week he voted for a proposal to put coolie labour on the vessels trading between Tasmania and the mainland, thereby throwing decent Australian seamen out of work in order to provide luxury trips for sea passengers. 
The Navigation Act was designed to protect decent Australian seamen, whereas the proposal for which the honorable senator voted the other day meant more luxury for travellers by the substitution of coolies for- white labour under Australian conditions. We may well thank God that the Industrial Arbitration Act will prevent coolies from making and driving the engines, and from working in the dining saloons of the trains which pass over our railways. When honorable senators tell us that they are amazed that we should consider a proposal for the provision of a luxury  service, I invite them to examine their conscience as I now examine mine in ray last hours in this Senate. I do not believe that the construction of this railway would be a luxury, I regard it as a necessity. 
I admit that the matter has been tinkered with. Early in my political career I visited Melbourne, with a number of others, at the request of the then Premier of South Australia,  Mr. Butler,  to place before the then Prime Minister,  Mr. Bruce,  the claims of South Australia for a grant to compensate that State foi- the disabilities from which" it suffered as a result of federation.  Mr. Bruce  listened attentively to our representations, and eventually the Commonwealth Government agreed to make a grant to South Australia, on condition that a railway line was constructed between Red Hill and Port Augusta. After that, the Scullin Government came into power, and I candidly admit that the matter was held up because of opposition by supporters of the Government to the construction of that railway. I have never wavered in my belief that, if the East-West line is to be kept open, Port Augusta and Adelaide must be connected by a speedier service than now exists. That is the only aspect of this question that concerns me. I agree that the modern mode of transport makes the difficulties of our railway systems almost insuperable, but the fact remains that the taxpayers of Australia have to keep the East- West railway open. That line has now to meet the competition of a speedy motor vessel between Adelaide and Perth, and also motor land transport between Adelaide and Port Augusta. If honorable senators believe that the long stretch of country between Kalgoorlie and Port Augusta should not be served by a railway I could understand their opposition to this bill; but if they knew anything about that country, they would realize that there is no possible chance of the Commonwealth Commissioner of Railways making the eastwest railway pay unless the frightful journey between Port Augusta and Adelaide via Terowie is cut out. As an instance of the tedious nature of that journey, I mention that on his way overseas the Prime Minister left the express on its arrival at Adelaide, made various calls during the morning and lunched at Parliament House. He left Adelaide by motor car about 2.30 p.m., and after attending a reception at Port Pirie arrived at Port Augusta two hours before the train which had left Adelaide at about 10 a.m. It is impossible to compete with motor transport so long as the present circuitous route via Peterborough and Terowie has to be travelled. 
Were I disposed to discuss this matter from a South Australian stand-point, I could inform  Senator Sampson  that there is a strong agitation to link Sydney with Perth by means of a direct line from Port Augusta through Broken Hill. 
Prom the point of view of Australia, and particularly of Australian workmen, it would be better to man the vessels which travel between the mainland and Tasmania with white crews under Australian conditions. From a South Australian and "Victorian point of view the proposal to join Sydney with Port Augusta by rail is a bad one. If the proposal contained in this bill is agreed to, the agitation for the other line will be killed, and the traffic will still pass through the capital cities of Adelaide and Melbourne. I cannot understand the agitation against it. I can only explain it as having the same parochial basis as  Senator Sampson's  objection. Let us take a broad national view of the proposal. We have the lines; we are anxious to link all the States together and increase the possibility of operating the railway systems at something like a reasonable profit. We have heard a great deal about South Australia's rights; but surely that State "has some obligations also, under the contract which was entered into with the Commonwealth. 
Yes. I hold a copy of the South Australian  Hansard  for 1926, when the bill was introduced into the State Parliament for the construction of the north-south railway; the terms upon which the Commonwealth was to construct theRed Hill to Port Augusta line were contained in the bill, and the only reason for any difference of opinion between the various legal authorities of the Commonwealth, and the State was that, on some technical grounds, South Australia might evade its responsibility. South Australia's claim is devoid of morals; the Commonwealth has carried out its obligations, and South Australia should do likewise. 
It has carried out the contract which is the basis of the Port Augusta toRed Hill railway project. The two sovereignties - South Australia and the Commonwealth - made a certain compact; the Commonwealth having carried out its portion of the compact, South Australia should not, on some technical grounds, seek to avoid or evade its obligations. All the practical difficulties which have been raised recently were considered when the then Premier of South Australia, the Honorable John Gunn, introduced the bill into the South Australian Parliament. They were considered by the present Premier of South Australia,  Mr. Butler,  then Leader of the Opposition, who voiced no protest against linkingRed Hill with Port Augusta, but suggested an alternative scheme, which has been mentioned by the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLachlan)  to-night. He did not say that there were any practical difficulties in the way of having two lines running to Port Augusta, nor did he foresee the vulnerability of such a line in time of war. All parties in the State Parliament accepted this compact, and I say with all charity that South Australia should stand up to its obligations, and should not seek some technical excuse for escaping them. In supporting the bill, I can satisfy my conscience as a State representative by the facts, first, that I believe the line is necessary; secondly, that a State should not repudiate obligations into which it has entered; and, thirdly, that I believe that eventually the work will have to be undertaken, and that it is better to do it to-day, and put men into work instead of keeping them on the dole. 
Most of this work will be performed by navvies, and practically the whole of the cost of construction will be for labour. South Australia to-day has a huge army of unemployed. Certain projects to alleviate the distress among the unemployed have been put forward, and I am sorry to say the party to which I belong has seen fit to reject one of them - the completion of Parliament House, Adelaide. Certain sections of my party were also opposed to the construction of theRed Hill to Port Augusta railway. 
-Parliament House will eventually have to be completed, and it is better to undertake work of this sort at a time when many of our people are struggling for existence than at some later date when it might he necessary to bring an army of men from overseas to supply the deficiencies of the labour market. 
Even if unification were achieved, the State Parliament House would still be necessary. The honorable senator might as well say that, as  Senator Johnston  advocates secession, the 'standardized railway from Port Augusta to Fremantle will not be necessary. Under unification, we shall still require some State body to control local affairs. 
Even if the control were by a municipal council, the building would be an asset upon the security of which the Commonwealth could increase its overdraft. However, whether we have unification or not, theRed Hill to Port Augusta railway line must be built, otherwise the other section of the line will have to be closed. This Parliament must take the responsibility of saying whether the other portion of the line should be closed, if it rejects the proposal now before it. I agree with the report  of the Parliamentary Committee on Public "Works referred to by  Senator Barnes;  I agree with the recommendations of the Commonwealth Commissioner for Railways, I am in sympathy with the agitation on the part of the better-informed section of the South Australian public for the construction of the line ; and I believe that it is better to build it to-day than to allow men to be living on the banks of the Torrens River, and collecting the dole from the South Australian Government, when they could be employed on this work. 
I am impelled to vote against the second reading. It appears to mefrom what the Minister said when introducing the measure that we are being called upon to consent to the ratification of an agreement which is not to be carried out. Alternative propositions have been put up, neither of which, I understand, has the consent of the South Australian Government. I came into this Senate as a State representative. My object has always been to preserve the sovereignty of the States. I have objected and shall continue to object to any infringement of State powers by the Commonwealth, without the consent of the State. 
The preamble of the bill contains the following statement which I regard as unnecessary :  - 
And whereas all such doubts have now been removed and there is now no doubt that the consent of the said State to the construction of the said railway by the Commonwealth is still in full force and effect. 
I have no doubt that that is the legal opinion given to this Government. But recently some of the legal opinions given to this Government have not stood the test of the High Court and other judicial bodies. The legal views by which the South Australian Government is guided are diametrically opposed to those upon which the Commonwealth relies. I suggest, therefore, that the phraseology of the bill would be improved if the passage I have read were omitted. If the South Australian people wished to have this railway constructed, and were prepared to build it or allow the Commonwealth to build it, I should vote for the bill. But I shall not support a measure which may be used to coerce the State Government into doing something which the 
South Australian people do not want. It has been said that the State act passed on the 26th February, 1926, ceased to be binding upon the State before the Commonwealth Act of 1930 was passed. 
I cannot say. Wehave two sets of conflicting legal opinions. Under the Constitution the Commonwealth cannot construct railways or extend railways in any State without theconsent of that State. In this case theSouth Australian Government has not: consented. For that reason only I intend to oppose the second reading of the bill, and I shall not be satisfied to support such a measure until I know that it has the consent of the South Australian: Government. 
I assure  Senator Grant  that the South Australian Government under its own legislation specifically consented to the construction of this line and, in plain terms, approved of this agreement which we now seek to carry into force. 
Section 3 of the South Australian act reads - 
The State hereby consents to the construction and carrying out by the Commonwealth: of the railways and railway works and operations which the Commonwealth undertakes by the agreement to construct and carry out: Provided that if the construction of therailway from Port Augusta to Red Hill referred to in the agreement is not commenced: by the Commonwealth within such period (being not less than three years from the dateof the commencement of this act) as is notified to the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth by the Premier of the State, within twelve months after the said commencement,, the consent given by this section shall, as regards such railway, be null and void. 
It has been suggested that the consent has lapsed because this undertaking was not carried out within three years. I invite honorable senators to mark the conditions. In the first place the period within which work was to be undertaken was to be not less than three years, and " within such period as notified to the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth by the Premier of the State ". The Premier of the State had to give that notification within twelve months. Reliance is-  placed upon the fact that this undertaking has not been carried out within three years or within the period of notice, but the obligation to give notice was placed on the Premier of South Australia by his own State legislation. The doubt in the mind of the last Government in this regard was created by an opinion of the then Crown Solicitor of South Australia. 
I come now to the bill passed by this Parliament in 1930. A great deal of -stress was laid by Senators Johnston and Grant upon the point that some doubt as to our authority in this regard was expressed in that legislation. I point out, however, that what we are proposing in this bill could have been done by executive act. If the Government had not desired to give this Parliament an opportunity to -discuss the whole question it could have advised  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral to issue a proclamation under section 2 of the act of 1930, and that act, with its appropriation power, would have come into operation. 
As to that, I may say that I went to South Australia in the role of peacemaker with the object of getting the Commonwealth and the State out of what promised at the time to be a law suit. My own opinion is that there will be no litigation. One honorable senator, who is a Scot, said this evening that the Commonwealth Government ought to pay for the alternative. I have a hazy idea that that is what is in mind. 
Quite so,  hut  these things, are, so to speak, sometimes picked up in the air.  Senator Johnston  alluded to a statement which he said was made by the Prime Minister,  Mr. Lyons.  If the right honorable gentleman had made any such statement as that attributed to him this bill would not have been introduced.  Mr. Lyons  said the State would be consulted. It has been consulted on three different occasions; a wealth of correspondence has taken place between the Commonwealth and the State. There has been no default on the part of the Commonwealth. I suggest to honorable senators that we have to look upon this as a sort of tidying-up  provision. If we examine the long and tedious route followed between Adelaide and Port Augusta we shall see that this bill provides a very important link between the eastern States and our more distant friends of Western Australia, some of whom complain of their tremendous isolation. 
The one point raised during this debate that has appealed to me is that this is an extravagant proposal. If I thought it was, I should not advocate it. I believe that if we could have brought about the purchase of the line from Bed Hill to Adelaide it would have resulted, in a saving to the State as well as to the Commonwealth. It has been said that this proposal runs counter to the policy of the Government to endeavour to stimulate private enterprise. It is true that that is, and has always been, the policy of the Government, and was so expressed in the Governor-General's Speech at the opening of the Parliament. But a further policy was enunciated on the hustings - the policy that we should assist the States in their unemployment position. It is pursuant to that policy that we have thought again of carrying out this work Which, at all events, will result in some sort of asset to Australia. 
But the total liability in respect of the railways will be reduced by this undertaking.  Senator Sampson  and  Senator DuncanHughes  suggested that there should be no extension of our railway system - that we should cut it out; but since we have these railways we should try to make the best of them. I believe that the almost impossible budgetary position of the States is due largely to the loss, mismanagement and lack of business methods in the control of our  railways. But as  Senator Sir George  Pearce has said, this means cohesion rather than a loosening out, and should be undertaken, regardless of whether the Commonwealth or the State body politic will reap the benefit. It might just as well be argued that, as Postmaster- General, I should not construct any more telegraph and telephone lines, because a few years hence they may be useless. 
The quotation made by  Senator Grant  has not convinced me. If I were convinced that it would not be economic to carry out this work I should not support it. This proposal may be modified, or the State may accept the alternative. I have donemy best to reconcile conflicting interests, and have suffered the usual fate of the man who interferes between man and wife. My actions have been criticized by some of the newspapers of South Australia. That, however, does not deter me from doing what I believe to be in the interest of taxpayers. It has been objected that South Australia will  be  forced to agree to this proposal. But is it the desire of the Senate that the Commonwealth should go cap-in-hand to the State because of the doubts expressed? If the consent is not there - if the State is right in its contention - there is a tribunal which will decide the matter. But God forbid that we should ever reach such a position. I am convinced that if it were a transaction between two business men it would be quickly settled. 
I, personally, would be quite willing to arbitrate, but the Government has to determine the policy that shall be adopted. We are on the best possible terms with South Australia, but we have to be careful to preserve our own rights. All our efforts have been made without prejudice. Listening to some honorable senators who have spoken one would imagine that we were forcing this proposal upon the State, whereas the actual position is that we are only asking the State to carry out its obligation.- We are prepared in that connexion to meet it in the way I have been authorized by the Acting Prime Minister to indicate to the Senate this evening. We are not proposing to coerce the State. The State Government has agreed to the scheme. If there are legal doubts there is a means of settling them. There is no desire what ever to force the State to do anything, nor do I suggest that the State is in any way hostile to us. A certain section of the public is always ready in connexion with railway proposals to adopt a point of view that suits their own particular district. When I think of the men outback in the west country, and of what stock have to endure while travelling from the west or the far north to the Adelaide abattoirs - cattle coming from Oodnadatta and sometimes far beyond that point - I feel more than ever convinced that this scheme should be carried out. We do not wish to be ungenerous to South Australia. When in 1927 I made this offer in the bill, I proposed to recompense the State for portion of whatever it might lose in this regard. 
In one respect it would, but all the stock coming west from Kalgoorlie would be carried to Port Pirie at all events on the one gauge of line. At the present time they are carried to Port Augusta on a broadgauge line; they are then de-trucked and transferred to the narrow-gauge line as far as Terowie, where they are again transferred from a narrow to a broad gauge railway. With this scheme carried into effect there will be only one break of gauge for the stock that is carried. I tried to persuade the State to sell to the Commonwealth the line from Red Hill to Adelaide. That would relieve the State of a liability of £43,000. a year. When that offer was made in 1927, we suggested an agreement similar to those which exist between certain American companies. 
That is so. 
They have been inserted on the advice of counsel. If a proclamation were not issued or some provision made such as is contained in this bill, certain points could have been used against the Government in the event of litigation. I know that the Government of South Australia is too sensible to engage in litigation over a matter of this kind. This Government feels that it is doing the right thing in the interest of the taxpayers who, in the end, have to provide the money. 
 I move - 
That the amendment be agreed  to. 
Prosecutions under this act, as I said last night, have mainly been under section 7. But there are other sections. Under section 5 the law provides that the mere averment by the prosecutor is taken as proof until it is disproved by the personal evidence of the defendant. The averment provision had always been taken by the court and by the administration, to apply to both sections 5 and 7, but the decision of the High Court in Sydney this week was that it did not apply to section 7 but did apply to section 5. The Government, therefore, brought in a proposal to make the averment clause apply to prosecutions under section 7. That has met with a good deal of opposition in this chamber, and also in the House of Representatives, imperilling the prospects of passing other and more important parts of the bill. The Government has accepted an amendment, the effect of which is that in prosecutions under section 7we shall not be able to rely on the averment section ; we shall have to prove out case. 
SenatorRAE (New South Wales) [9.3].  -  It gives me great satisfaction to know that something has been accomplished as the result, of our protest in this chamber yesterday. I know we cannot assume that what we said softened the hearts of Ministers and their supporters, because we have just been told that the Government surrendered in the House of Representatives because of the fear that, if it did not give way, the bill would be lost. Nevertheless, we are thankful for small mercies. I understand, from what I heard of the debate in the other chamber, that the Government intends next session to bring in a compre-, hensive measure, and my fear is that it may attempt to take away the concession which it is now making. What we ask for is mere elementary justice, namely,  that  the person deemed to be a prohibited immigrant shall be informed of  the charge against him so that he may have an opportunity to refute it. I was surprised at the reactionary nature of the speeches delivered by some members of the House of Representatives yesterday.  Senator Foll,  in this chamber, was just as reactionary. We should not seek to close our doors to the culture of the world simply because some people in this country think we are more enlightened than some of those who seek admittance. 
I am glad that we have been able to accomplish something, and I remind the Government that whenever we have an opportunity we shall ask for a good deal more. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
.  - I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
This morning  Senator Rae  asked the following questions: - 
What was the nature of the charge against a newspaper named  The United Bushworker  which caused it to be denied transmission through the post? 
On what date did the objectionable matter appear ? 
Is any offence committed by a newspaper, which precludes its transmission through the post office, held to be a reason for a perpetual disqualification of such publication? 
If not, by what means can a journal that has been subject to such ban be restored? 
Is the journal  The Soviet To-day  permanently banned from transmission through the post, and, if so, what specific offence is responsible for such action? 
I then promised the honorable senator that the information would be obtained and a reply given later. I am now in a position to give the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: -  1 and 2. As the publication in question is deemed to be issued by, on behalf of or in the interests of an unlawful association, its transmission through the post is prohibited under section 30e of the Crimes Act. If a publication is issued on behalf of an unlawful association the prohibition contained in section 30e applies to all numbers of that publication even though some numbers may not contain seditious matter. 3 to 5. On 4th March, 1935, the National Secretary of the Friends of the Soviet Union wrote to the Postmaster-General threatening litigation regarding the prohibition of the transmission of  The Soviet To-day  through the post. I do not propose to furnish any information in answer to a question that will assist an organization in its threatened litigation, beyond stating that the publication is undoubtedly within the application of section 30e of the Crimes Act. 
The file in connexion with this matter is not now in my keeping, and I am unable to enlarge upon the reply already given. 

 Senator Grant also asked this morning 
Whether the Minister can inform the Senate the reason for the delay in the removal of the Sandy Bay rifle range at Hobart to a much more suitable location at Glenorchy? 
In view of the projected early rising of the Senate, immediate steps were taken to obtain a reply to the honorable senator's question. The information, as supplied by the Minister for Defence, is as follows :  - 
No site for a rifle range as suitable as Sand; Bay has been suggested. The department informed the Hobart City Council on9th July, 1934, of the final conditions under which a transfer of the range from Sandy Bay to a siteat Glenorchy would be agreed to. The councilhas informed the department that it agrees generally to the conditions laid down by the department, but it is at present unable  to finance the scheme as it has been ascertained that the estimates of the value of the existing range submitted by the originators of the proposal have been excessive. The matter is now in abeyance pending further action by the Hobart City Council. 
"Whatever my political opinions, and however greatly they may differ from those held by my colleague from South Australia, the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator McLachlan),  the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  the Acting Attorney-General  (Senator Brennan),  and the Government 'Whip  (Senator Foll),  I desire, before retiring for a while from public life as a member of the Senate, to express my appreciation of the extreme courtesy that they have always extended to me, both as a Minister and as a private senator. I cannot hope that when those of us who now retire from the Senate again return to this chamber the present Ministers will still be on the ministerial bench, but whether there or on the Opposition side, I trust that the same good feeling that has always existed between us will continue in our future associations. I should also like to include you,  Mr. President,  in my expression of appreciation, particularly as I have been able only to-day to convince you that in one respect at least I was right. You, sir, have been most generous in your, treatment of the Opposition, and I thank you for the courtesy that you have extended to me personally. I cannot say too much of the courtesy and efficiency of the  Clerk  of the Senate  (Mr. Monahan)  and the  Clerk  Assistant  (Mr. Broinowski).  I hope that the Senate will always be privileged to have a staff as efficient as that which it now has. I leave this chamber with feelings of goodwill towards all honorable senators. 
.- On behalf of the officers of the Senate, who are not . permitted to reply for themselves, I thank  Senator Daly  for his expression of thanks. I trust that I shall have an opportunity to-morrow to make appreciative reference to those honorable senators whose term expires at the end of June. Speaking for the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  the Acting Attorney-General  (Senator Brennan)  and the Government "Whip  (Senator Foll),  as well as for myself, I thank  Senator Daly  for his generous expressions. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I have received the following telegram from  Senator Sir Harry  Lawson :  - 
Regret inability attend this week. May 1 senda farewell message of regard, goodwill and thanks to senators, officers and attendants. 
I thank  Senator Daly  for his complimentary references to myself, and assure him that whatever knowledge I now have of the Standing Orders is largely due to the stimulus given to me by the honorable senator himself. In order to answer the honorable senator's frequent inquiry " Under which standing order do you rule"? I determined to become thoroughly familiar with the Standing Orders. If I have acquired more than a passing knowledge of them, I have to thank  Senator Daly.  To-morrow, I shall take the opportunity to refer to the departure from our midst of a number of honorable senators who will not meet with us when we reassemble afterJune next. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Yesterday the Minister representing the Prime Minister advised me, in reply to a question upon notice, that handbooks, to certain acts and regulations thereunder may be consulted in the Parliamentary Library. Is the Government agreeable to copies of these publications being placed in the Federal Member's rooms in each of the capital cities? 
This suggestion is well worthy of the consideration of the Government, and I shall accordingly make representations upon it to Cabinet. It would be a convenience to honorable members and honorable senators to have the collated laws and regulations available for consultation in each of the- capital cities. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill has its roots some distance back in the past. Its purpose is to approve an agreement which has been made between the Governments of the Commonwealth and the six States, relating in the main to soldier settlement loans. 
The chief items of financial relief to the States concerning soldier settlement loans which are embodied in the agreement have already been given effect in accordance with announcements previously made to Parliament, but it was necessary to enter into a formal agreement, the completion of which has delayed the introduction of this measure. All the State parliaments have ratified tho agreement and it remains only for this Parliament to do so. 
The control and management of soldier land settlement was undertaken by the. States, but the Commonwealth contributed very substantially by way of financial assistance. 
The Commonwealth also lent money to the States aggregating about £35,000,000. 
In 1S25 an agreement was entered into between the governments to give effect to arrangements mutually arrived at. Under it the Commonwealth undertook to write off £5,000,000 of loans due by the States to the Commonwealth. This agreement was ratified by all States excepting New South "Wales and Victoria. Until' they had completed the agreement the Commonwealth was unable to ratify it, and consequently it did not become binding. 
In 1927, requests were made by the States for further financial assistance from the Commonwealth. As a consequence, it was agreed that  Mr. Justice  Pike of the New South Wales Land Valuation Court should be appointed to investigate the whole subject, with a view mainly to the allocation of financial responsibility between the Commonwealth and the States.  Mr. Justice  Pike, after a very full investigation, recommended that the losses incurred should be shared equally by the Commonwealth and the States.  His  recommendation was accepted by all parties. So far as the Commonwealth was concerned, it involved the writing off of an additional amount of approximately £2,600,000 as from the 30th June, 1927. 
The position was briefly reviewed in the budget speech of 1929-30. The announcement was then made that the Commonwealth had accepted the recommendations of  Mr. Justice  Pike and would take action accordingly. 

 Mr. Justice Pike found that the total losses were approximately £24,000,000. Under his recommendation, the Commonwealth had to bear one-half of that sum. But towards this half previous assistance was taken into account. Shortly stated, the Commonwealth's share of half the losses has been found by - 

<graphic href="146332193504114_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

From the 1st January, 1931, the interest charged to the States on outstanding loans was reduced from the actual cost to a flat rate of 5 per cent., and, later, following the internal conversion loan, the rate was further reduced to 4 per cent, from the 31st July, 1931. 
The agreement, the execution of which was delayed for various reasons, is attached to the bill and is submitted for  approval by Parliament. Broadly speaking, the main points dealt with in the agreement are - 
The classes of persons eligible for settlement under the agreement. 
The acknowledgment by the States of sums advanced to them by the Commonwealth. 
The acknowledgment by the Commonwealth of the remission of portion of the indebtedness of the States. 
The rates of interest payable by the States. 
The maximum rates of interest chargeable to settlers. 
The engagement of the States to complete a satisfactory settlement of the settlers who have remained on the land, particularly in regard to home maintenance areas. 
The balance of loans now due by the States to the Commonwealth, after allowing for the writing off of £7.600,000, is approximately £27,000,000. Clause 15 of the agreement provides that, from the 1st July, 1933, that sum shall be regarded as a debt owing by the States to the public, instead of as an advance owing by the States to the Commonwealth. It is a machinery clause to simplify inter-governmental accounting. As previously stated, effect has been given, in the accounts of the Commonwealth and the States, to the financial provisions of this agreement, in regard to the writing off of £5,000,000 from October, 1925, and of a further £2,600,000 from June, 1927, the action in both cases following upon announcements in Parliament. 
In the financial agreement the totals of the debts of the States as at the 30th June, 1927, which were subsequently taken over by the Commonwealth, are set down specifically. As this new agreement affects those totals, it is necessary to amend the financial agreement. The amount of £5,000,000 to be written off from October, 1925, was deducted in computing the debts of the States for the purposes of the financial agreement. The further amount of £2,600,000 to be written off, was a subsequent development and was, of course, not deducted. A clause has accordingly been provided in the agreement, the effect of which is to reduce the net debt of the States at the 30th June, 1927, as set out in the financial agreement, by approximately £2,600,000. 
In drafting the agreement opportunity was taken to make a small amendment of one of the clauses of the financial agreement relating to membership of the Australian Loan Council. The financial agreement provides for a loan council consisting " one Minister of State of the Commonwealth to be appointed in writing from time to time by the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth to represent the Commonwealth, and one Minister of State of each State to be appointed in writing from time to time by the Premier of that State to represent that State." In practice it has been found that in many cases the Prime Minister and the State Premiers were Treasurers in their respective spheres, and had to nominate themselves as members of the Loan Council. Some doubt was expressed as to whether a Prime Minister or a Premier could legally appoint himself as a representative at the council, and, consequently, in order to clarify the position, provision has beenmade in clause 18 of this agreement to amend the financial agreement, so that the Prime Minister and the Premiers of the States will be ex officio members of the council with the right to appoint substitute representatives. Apart from those two minor alterations, the agreement does not alter the financial agreement.. Nor does it in any way affect the administration of soldier land settlement. 
Unfortunately, we have had no opportunity to consider the agreement, and are asked to vote in the dark. Does the ngreement mean that the States are liable for approximately £25,000,000, and, if so, is any provision made for the liquidation of that debt ? 
The amount simply becomes a part of the public debt, and the prospects of its being paid off are the same as in the case of the public debt generally. 
SenatorRae.  -  Does the Minister mean the debts of the States? 
The public debts of Commonwealth and States  are really one. The honorable senator said that no opportunity had been given to consider the bill. In a sense that is true; but the Senate is now asked to ratify an agreement which has been thoroughly considered by the representatives of both the Commonwealth and the States who subjected it to a more searching examination than is possible in this Parliament. I think that the Senate may safely accept the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Motion (by  Senator Brennan)  proposed - 
That the report be adopted. 
Can the Minister say whether returned soldiers who have purchased lands in the various States, particularly "Western Australia, at prices far above their value, will be granted relief under this measure? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This agreement has been made between the Commonwealth and the States in accordance with the recommendations of  Mr. Justice  Pike, but the provision of any future relief will become the responsibility of the States. 
.- The bill contains a lengthy agreement, and as it has just been distributed to honorable senators we have had no opportunity to get a proper grip of its contents. This putting through of legislation in a blindfold manner leaves all honorable senators open to the criticism that they are ignorant of the measures they are supposed to deal with. As the bill has been on the stocks for so long, could it not be deferred a little longer? Why rush it through when honorable senators have not had an opportunity to study fully its contents? We have been informed by the Minister that experts have studied the agreement, but that fact does not relieve us of responsibility in dealing with it. I protest against this blindfold method of putting through legislation. By this measure we may be committing the Commonwealth or the States to the expenditure of millions of pounds. 
Being familiar with the history of this agreement I point out to honorable senators that this measure will really clean up the position, as between the Commonwealth and the States, in accordance with the recommendations of  Mr. Justice  Pike, who reported on the results of the unfortunate selection of certain lands for the settlement of returned soldiers.  Mr. Justice  Pike's recommendations were, in part, specific and, in part, directed towards the ascertainment of certain amounts by the application of certain principles. Much water has flowed under the bridge since that report was made, but as a result of conferences between the treasury officials of the Commonwealth and the States, an agreement was arrived at. This agreement was drafted over two years ago by the law officers, and sent to the States for consideration. We have only recently received the completed agreement fully signed. We cannot vary this agreement; it has been settled as between representatives of the Commonwealth and the States, and the Prime Minister and the Premiers of all the States concerned have signed it. As the States have adjusted their accounts as between themselves and the Commonwealth on the lines of  Mr. Justice  Pike's report, there oan be little danger in acceding to the agreement. 
By way of personal explanation, I desire to make my position clear in this matter. I knew previously that this agreement had been endorsed by the various State governments, and that the Queensland Government has agreed to its terms; so any doubts I may have entertained in regard to it have been allayed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill includes items of expenditure other than on new works and buildings during the financial year ended the 30th June, 1934, which have been met under the authority of the vote for Treasurer's Advance. It should he borne in mind that parliamentary authority for this expenditure has been given by the appropriation in the Estimates in chief of a lump sum, under the designation of " Treasurer's Advance ". This provision enabled the Treasurer to make advances to the various departments to meet expenditure which could not be foreseen when the Estimates were presented and for which provision was obviously not included under the ordinary divisions of the Estimates. Details of the expenditure met in this way must be set out in Supplementary Estimates, and the items are now submitted to Parliament for a covering appropriation. 
The vote for Treasurer's Advance for 1933-34 was £2,000,000. The total expenditure therefrom was £543,203, made up as follows: - Ordinary departmental expenditure and war services payable from revenue, £497,222; additions, new works and buildings, £45,981. 
The amount of £497,222 is covered by this bill, and the new works expenditure of £45,981 will be submitted later for covering appropriation. There are no exceptionally heavy items of expenditure, and in most cases the additional expenditure was provided subject to corresponding savings on other votes. 
Parliament has already been fully apprised of the expenditure now submitted for covering appropriation. Full details were furnished with the Estimates and budget-papers of the current year. In the Estimates, the actual amounts expended are set out alongside the votes for the previous year, and it can be seen at a glance whether the votes have been exceeded and what call there has been on the Treasurer's Advance. Details are also included in the AuditorGeneral's report and the Treasurer's financial statement. 
Expenditure under Miscellaneous Ser- " vices is by far the largest item, amounting to £204,966. Most of this was expenditure which could not be foreseen, such as, for example, exchange on remittances to London, £16,053. Under War Service Homes, there is an item of £16,796 for the maintenance of homes and properties. This expenditure was occasioned owing to the unfortunate position of some of the occupants. Under the Department of Trade and ' Customs there is an amount of £20,000 to put growers of doradillo grapes in South Australia on a sound basis. All expenditure under this bill, I may add, has been examined by the Auditor-General's Department. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Schedule. 

 Proposed votes - The Parliament, £2,292; the Prime Minister's Department, £10,487; the Department of the Treasury, £29,276; the AttorneyGeneral's Department, £6,066 - agreed to. 
The Department of the Interior. 

 Proposed vote, £10,142. 
I am given to understand that the amount paid by the Department of the Interior for the purpose of collecting meteorological records in Canberra is about 4s. a week. As there is a large amount of data to be handled, I should be glad if the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior would direct attention to this item with a view to putting the work on a more satisfactory basis. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Department of Defence, £19,S28; Department of Trade and Customs, £10,731 - agreed to. 
Departmentof Health. 

 Proposed vote, £2,878. 
I direct the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health to the serious inconvenience caused to passengers on overseas vessels upon arrival at Australian ports. The practice seems to be to require passengers to assemble on deck at about 6 a.m. to await the coming of the medical officers, whose business it is to make the inspection and give them clearance. On every occasion when I have arrived at Australian ports from New Zealand, New Guinea, or Great Britain, I have hoard complaints from passengers about the long delays and general lack of courtesy, especially at Fremantle. I ask the Minister to bring this matter under the notice of the Department of Health in order that a little more consideration may be shown to disembarking passengers. 
I understand from press reports that a cure for infantile paralysis and meningitis is supposed to have been discovered by Sister Kenny who is at present in charge of a clinic at Townsville, Queensland. I should like to know what steps are being taken by the Common wealth Department of Health to test the efficacy of this treatment and what information the Minister has on the subject. 
The Minister for Health is giving this matter his closest attention and it is also being considered by a sub-committee of Cabinet. No one is more actively sympathetic to the matter than the Acting Prime Minister. 
Is any expenditure provided for in this bill to provide for quarantine stations in Queensland and the Northern Territory where overseas aircraft first land in Australia? It is obvious that the air traffic to Australia is likely to increase considerably. Has any report been presented by the departmental officers? 
.  - This matter has received the consideration of the Government. Developments in aerial passenger traffic are so rapid that it is very difficult to keep in touch with them. Discussions have taken place between the officers of the Commonwealth Health Department and the Queensland and Territorial health authorities with regard to the matter. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - The Department of Commerce, £15,864 - agreed to. 
Miscellaneous Services. 

 Proposed vote, £204,966. 
.- Was the grant of £1,000 to the late Flight-Lieutenant Ulm in recognition of his services to aviation additional to the amount guaranteed in connexion with his trans-Pacific flight? 
.  - The amount provided is to cover expenditure up to the 30th June, 1934, and relates to a grant in recognition of FlightLieutenant Ulm's services to aviation. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - War Services, £49,240 - agreed to. 
Commonwealthrailways. 

 Proposed vote, £81,304. 
I notice that the sum of £1 is provided under the heading " North Australia Railway - Interest on loans taken over from the State of South Australia." I should like an explanation from the Minister to what this small item represents. What is the position in regard to railways taken over from South Australia? 
.  - Obviously the amount to which the honorable senator has referred does not cover the total interest on loans which the Commonwealth has taken over from South Australia in connexion with the North Australia railway; evidently the amount was short-voted in the Appropriation Act. and the deficiency had to be met from Treasurer's Advance. I am not able to tell the honorable senator offhand the total amount of interest which the Commonwealth has to pay. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Postmaster-General's Department, £34,396; Northern Territory, £1,598; Federal Capital Territory, £12,154; Papua, £6,000 - agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests;report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 

 Sitting suspended from 11.53 a.m. to4 p.m. 

I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
In 1933 Parliament passed a bill for an act to establish the Supreme Court of the Territory for the Seat of Government, and for other purposes, and in that measure the territory of the Australian Capital Territory was defined as meaning the Territory for the Seat of Government. The only purpose of this measure is to extend that definition to include the Territory of Jervis Bay, which, at present, may be outside the scope of the 1933 act altogether. It is doubtful whether there is any provision at the present time for a superior court to sit at Jervis Bay. The bill is quite non-contentious. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I take this opportunity to express, on behalf of all the members of the Government, my absent leader, and my colleagues in this chamber, our regret, in a personal sense, that some of our friends opposite, as well as some on this side of the chamber, will not meet with us when the Senate resumes its sittings. In elaboration of the observation I made last night, I wish on behalf of my colleagues and myself to say how much we have appreciated the candour and integrity which has characterized the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  in the discharge of his duties. Public business could not be carried on without a good understanding between those in charge of it and the members of the Opposition, and without reliance on the integrity of both parties. Public life will be a thing to be spurned and scorned if the day comes when we are unable to trust each other in that respect. While we on this side of the chamber have differed fundamentally in 'politics from  Senator Barnes,  I wish to acknowledge that on every occasion upon which he has given an undertaking to do a thing he has observed his undertaking to the letter, sometimes at great personal inconvenience. While in the whirligig of time changes must occur in the representation in this Parliament, my colleagues and I will feel a sense of personal loss, and moTe than a pang of regret, at our parting with those honorable senators who are in their place in this chamber for the last time to-day, at least for some years. I refer to certain honorable members on this side of the chamber who are retiring voluntarily, as well as to honorable gentlemen opposite with whom we have been associated for a number of years who are retiring by the will of the electors. To them all I can say, in the language of the Spaniard, "Adios" - God be with thee. More I cannot say. 
.- I appreciate very much the kind sentiments which the Postmaster-General has just expressed. As Leader of the Opposition my job has been to oppose the Government. Usually the Government has been wrong, and I have never failed to point that out with all the eloquence at my command, and my colleagues have ably assisted me. Although at times the Opposition has been numerically weak, the Government has had reason to know that it consisted of game and stubborn fighters. Now the time has come for me to leave this gallant band, and to pass, temporarily, I hope, into the shades of political oblivion. The electors have so decided; we have always to bow to the will of the people, although I believe that at the last election they made an awful blunder, which, perhaps, they will correct in the near future. My long membership of this chamber has been uniformly pleasant. In political life one makes associations, the like of which I believe are impossible elsewhere. Men elected to this chamber are usually fighters having strong convictions which they strenuously advocate. Yet when the battle is over they bury the hatchet - but only till the following day when each man is again seeking the scalp of his political enemy. One effect of this constant warfare is to imbue us with respect for able and gallant foes. I shall take with me into retirement the happiest recollections of interesting experiences and valued friendships. It is said that "hope springs eternal in the human breast " ; I hope to return to the Senate some day, and should I do so, and should you,  Mr. President,  still be in the chair, I shall again treat you with as much insolence as the Standing Orders and your good nature will permit. I shall sever my association with this chamber with the kindliest feelings towards all honorable senators. I believe I can say truthfully that I have not a single enemy here; certainly I myself bear no enmity towards any other honorable senator. 
As one who belongs .to another wing of the Labour movement in this chamber, I express my appreciation of the kind words uttered by the PostmasterGeneral on behalf of his colleagues. At times I may have been regarded more or less as a ruffian and a Bolshevik. Partly because this chamber requires livening up occasionally, and partly because of the natural impatience of youth, one is led sometimes to overstep the bounds of strict decorum. Despite whatever little fighting I have been able to do during the six years I have been a member of this chamber, I shall leave it without any personal animosity towards any honorable senator, however vigorously he may have opposed me in debate or assailed the principles in which I believe. To the best of my. ability I have always endeavoured to express my honest sentiments; under no circumstances have I departed from the ideals which I hold dear. My defeat at the last election I accept with the philosophy with which I have been in the habit of taking every other adversity ; if some win, others must lose. I am in the habit of taking things as they come. This is not my first defeat, and, possibly, in the future, I shall be victorious again. I repeat, that I leave this chamber entertaining the kindliest feelings towards every honorable senator. 
I have nothing to add to the remarksI made last evening, and I am sure the Postmaster-General will accept them as an appreciation on my part of the good-will he has expressed towards those honorable senators who met defeat at the last election. I have known the honorable senator for many years, and long before I entered politics I formed an affection for him. Although we differ fundamentally on political principles, I have no doubt that, as an Australian and a man, it would be difficult to find his equal; it would certainly be impossible to find his superior. 
SenatorJ. V. MacDONALD. (Queensland) [4.17].- On behalf of Senators Collings and Brown, who, with myself, will constitute the Opposition when the Senate re-assembles, I express regret at parting with some of our colleagues in the Labour party. We are also very sorry that the Senate is losing the services of  Senator' Lawson, Senator Reid,  and  Senator Elliott.  Naturally, our greatest grief is because of the disaster which overwhelmed our own colleagues on this side of the chamber. As a result of their departure the strength of honorable senators on this side willbe reduced from ten to three. Under the leadership of  Senator Barnes  we have had a fairly easy time in this chamber, and in losing him we are losing a great Australian. 
As a boy I spent some years in the Australian bush, and the old influences remained with me when I passed to other spheres in the city. Therefore I was agreeably surprised to find on my advent to this chamber a real Australian bushman in  Senator Barnes  as my leader. Talking over our common experiences in the bush we spent many pleasant hours together. With  Senator Daly  and  Senator Rae,  I hope that the parties represented by honorable senators on this side of the House are only suffering an eclipse, a temporary obscuration by another political planet, so far as their representation in the Senate is concerned, and that the retiring senators will soon be back with us again. I feel sure honorable senators opposite will endorse that sentiment, although, of course, they would not like to see twenty senators on this side, converting the present overwhelming majority into a substantial minority. I assure the retiring senators that my two colleagues and I, who will remain here after their departure will keep the flag flying. Of the work awaiting- to be done, I hope to be able to do my share. I have had a foretaste of the experience now awaiting three of us in that, about twelve years ago, for a period of three months I was the sole representative in this chamber . of the great Australian Labour Party. And so, although we shall be a party of only three, my position will be much happier than it was on the other occasion to which I have referred. Although we have had our little differences in the party room our relations have been harmonious, and I cannot express the regret I feel at what I trust is only thetemporary retirement of valued colleagues. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch)  [4.20]. - It is customary, on the eve of our dispersal at Christmas, for honorable senators to express their respect for and goodwill towards each other. That such exchanges are no mere seasonal ebullition is proved by the cordiality of the sentiments that have been expressed this, afternoon when we are about to part with several honorable gentlemen with whom we have been associated in this chamber for many years. 
This cordiality and mutual respect between political opponents does credit to our national Parliament, and is a hopeful augury that the best traditions of public life will be maintained. 
Reference has been made to those honorable senators who have fallen in the political battle. In politics, as in other kinds of warfare, there are victories and rewards; there are also casualties and defeats. But I hope that those honorable gentlemen, who have been for the time being, banished from this chamber, find solace in the thought that although their immediate path may be beset with difficulties, their defeat may be the beginning of a brighter future. On one occasion a gentleman, who, I thought, was a much better man than myself, but who was defeated by me at the polls, wrote to me that his defeat had been the best thing that had ever happened to him, because it had been the means of his obtaining a better position, where politics would trouble him no more. I hope that that will be the experience of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  and the other honorable senators who are leaving us. As  Senator J.  V. MacDonald stated, they are perhaps experiencing only a temporary political eclipse. Aristotle has said thatvery often sympathy is a mental impression of one's own destiny, but I assure these honorable senators that our sympathy for them is not based on any selfish fear that some day we may meet the same fate. We have learned to appreciate their corporate and individual character as representatives of the public. We cannot live long in the company of men without learning something of their inner character. I have learned to appreciate to the full the sterling qualities of those honorable gentlemen whom we may not meet again in this chamber for some years. They have lived up to the very highest standards of good citizenship. They have fought with all the powers at their command for those principles in which they believed, and for those things which they thought; would assist in making this country great. And yet when the heat of battle had passed they manifested one of the finest characteristics of the British stock - respect and goodwill for their political opponents. I am reminded of the old saying : " In essentials unity, in doubtful matters liberty, in all things charity." The cordial remarks that have been exchanged between political rivals this afternoon prove, if proof were necessary, that there is a charitable strain in the members of this chamber. 
Officers of the House, the  Hansard  staff, and the attendants have discharged their duties with characteristic loyalty and efficiency. They have done their work faithfully and well ; there has never been any need to exercise a stern supervision of them. All have been animated by the desire to render faithful service to the Parliament and the people of this country. In saying that, I am merely repeating a testimony that has been given on many previous occasions. 
If I were to say anything good of myself, it would probably not be believed. But yesterday  Senator Daly  made kind references to me, which I very much appreciate. Yet when he rose, I immediately feared that I had committed some error, for whenever a senator rises suddenly and asks: "Under what standing order do you give that ruling?" I know instinctively that he is  Senator Daly. His  knowledge and constant vigilance have been the direct means of compelling me to make a closer acquaintance with the Standing Orders than I otherwise would.  His  criticisms have been a blessing in disguise; so although he is leaving us, I hope that he will enter into the enjoyment " of fresh woods and pastures new." Let honorable senators make no mistake - I shall stand for the Presidency again ; and, if I am elected to the position, I hope that there will be somebody in  Senator Daly's  place who will have the same deep knowledge of the Standing Orders as he has, and the same propensity for ensuring that the  President  also keeps his acquaintance with them up to date. 
Gentlemen, I wish you well. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 4.31 p.m. till a day and hour to be fixed by the  President. 
[3.14].-  Mr. Broinowski,  the time has arrived for choosing some suitable member of the Senate as its  President.  I move - 
That  Senator Patrick  Joseph Lynch do take the Chair of this Senate as  President. 

 Senator Lynch  being the only honorable senator proposed as  President,  was conducted to the dais, and said - 
I thank honorable senators for the great distinction which they have conferred upon me. There are several reasons for which I should be appreciative of their action, but mention of two of them will suffice. In the first place, this important office, one of the highest, if not the highest in the Commonwealth, is filled periodically. The filling of it devolves upon honorable senators who come here from the remote corners of the Commonwealth - an assembly unique perhaps among legislative chambers in the world, because Australians are the only people who control an entire continent. Therefore the selection of a man from among those specially appointed to share in the government of the nation, to be the chief presiding officer of the Commonwealth Parliament confers upon him a very high honour indeed. My next point is that, as some people may very readily understand, I have not  been  appointed to this honorable post in any haphazard manner. As a matter of fact, there was a very keen and spirited, but, at the same time, friendly contest for it; and when I call to mind the character of the men opposed to me in the selection for this high office- old, experienced, and trusted parliamentarians - I feel that the choice of me from such a distinguished group of competitors is n complement of which I may pardonably be proud. I am not new to this office ; I have borne its responsibilities for three years, and I regard my selection for a second term as an appreciation of my past service. It will readily occur to honorable senators and, for that matter, to any other citizen of the Commonwealth, that the filling of this high and important office calls for impartial and fearless administration, requiring the holder of it sometimes to do unpleasant things. Although some of my actions in the past may be remembered against me, I feel that I can justifiably claim that I weathered the storm fairly well, and discharged the duties of the office with satisfaction to the majority of honorable senators. For these and other reasons which I could mention, I sincerely thank honorable senators for the very great honour which they have conferred upon: me by re-electing me to the presidential chair. The harness is ready for  me.  I can promise honorable senators that, although I may not always be able to pull the required load of responsibility placed upon me, I shall at all times do  my  best ; at any rate, I shall not " jib " in the effort. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [3.19].- On behalf of honorable senators on this side of the chamber I congratulate you,  Mr. President,  on your election. I feel sure that you will discharge your duties impartially and with due regard to the dignity and decorum of the proceedings of the Senate. 
On behalf of the Opposition in this chamber I congratulate you, sir, on having been re-elected to the position of  President  of the Senate. A few moments ago you suggested that at times during your previous term of office you may have been compelled to do things which did not, please every one, and which may or may not have been remembered against you. T assure you sir, that although at times you may have had to discipline some of us we do not remember such occasions with feelings of animosity. We are glad to see you again occupying such a high position, and we feel sure that you will give a fair and impartial deal to all honorable senators. 
I was very pleased to hear you admit, sir, that when previously occupying the position of  President,  you may have made some mistakes. Such mistakes, I suggest, were rare. During the next three years we do not expect you to be infallible. We on this side of the chamber are few in number, and we shall rely upon your good judgment to allow us a certain amount of latitude in the work which we have to undertake. We admired the way in which you carried out your duties, particularly when efforts were made by certain honorable senators opposite to restrict our rights. On such occasions you stood four square against our opponents, and assisted us in our endeavour to express ourselves freely. We hope that you will continue such good offices, and assure to us adequate freedom of debate. 
[3.23]. - I desire to intimate  to  honorable senators that  His Excellency  the Governor-General will be pleased to receive  Mr. President,  and such honorable senators as desire to accompany him in the President'sRoom forthwith. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  P.  J. Lynch). -  I shall suspend the sitting of the Senate at this stage in order that I may present myself to the GovernorGeneral as the choice of the Senate. I hope that as many honorable senators as can do so will accompany me to the President's Room. 

 Sitting suspended at3.24 p.m. 

The  President (Senator the Hon.  P. J.  Lynch)  took the chair at 3.35 p.m., and read prayers. 
I have to announce that, accompanied by honorable senators, I, this day, presented myself to the Governor-General as the person chosen by the Senate as its  President. His Excellency  was pleased to congratulate me upon my election, and to approve of the choice of the Senate. 
 by leave  - I have to announce that at a meeting of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party held in April last I was elected Leader of the Opposition in this chamber as from the 1st July last. All that I desire to say at this juncture is that I shall endeavour to carry out the duties which devolve upon me to the best of my ability, and that any criticism I may offer will be honest and sincere. Although the Opposition in this chamber is small in numbers, it represents 46 per cent. of the electors  who  cast their votes at the election held on the 15th September, 1934. The duty devolves upon us therefore to see that justice is done to that section of the people which voted for Labour representation. 
I am speaking of Australia generally. It must be realized that there is something wrong with the system of electing the members of this chamber since 46 per cent. of the  electors obtained no representation at all, the other 54 per cent. receiving the whole of the representation. Those are the official figures. My object in referring to this matter now is not to grieve about the result, but to meet in advance the satirical remarks which will, no doubt, be heard in this chamber later, if not this afternoon, concerning our depleted numbers, and our ineffectiveness as an Opposition. 
[3.40]. - I congratulate the honorable senator upon the honour which has been bestowed upon him by his colleagues. I shall not repeat the jocular hope, so often expressed by Ministers on occasions of this kind, regarding the duration of his term of office in opposition. I am sure the Ministry will extend to him the courtesy which is due to the Leader of the Opposition, irrespective of the number of his followers. 
I have to inform the Senate that when advice was received of the death of  Senator Lionel  Thomas Courtenay, which occurred on the 11th July last, I conveyed to  Mrs. Courtenay  an expression of sympathy on behalf of honorable senators, pending a. formal resolution of the Senate. In accordance with Section 21 of the Constitution, I notified his  Excellency  the Governor of New South Wales of the existence of a vacancy in the representation of that State in this Chamber. 
[3.42]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of  Senator Lionel  Thomas Courtenay, of New South Wales, and tenders to his widow and family its sincere sympathy in their bereavement. 
On the 1 1th July last, ten days after he had been elected a member of this chamber,  Senator Courtenay  passed away. He had taken a prominent part in the public life of New South Wales, and almost to the last he continued to evince a keen interest in matters connected with the public life of his State and of the Commonwealth. For two years immediately prior to his election to the Senate he had been a member of the Legislative Council of New South Wales. He had a record of public service extending over 34 years, and was regarded as an authority on Local Government matters.  His  connexion with Local Government administration in New South Wales included service for a period of six years as a member of the City Council of Sydney. 
I second the motion. I was closely associated with the late senator during the last election campaign, and it had been my privilege and pleasure to be acquainted with him for many years previously. I feel keenly the loss which this chamber and the people of Australia have sustained through his death. 
Although I was not personally acquainted with the late honorable senator, I desire to support the motion, for the sympathies of all of us go out to the members of the bereaved family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.45]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of  Mr. George  Arnot Maxwell, K.C., who represented the Division of Fawkner in the House of Representatives for a period of eighteen years, places on record its appreciation of his distinguished public services, and tenders to his widow and family its profound sympathy in their bereavement. 

 Mr. Maxwell, whose death occurred on the 25th June, last, represented the Fawkner electorate in the House of Representatives for eighteen years. During that period he won the esteem of the members of both branches of the legislature" because of the rare qualities of mind and heart which he brought to bear in his public service.  His  conspicuous devotion to duty, notwithstanding a great physical handicap, will long be remembered by those who were privileged to be associated with him. I never ceased to marvel at not only his assiduous attention to his parliamentary duties, but also his activity in the legal profession, despite a disability which would have sent a less courageous man into retirement. The Parliament of the Commonwealth will be the poorer for the passing of a man of such character and ability as the late  Mr. Maxwell,  and his memory will be cherished by all of us. On behalf of the Senate, I extend to his widow and family our deepest sympathy. 
I second the motion. We of the Opposition sincerely endorse the remarks of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  and extend our sincere sympathy to the widow and family of the late  Mr. George  Maxwell. 
I knew the late  Mr. Maxwell  for many years. I have stood by his side in many a hard-fought legal battle, and also was well acquainted with him privately. Knowing his sterling character and lovable nature, I associate myself with the tribute paid to his memory by the Leader of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.48]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its profound regret at the death of the Honorable  Sir Elliott  Lewis, K.C.M.G-., Lieutenant-Governor of Tasmania, a former Minister of the Crown, places on record its appreciation of his notable public service, and tenders its deep sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
The late  Sir Elliott  Lewis has left behind him a record of distinguished public service, in both the State and Federal spheres. He was a member of the Tasmanian House of Assembly from 1S86 to 1903, and again from 1909 to 1922. He was AttorneyGeneral of Tasmania from August, 1892, to April, 1894, and Premier and Attorney-General from October, 1899, to April, 1903. For a short period in 1909, and again from October, 3909, to June, 1912, he was Premier and Treasurer of the State. He was Treasurer and Minister for Mines from April, 1916, to March, 1922, and Chief Secretary from March to June, 1922. However, it is particularly of his activities in the federal sphere that I wish to speak this afternoon. He was a member of a federal convention during 1S97 and 1S98, and a member of the first Commonwealth Ministry, although not a member of the First Commonwealth Parliament. From 1933 he held the high office of Lieutenant-Governor of Tasmania. For his meritorious services he was honoured by the King with the distinction of K.C.M.G. His sterling character and high ideals won for him a high place in the esteem of the people. To his widow and family we extend our sincere sympathy in their great loss. 
.- I second the motion, and associate myself to the full with the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  I knew the late  Sir Elliott  Lewis as a public man since 1903, when I first entered the Tasmanian Parliament, and I say without hesitation that no man in Tasmania earned the respect and confidence of the people of that State more than he did. As a Minister, he was always reliable and sound in his judgment; in his private capacity and in business he was esteemed by every section of the community as a true gentleman. The record of his life shows how much he was appreciated, not only by those more directly associated with the political life of Tasmania, but also by the people of that State generally.  His  death will be a heavy loss to Tasmania. I endorse to the full the expression of sympathy with Lady Lewis and the family of the deceased gentleman. 
I also associate myself with the motion. For many years I was a colleague of the late  Sir Elliott  Lewis in the House of Assembly of Tasmania, and can. speak with first-hand knowledge of his sterling qualities and unswerving devotion to duty at all times. Tasmania is the poorer by his passing. I also tender my sinceresympathy to Lady Lewis and the other members of the bereaved family. 
.- I support the motion. My association with tho late  Sir Elliott  Lewis, unlike that of previous speakers, was not in the realm of politics, but in the business world. Recently I attended with him two business meetings, and only last week he appeared to me to be in good health. I, too, can speak of the sterling qualities of the deceased gentleman and of his devotion to duty, and I offer my sincere sympathy to Lady Lewis and the other members of his family in their great bereavement. I am sure that every section of the community in Tasmania deeply regrets the passing of so notable a citizen as  Sir Elliott  Lewis - a man who did so much, both politically and commercially, for his native country. 

 Senator COLLINGS (Queensland) [3.54  1  . - I associate the members of the Opposition with the motion before the Senate, as well as with the expression of sympathy with the relatives of the late  Sir Elliott  Lewis. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.55]. -  by leave  - I desire to announce to the Senate that  His  Majesty the King has been pleased to appoint Brigadier-General the Honorable  Sir Alexander  Gore Arkwright HoreRuthven, V.C., K.C.M.G., CB., D.S.O., Governor of the State of New South Wales, to succeed the Right Honorable  Sir Isaac  Alfred Isaacs, G.C.M.G., as Governor-General and Commander-in Chief in and over the Commonwealth of Australia.  Sir Alexander  Hore-Ruthven will assume the office of Governor-General as soon after the 21st January, 1936, as can be conveniently arranged. 
[3.56]. -  by leave  - I desire to inform honorable senators that  His Excellency Mr. Katsuji  Debuchi, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to  His  Imperial Japanese Majesty. arrived at Brisbane on the 14th August by the SS.  Karno Maru,  and was welcomed on behalf of the Commonwealth Government by the Honorable J. A. J. Hunter, who conveyed to  His Excellency  a personal message from the Prime Minister.  Mr. Debuchi  proceeded by train to Sydney where he was met by the Honorable R. Archdale Parkhill, Minister for Defence, and on the 15th August he embarked on the SS.  Marama  for New Zealand. 

 Mr. Debuchi returned to Sydney on the 4th September, when his official mission to the Commonwealth actually commenced. He was there met by me as Minister for External Affairs, and I accompanied him during the visits to the Federal Capital Territory and the State of Victoria. 
The purpose of the mission of  Mr. Debuchi,  who is a gentleman of very high standing and has had a distinguished diplomatic career in Korea, China, Germany, and the United States of America, was to reciprocate the Australian Goodwill Mission to Japan last year of the Right Honorable  Sir John  Latham, then  Deputy  Prime Minister, Attorney-General and Minister for External Affairs of the Commonwealth . 

 Mr. Debuchi reached Canberra on the 4th September, and was received by the Right Honorable the Prime Minister. He was entertained on that evening by the Commonwealth Government at a State dinner at Parliament House. 

 Mr. Debuchi's tour in Australia included visits to the States of Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland, to which it was necessarily restricted by the period of time available for his stay in New Zealand and Australia. 
The Commonwealth Government highly appreciates the honour paid to Australia by the Government of Japan in sending the mission, and the people of Australia have been charmed with  Mr. Debuchi's  delightful and entertaining personality.  Mr. Debuchi  and his staff greatly impressed all our people who met them, and the Government is convinced that this mission and that of  Sir John  Latham to Japan have done much to strengthen and extend the friendly relations which have at all times existed between Japan and Australia. 
[3.58].-  by leave-  The Commonwealth Government has been gravely concerned by the Italo-Abyssinian dispute, and has given the most careful consideration to the position of Australia in relation thereto in the light of our obligations under the Covenant of the League of Nations and the various agreements for the settlement of international disputes by peaceful means. 
In order properly to appreciate the situation, it is necessary to trace the history of the dispute. This I shall do as briefly as possible. 
In connexion with the so-called " partition" of Africa among the main European powers during the latter half of the last century, Italy, soon after its birth as a united nation, began to turn its eyes towards Abyssinia, which was known to be a rich and relatively unexploited country, whereas the Italian colonies in North Africa consisted mostly of arid regions of little economic importance. The result of the colonial enterprises of Great Britain, France and Italy was that the ancient Empire of Ethiopia was deprived of all sea coast and completely surrounded by the colonies of these three powers. 
Italy became involved in numerous frontier and other disputes with Abyssinia, and in 1887 a small Italian force was annihilated at Dogali by the Abyssinian General Ras Alula. Indignation was aroused in Italy, and war  on  Abyssinia was declared. Italy consolidated its position on the Red Sea coast, and joined forces with Menelik, the King of Shoa, against the Ethiopian Emperor, whose death at that time resulted in the enthronement of Menelik as Emperor in his stead. 
By an Italo-Abyssinian treaty of 1889, the frontiers were defined in such a manner as considerably to extend the Italian possessions in this region, and it was provided that Abyssinia should use Italy as intermediary in its dealings with other European powers. Later, an Italian loan to Abyssinia was secured on the latter's customs duties, which Italy was to administer if the interest were not paid regularly. 
Abyssinia some time later repudiated part of the 1889 treaty, and eventually war was declared by Italy against Menelik in 1894. After winning several victories, the Italians were defeated in 1S96 at Adowa, where they sustained considerable losses. By the peace which was then concluded, Italy recognized the complete independence of Abyssinia, and notified the Powers to that effect, while the boundaries were vaguely denned by a treaty of 1896, and by another signed in 190S. By these treaties the frontier of Italian Somaliland was to follow a line ISO miles from the coast, whereas all the territory of Ogaden, and all that of the tribes towards Ogaden, should remain dependent on Abyssinia. 
Abyssinia holds that according to these treaties Walwal is well within the Ethiopian boundary, but during the last fewyears the Italians have raised the frontier question, and sought to establish their claim to the Walwal wells. The Italians claim that Walwal and Wardair, where incidents have occurred, form part of the Sultanate of Obbia, taken over by the Italians in 1889, and do not belong to Ogaden; that is to say, it is the territory of a tribe towards the coast within the meaning of the 1908 agreement. 
That brief summary brings us to the immediate causes of the present dispute. These are based upon disagreement as to Abyssinia's status as a member of the League of Nations; the interpretation of certain treaties; and frontier hostilities. Italy complains that Abyssinia has invariably pursued a course of hostility, and that the economic concessions implied in a treaty of friendship and arbitration entered into between the two countries in 1928 have never been granted. 
Abyssinia was admitted as a member of the League of Nations after some discussion in 1923, subject to certain conditions as to the control of slavery and the traffic in arms. Italy was one of the supporters of Abyssinia's admission. Now, however, Italy questions the right of Abyssinia to remain a member on the grounds that slavery and other abuses still exist within its borders, and that the Emperor, Haile Selassie, is only a nominal ruler, with no real control of the outlying tribes, and is unable to control his countrymen so as to prevent border raids and such occurrences as those at Walwal and Wardair. Italy claims that Abyssinia is not a civilized country within the meaning of the Covenant of the League, and, therefore, urges thai Abyssinia should be excluded from membership. 
A serious clash occurred at Walwal on the 5th December, 1934, between the Abyssinians and Italians. On the day following began a series of verbal and written exchanges between Abyssinia and Italy, each side accusing the other of unwarranted aggression. Abyssinia asked for arbitration under the 1928 treaty, which provides for the submission to arbitration of disputes between Italy and Abyssinia. Italy demanded apologies from the Governor at Harrar, a salute to the Italian flag at Walwal punishment of the offenders, and £20,000 compensation. 
On the 14th December, Abyssinia summarized the position in a note to the League of Nations Secretariat, and, after continued refusal by Italy to submit to arbitration on the ground that the aggression was unwarranted, Abyssinia finally appealed to the League on. the 31st January, 1935, under Article 11 of the Covenant. This article provides that any threat of war is a matter of concern to the whole League, and that the League shall take any action that may be deemed wise and effectual to safeguard the peace of nations. Moreover, in the case of any such emergency the Secretary-General shall, on the request of any member of the League, summon a meeting of the Council. After some persuasion, Italy decided to submit the question to arbitration, in consideration of which Abyssinia agreed that the League should postpone discussion of its appeal until the next session of the Council in May. 
In the meantime a further clash occurred at Afdub, whereupon it was announced on the 11th February that Italy had mobilized two divisions numbering about 30,000 men for duty on the Italo-Ethiopian frontier. 
In the correspondence which followed, it became clear that difficulties had arisen with regard to the arbitration proceedings. On the one hand, Abyssinia wished to submit the whole boundary question to the arbitrators, while, on the other, Italy insisted upon limitation of  the discussions to the  Walwal  incident. It was suggested that a neutral zone should be established in the  GerlogubiAdoWalwalAfdub  quadrilateral, and after some argument this was done on the 4th March. 
There remained, nevertheless, the differences of opinion regarding the arbitrators' terms of reference. Abyssinia, following the 1928 treaty, suggested the establishment of a Conciliation Commission. It then made a second appeal to the League under both Articles 15 and 10 of the Covenant on the ground that there existed between Ethiopia and the Royal Italian Government a dispute likely to lead to a rupture. 
Eventually Italy agreed to the appeal coming before the Council. On the 12th April, the two countries agreed to the appointment of a Conciliation Commission, as provided hy the treaty of 1928, and the appeal was again postponed to the ordinary meeting of the Council in May. 
Further disagreement arose as to the appointment of Commissioners. The 1928 treaty did not specify the nationality of the nominees. In consequence, when Abyssinia nominated a Frenchman and an American, Italy objected on the ground that only nationals of the two parties to the dispute were eligible. 
Each country, however, continued to arm and to protest against the other's arming. The Italian press accused Great Britain and certain other powers of supplying arms to Abyssinia, but the accusation was categorically denied so far as Great Britain was concerned by the British Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who maintained that no licences to export arms to Abyssinia had been either issued or applied for since the Walwal incident. Abyssinia countered on the 13th May with yet another appeal to the League to see that its independence and integrity were respected. 
It was decided, therefore, to bring the matter before the Council immediately. On the 25th May, with  Mr. Eden  and M. Laval as rapporteurs, the matter was discussed and Italy recognized the League's standing in the dispute, and withdrew its objection regarding the nationality of Abyssinia's nominees on the Commission. 
It was decided that, if the four Commissioners nominated had not agreed by the 25th July to the selection of a fifth arbitrator or the extension of the period, the Council should meet again. If a fifth arbitrator were chosen, but no final settlement were arrived at by the 25 th August, the Council should meet after that date. 
Despite this agreement, Italy continued to mass troops on the frontier. Abyssinia protested and invited the League to send neutral observers to investigate the existing position. 
At this stage, Great Britain, which had been watching the progress of the dispute with close interest, decided to intervene in the interests of peace. The Minister for League of Nations Affairs  (Mr. Eden)  was sent to Rome to sound Signor Mussolini on the proposal that Great Britain might be prepared to cede to Abyssinia the port of Zeila  and a narrow quarter through British Somaliland on condition that Abyssinia made certain territorial and economic concessions to Italy. Great Britain was to ask nothing for itself, with the exception of certain small grazing rights for its Somaliland tribes. This proposition Signor Mussolini refused, and  Mr. Eden  was forced to report to the House of Commons on the 1st July that to pursue this line of settlement further would be useless. 
Meanwhile, the Conciliation Commission had met on. the 25th June. On the 9th July it suspended its sittings indefinitely, the reason for the -breakdown being the fundamental cleavage of opinion regarding the terms of reference. The Italian Commissioners contended that the commission had power to deal only with the  Walwal  incident, and refused to hear evidence to the effect that Walwal was in Abyssinian territory. To the proposal of the Abyssinian members to appoint a fifth arbitrator, the Italians objected on the ground that the question involved was the competence of the commission, and could not be solved by such an appointment. 
In consequence of the deadlock, the Council of the League met on the 31st July to consider the situation. Italy agreed to send a delegate on the express condition that the Council should limit its discussions to the work of the Conciliation Commission. This precluded  the wider discussion of Italo-Abyssinian relations which most of the members of the Council had desired. 
Abyssinia was prevailed upon to abstain from pressing a consideration of the whole situation, and the discussion was therefore limited according to the wishes of Italy. At this juncture a tendency by Great Britain and France to co-operate with one another became manifest. These two Powers collaborated in the drafting of a resolution providing for (a) resumption of the Conciliation Commission sittings; (i&gt;) appointment of a fifth arbitrator; and (c) the holding of conversations between three parties to the 1906 agreement, namely, Great Britain, France, and Italy, with the object of finding a basis of settlement. A motion on these lines was agreed to by Italy and adopted by the Council on the 3rd August. 
It was agreed that the commission should limit itself to a discussion of the Walwal and other incidents, and report its findings to the Council when next it met - on the 4th September. It was also decided that the French and British representatives should report the success or otherwise of the Three-Power conversations on that date. 
Representatives of Great Britain, France, and Italy met in Paris on the 16th August. It is understood that Baron Aloisi made certain suggestions as a basis of negotiation. The most important of these was that the United Kingdom and France should recognise Italian economic and political preponderance in Abyssinia. Great Britain and France, while willing to recognize Italy's economic interest in Abyssinia, could not agree to political preponderance, which doubtless would involve annexation of a large portion of Abyssinia and a measure of control over the remainder. 
These suggestions were rejected by Great Britain and France. After consultation with the Emperor of Abyssinia, they suggested as a basis of discussion certain economic concessions and some satisfaction in the way of appointment of technical advisers. These concessions, together with the right of settlement in some parts of Abyssinia, would  give  to Italy, by peaceful means, a substantial portion of  what it might seek by war. 
This basis of discussion proved unacceptable to Italy, which apparently insisted on some measure of political control. Italy, however, reserved its right to intervene during the discussion of the dispute at Geneva. An official communique was issued by the Conference to the effect that it had been unable to find a basis of discussion which would permit of a solution of the dispute. It was further decided to continue, through diplomatic channels, the study of the suggestions which had been submitted. 

 Mr. Bruce was instructed, on the 30th August, that the policy of the Commonwealth Government was one of close cooperation with the Government of the United Kingdom in continued efforts to settle the dispute by peaceful means, and to maintain the principles of the League. 
No further progress had been made when the Council of the League of Nations met on the 4th September. On that date the Italian delegate submitted the case of his country against Abyssinia, which was supported by voluminous documentation, and Abyssinia replied on the following day. 
The Council proceeded to set up a small committee consisting of  Mr. Eden  (Great Britain), M. Laval (France), Senor de Madariaga (Spain),  Colonel Beck  (Poland), and M. Aras (Turkey), to examine the dispute and the possibilities of conciliatory settlement. 
The earlier Arbitration Commission under the 192S Treaty between Italy and Abyssinia, which was inquiring into the Walwal incident, reported on the 3rd September that it found that neither Italy nor Abyssinia was to blame in connexion with this affair. 
On the 11th September .the British Foreign Secretary,  Sir Samuel  Hoare, made a momentous statement on British policy before the League Assembly, which had opened two days earlier. He declared that Great Britain stood for the maintenance of the Covenant in its entirety, and particularly for steady collective resistance to all acts of unprovoked aggression. He said that  His  Majesty's Government was second to none in its intention to fulfil, within the measure of its capacity, the obligations laid upon it  by  the Covenant of the League of Nations. 
Other members of the League, including Canada, South Africa, New Zealand, and the Irish Free State, announced their intention to adhere firmly to the principles of the League.  Mr. Bruce,  the Australian representative, referred to the adverse effect of the dispute on the postwar structure for the maintenance of peace by collective action and the renunciation of war, and urged that, while the Conciliation Committee of the League Council had the problem under review, speakers should avoid dealing with the dispute in any manner which might add to the difficulties of a solution. 
Advice has now been received that the sub-committee of the Council, which has been investigating the dispute with a view to the submission to the Council of a draft basis for settlement, has arrived at certain conclusions which have been communicated to Italy and Abyssinia for consideration. This basis briefly contemplates a considerable measure of administrative and other assistance to Abyssinia under the auspices of the League, directed by a delegate of the League, and including foreign advisers; re-organization of the police to ensure the security of foreigners and the observance of frontiers; and foreign participation in the economic development of Abyssinia. Moreover, certain territorial concessions would be made by France and the United Kingdom .to Abyssinia, which would cede a considerable area to Italy. 
While it is understood that this basis has been accepted by Abyssinia, subject to the condition that Italy shall not be given any special economic concession, advice has been received that the Italian Government has decided that the subcommittee's proposals are unacceptable as not providing a minimum basis of discussion, but the official Italian reply has not yet been received at Geneva. It remains now to be seen whether, after the receipt of the Italian reply, the Council sub-committee will adhere to its recommendations, and submit them to the full Council for discussion with a view to the adoption of a "report" as to the basis of settlement of the dispute. 
If such report is unanimously agreed to by the members of the Council other than one or both of the parties to the dispute, the members of the League are obliged, under Article 15 of the Covenant, not to go to war with a party to the dispute which complies with the recommendations of the report. If the report is not unanimous, members of the League have " the right to take such action as they shall consider necessary for the maintenance of right and justice ". 
But, in any event, members have undertaken by Article 12 of the Covenant in no case to resort to war until three months after the report of the Council. Should any member resort to war in disregard of the foregoing undertakings, it shall,  ipso facto,  under Article 16, be deemed to have committed an act of war against all other members of the League, which have undertaken by the Covenant immediately to subject such member to the severance of all trade or financial relations, the prohibition of all intercourse between their nationals and the nationals of the covenant-breaking State, and the prevention of all financial, commercial, or personal intercourse between the nationals of the covenant-breaking State and the nationals of any other State, whether a member of the League or not. Moreover, under Article 16, it shall be the duty of the Council to recommend to the several governments concerned what effective military, naval or air force the members of the League shall severally contribute to the armed forces to be used to protect the covenants of the League. Finally, under Article 10 of the Covenant, members of the League have undertaken to respect and preserve, as against external aggression, the territorial and existing political independence of all members of the League. 
The Commonwealth Government, while convinced that the upholding of the principles of collective security embodied in the League of Nations is essential to the world's peace, desires to point out that none of the provisions of the Covenant has been violated by either Italy or Abyssinia. The Government feels that discussion on these matters should not, at this juncture, assume that either of these countries will violate any of its obligations in this regard. It therefore seems unwise either to anticipate any breach, or to announce in advance the course of action to be followed by the Commonwealth Government in contingencies the nature and circumstances of which cannot at present be foreseen. "While fully recognizing the gravity of the present situation, the Government holds very strongly that it ought not, either by word or by action, to embarrass those who are earnestly striving to effect a peaceful settlement. I move - 
That the paper be printed. 
I shall give to the Senate an outline of the attitude of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party as agreed to by unanimous resolution at a meeting of the party this morning. It represents, so far as we are able to judge, the opinion of Labour organizations throughout Australia. 
Australia has been looking to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  to make a definite pronouncement as to his Government's attitude on the Abyssinian crisis. Weeks ago, the other dominions declared their attitude. On the 8th September, the Prime Minister of Canada was reported to have said - 
Canadians will not be embroiled in any foreign quarrel in which the rights of Canadians are not involved. We have bought and paid for security and peace, and we wean to have them. 
The Defence Minister of South Africa stated that no son of that country would fire a shot without the people being consulted. 
As uncontradicted statements appeared in the newspapers that Australia had been committed right up to the hilt there was a growing feeling that the Commonwealth Government had blundered into a decision that might involve Australia in war. 
While the Australian Labour Party's platform provides for adequate home defence against foreign aggression, it also contains a proviso against raising forces for service outside the Commonwealth, or participation, or promise of participation, in any future overseas war, except by the decision of the people. While we admire the efforts of countries that have been striving to settle the dispute in a peaceful manner, and particularly the way in which. Great Britain has endeavoured to have conciliation used in this dispute, we strongly hold the view that. Australia should not allow the statesmen of any country to determine this country's course of action. 
The Commonwealth Government should instruct its delegate at Geneva that Australia will not be a party to war. Surely there is no more reason why Australia should become involved to-day than there was when four provinces were wrested from China by an original member of the League of Nations. If it were not for the oil fields of Abyssinia and other rich natural resources desired by great vested interests there would nor. be  manoeuvrings  for war; there would be the same apathy that was shown regarding the invasion of Manchuria. 
Only recently it was announced that  Abysinnia  had sold the rights to exploit the oil wealth of the country to American and British interests. The price to be paid was £10,000,000. Under pressure however, the concessionaries withdrew. It is immaterial to the masses of the people of Australia how those oil fields are eventually distributed. Therefore we should keep out of this sordid quarrel over mineral and other wealth. 
We sincerely hope that war will be averted; the control of Abyssinia by any country is not worth the loss of a single Australian life. 
While the Australian Labour party is opposed to Australia's participation in a foreign war over Abyssinia it does not for one moment seek to justify Italy's attitude. 
We should remember the price of the last war when 7,000,000 lives were lost and the financial cost was £40,000,000,- 000. The price Great Britain had to pay for the holocaust was a war debt of £7',500,000,000. The cost to Australia, according to the last issue of the Commonwealth  Tear-Booh,  amounted to £S1.2,000,000, including expenditure from war loans and consolidated revenue. The annual interest bill, as a direct result, is £8,000,000. Also 60,000 Australians were killed and 160,000 wounded. In addition to the tremendous burden of debt and interest, hundreds of thousands of our people were plunged into an abyss of grief and misery on account of the loss of their loved ones on the battlefields of Europe and Asia. 
Many of the economic burdens that are weighing down the world to-day are the direct outcome of the last war, which left a trail of misery unparalleled in history. Although we were told it was a war to end war the world to-day is on the edge of another grave cataclysm. 
The attitude of the Australian Labour party is clear and unequivocal. It wants no war on foreign fields for economic treasure. It wants Australia to be kept free of the entanglements leading to a repetition of the horrors of 1914-18. Therefore the Australian Labour party for which I speak to-day says " Non-participation ". 
Debate (on motion by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan) adjourned. 
I have received the following communication from His Excellency the Governor-General :  - 
[8.10]. -  by leave  - I desire to inform honorable senators that a rearrangement of duties of some members of the Cabinet has been effected. 
The Honorable H. V. C. Thorby will assist the Minister for Commerce, as well as have charge of War Service Homes.  Senator the  Honorable T. C. Brennan will continue to assist in the administration of the Department of Commerce. 
The Honorable J. A. J. Hunter has taken over the duties of Assistant Minister for Repatriation  vice  Mr. Thorby,  and will also assist the Minister for the Interior. 
It is the intention of the Government to introduce as early as practicable a bill to make provision for the appointment of an additional Minister of State, the number being at present limited by the Ministers of State Act 1917 to a maximum of nine. When the requisite provision has been made by the Parliament, it is proposed to submit to the Governor-General the name of the Honorable R. G. Casey, at present Assistant Treasurer, with a view to his definite appointment as Treasurer. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  (1) Is it a fact that the Broken Hill Proprietary Limited intend to have one or two vessels constructed overseas? (2) If so, will the Government communicate with this company and urge that in view of the protection granted to this firm, and its economic value and importance to the Commonwealth, the vessels be constructed in Australia? 
[8.22].- I lay on the table- 
Estimates of receipts and expenditure, and estimates of expenditure for additions, new works, buildings, &amp;c, for the year ending 30th June, 1930. 
The Budget 1935-36 - Papers presented by the Honorable R. G. Casey, M.P., on the occasion of the budget of 1935-36. and move - 
That the papers be printed. 
For the information of a number of senators who are new to the Senate procedure in respect of money bills, I may say that in the early years of federation, in order to give honorable senators an opportunity to discuss the financial proposals of the Government simultaneously with the budget debate in the House of 
Representatives, the practice was adopted of presenting with the Estimates and budget-papers what is practically an epitome of the Government's financial policy, and moving " that the papers be printed ". 
The Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  is this evening presenting  the budget in the House of Representatives. In doing so, he will emphasize the fact that the Government, since its return to power, has done everything possible and with considerable success, to assist in the great work of recovery from depression and to relieve unemployment. His speech will review the present hopeful position with regard to export prices and overseas trade generally, and will also refer to the evidence of internal recovery and returning business activity within the Commonwealth. 
In 1934-35, revenue receipts amounted to £76,252,000, and expenditure to £75,541,000. The excess of receipts over expenditure was therefore £711,000 as compared with the anticipated excess of £14,000. Revenue exceeded the estimate by £4,059,000. The principal increases were : - 

<graphic href="147332193509233_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

The flour tax, which was imposed after the introduction of the budget, yielded £798,000. Miscellaneous revenue decreased by £377,000. 
Increased expenditure included relief to wheat-growers, £4,066,000, which was provided for after the introduction of the last budget. Of this sum, £79S,000 was raised by means of the flour tax, and £3,268,000 was a charge on general revenue. 
 Revenue from the Postmaster-General's Department exceeded the estimate by £565,000, while the expenditure was less than the estimate by £106.000, a total improvement in the transactions of this department of £671,000. 
Conversions of Commonwealth loans in London since October, 1932, now exceed £160,000,000, representing approximately 37 per cent, of the Australian securities held by the public in the United Kingdom. The average rate on the loans dealt with has decreased from an average of £5 2s. 7d. per cent, to an average of £3 13s. 5d. per cent. The terms obtained in recent conversions show a progressive improvement. The short-term debt in London, £33,625,000, is now carried wholly by the Commonwealth Bank. 
The total loans raised in Australia since 1932 amount to £66,564,000, of which £16,500,000 was for the funding of treasury-bills. Loan services continue to be financed by funded loans, and bills issued to finance revenue deficits are funded during the course of each year. The total volume of treasury-bills now outstanding is less than in December, 1932. Since June, 1932, the Commonwealth debt has decreased by £4,700,000. 
The aggregate interest bill for the total Commonwealth and State public debts has decreased from £7 9s. 4d. per head of population in 1921-22 to £7 8s. Id. in 1935-36, after allowing for the present exchange charge on interest payable overseas. From the excess receipts of 1934-35 it is proposed to make a non-recurring unconditional grant of £500,000 to the States to assist their general budgetary position. 
For the year 1935-36 the Government presents a balanced budget. 
It is proposed to lighten the burden of the special income tax on property by reducing the rate from 6 per cent, to 5 per cent., at a cost to the budget of £200,000. No further variations of rates of tax are to be made in respect of land tax, estate duty and ordinary income tax. It is hoped that, during the coming year, legislation will be enacted both by the States and the Commonwealth to give effect to a considerable number of recommendations of the Royal  Commission on Taxation. This proposed legislation will not affect revenue materially, but will bring welcome relief to a large body of taxpayers. 
It is proposed to prescribe further exemptions from sales tax to the amount, of £200,000 for a full year. The law relating to the deposit of securities in connexion with sales tax will be amended to relieve taxpayers. 
Further remissions of primage duty to the amount of £45,000 in 1935-36 will be made to rectify a number of anomalies. 
The total taxation adjustments proposed for 1935-36 are as follow: - 

<graphic href="147332193509233_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

The CommonwealthG rants Commission has recommended that grants to the smaller States be made as follows :  - 
South Australia- £1,500,000 ; increase, £100,000. 
Western Australia- £800,000; increase, £200,000. 
Tasmania - £450,000; increase, £50,000. 
The Government will ask Parliament to approve these increases. The increases granted to these States for the two years 1934-35 and 1935-36 amount to £620,000. 
The Government proposes to grant further benefits toex-members of the Australian Expeditionary Forces in special cases at an annual cost of £350,000, the added expenditure for this year being £175,000. 
The policy of bringing the Defence Forces up to the minimum strength necessary for national security will be continued. The total Defence services for the year are estimated to cost £7,352,000, of which £5,606,000 is provided on the Revenue Estimates and £1,746,000 from the fund previously set aside for this purpose. It is proposed to re-establish the Royal Military College at Duntroon in the present year. 
The number of invalid and old-age pensioners at the 30th June, 1935, was 273,978, an increase of 13,313 during the year. The total expenditure in 1934-35 reached  £1 1,762,000,  the highest, figure recorded. The estimate for the current year shows an increase of slightly over £l,000,000, of which £350,000 is due to the increase in the rate of pension by 6d. due to a rise in the cost of living index number. 
The Government proposes to provide £100,000 for ground organization in connexion with the extension of air mail facilities, and to devote a further £100,000 towards the extension of postal, telegraph and telephone services, especially in country districts. 
It is proposed to restore salaries in the various services and to members of Parliament and Ministers by an amount equal to21/2 per cent. of the salary which would have been paid on the 1930 standard. The reductions as compared with the 1930 standard will then be as follows :  - 
On salaries up to £485 - cost of living reductions only. 
On salaries from £486 to £1,000- 10 per cent. 
On salaries from £1,001 to £2,000- 121/2 per cent. 
On salaries over £2,000 - 15 per cent. 
On allowances of members of Parliament - 15 per cent. 
On salaries of Ministers - 171/2 per cent. 
The partial restoration to the Service will cost £90,000 per annum, and to members and Ministers £3,000 per annum. 
The Government also proposes to make provision for £100,000 towards interest and sinking fund on loans for works for local government bodies with the object of providing employment and additional amenities. 
The cost of the principal new expenditure proposals in 1935-36 may be summarized thus - 

<graphic href="147332193509233_16_1.jpg"></graphic>

The estimated receipts from the flour tax amount to £900,000, which will be hypothecated for the relief of wheatgrowers. Any other action necessary in regard to wheat will be considered later. 
Other proposed benefits to primary producers are - 
A bounty of 2s. a case on oranges exported to the United Kingdom; 
Extension of the subsidy of 15s. a ton on artificial manure to a minimum of half ton lots instead of one ton as in the past; 
Increase of the grant for trade publicity in the United Kingdom from £15,000 to £25,000 per annum; and 
The provision of £120,000 for the services of the Council for Scientific and IndustrialResearch. 
The total proposed expenditure for works 1935-36, is £5,610,000, of which £3,367,000 will be provided from revenue and £2,243,000 from loan. This represents an increase of £2,448,000 on the provision for last year. In addition, £3,000,000 will be provided from loan for adjustment of farmers' debts. 
The estimated budget results for 1935-36 may be summarized as follows: - 

<graphic href="147332193509233_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
[8.37]. -I move- 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I take this opportunity to refer to two ex-senators who have passed away in recent months. Ex-Senator Albert Edward Howarth Blakey, was first elected to the Senate in 1910 and was re-elected after the double dissolution in 1914. He was unsuccessful, however at the general election in 1917. The late senator, who was better known, to an older generation of senators, was a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts from 1914 to 1917. I knew the deceased gentleman well, and recall his genial personality and popularity. He rendered good service to Australia, and on behalf of the Senate I desire to express to the relatives of the late ex-senator our sincere sympathy. 
The late ex-Senator Benny, who died on the 10th February, 1935, was elected to the Senate as a representative of South Australia at the general election of 1919. He was a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts from July, 1923, and of the Royal Commission on National Insurance from 1923 to 1926, and was a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees in 1923. He resigned from the Senate on the 27th January, 1926. On behalf of the Senate, I extend to his widow and family our sincere sympathy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
With reference to the deputation from the local governing bodies in the north-eastern wheat districts of Western Australia, which was received by the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  on behalf of the Federal Government in Perth, asking for special assistance owing to the adverse season,has further consideration been given to the deputation's requests, in the light of the poor crop prospects in thatarea? 
What -action, if any, doesthe Government intendto take in the matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister received protests from the south-west conference of local governing and other bodies (Western Australia) against the competition of the federal railways in carrying cattle to the gold-fields markets of Western Australia at freight rates that are much below those charged on the Western Australian Government railways? 
Has any action been taken to protect the interests of Western Australian producers of cattle in this matter? 
If not, why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister forthe Interior has supplied the following answers :  - 
I, Yes. 2 and 3. The protest made by the . southwest conference was referred to the Commissioner ofCommonwealth Railways whose report indicates that the conference was not fully informed as to the facts. During the year ended 30th June, 1935, only 52 bogie van loads of cattle were conveyed to Kalgoorlie over the trans- Australian railway, an average of about twenty head of cattle a week, which is a very small proportion of the total cattle requirements for killing purposes in an area carrying such a large population . as Kalgoorlie and district. The cost of forwarding a bogie truck of cattle from Port Augusta to Parkeston (where stockex the transAustralian line for the Kalgoorlie abattoirs is transferred to the State railways) is, after allowing a 10 per cent, rebate, £40 9s. 3d.In this must be added £5 a bogie truck levied by the State railways for haulage from Parkeston to Kalgoorlie abattoirs, making the total cost to the South Australian supplier £45 9s. 3d. a bogie. The charge for conveyance of a bogie truck of cattle from Bunbury to Kalgoorlie is £25, and from Harvey to Kalgoorlie £24 10s. 8d. ft will be seen, therefore, that- the freight charges are in favour of the Western' Australian producer especially when the much shorterhaul of live-stock is considered. A letter was addressed to the honorable senator at Perth on the 5th September bythe Minister for the Interior giving full details of theCommonwealth Railways 'Commissioner's report on the matter. 
asked the 
Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the time-table for the Western Australian northern air mail subordinates the interests of Western Australian residents to those of overseas correspondents ? 
Is it a fact that letters from the northwest arrive each Saturday afternoon and are notdelivered in Perth until the Monday morning, alter a delay exceeding 38 hours in Perth? 
Is it a fact that the outgoing air mail to the north-west leaves Perth at 11 a.m. on Sundays - about 24 hours before the incoming mail is delivered? 
Will the time-table be altered so as to permit residents of the north-west to receive replies from Perth and Geraldton by the return aeroplane? 
If not, why not? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
No. The existing arrangements are made in the best interests of the residents of Western Australia, bearing in mind the circumstances prevailing over this lengthy and somewhat difficult air route. 2.Letters addressed to private boxes are sorted immediately on arrival of the mail. Other correspondence is held over fromthe Saturday until the first delivery on Monday morning. 
It is a fact that the outgoing air mail leaves Perth at 11 a.m. on Sunday. See also reply to No. 2. 
ft is at present impracticable to alter the time-table as suggested, and also ensure the outgoing and incoming connexions being made with the overseas mail. 
The great distance to be covered, combined with frequent adverse operating conditions, renders such a scheme unreliable and, generally speaking, impracticable. 
The Minister for Trade and Customs states that inquiries are being made and answers will be furnished to  Senator Johnston  with reference to the utilization of Denham, Shark Bay,Western Australia, as a port of entry for goods from overseas. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received requests for the extension of the trunk telephone system from Geraldton to Shark Bay (Denham) and Carnarvon, Western Australia? 
What is the estimated cost of this work? 
Has the desired extension been approved? 
If not, why not? 
The answers are as follow: - 
Yes. 
£10,000. 
No. 
In view of the very costly nature of the proposal, and the substantial annual loss which would be incurred, the department is unable to proceed with the work at present. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Has the Government decided to reduce the free issue of ammunition to rifle clubs?  2.  If so, what is the extent of the reduction ? 
Why is the reduction, if any, being made? 
Does the Government consider the present an opportune time to reduce the strength of the rifle club movement? 
Excluding ammunition required for rifle association and union prize meetings, which are catered for separately, the average number of rounds drawn by rifle club members per year is 225 out of 400 (200 rounds free and 200 at reduced rate) authorized. The new scale of 300 rounds (100 rounds free and 200 at reduced rate) per member is still 75 rounds per man in excess of the average amount previously drawn. Therefore, the only disadvantage the enthusiastic rifleman will suffer will be that he will be called upon to spend an additional 5s. per year to purchase the extra 100 rounds he previously received as a free issue. Assuming that 7.000.000 rounds of ammunition will be expended annually by rifle clubs under the new scale, it is expected that 4.000,000 of same will be issued free and the balance at £2 10s. per 1,000. Thus, for an outlay of £63,000 in ammunition the department will receive but £7,500, leaving a balance of £55,500 to be made up from departmental votes. 
However, since making the above decision it has been represented that the rifle clubs might hoglad to utilize some of the department's old mark VI. ammunition, which remains in stock as aresult of the switch-over to mark VII. ammunition in 1933. Instructions have therefore been issued that arrangements are to be made forthwith to offer this ammunition to rifle clubs as a free issue (for as long as it lasts) on the following scale: - Efficient members of clubs, 100 rounds per annum; new members of clubs, 50 rounds per annum. These issues are additional to the approved free allotments of 100 rounds and 50 rounds, respectively, of mark VII. ammunition which have already been approved for efficients and new members.. In view of the circumstances which have arisen and the desire of the Government to do its utmost for the rifle club movement, it is hoped that rifle club organizations and members generally will accept the restrictions which circumstances have made it obligatory to impose regarding the free issue of mark VII. ammunition. 
A reference to Estimates will show that an additional £2,281 has been provided for rifle clubs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that application has been made for the entrance of a Russian soccer football team to Australia in 19.36? 
Has the Minister notified the Australian Football Association that this association must lodge a guarantee of £100 for every member of the team coming into this country? 
What guarantee was charged the Chinese soccer team when it visited Australia? 
What guarantee was charged the Czechoslovakian team ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answers: - 
Yes. 
Yes. 
£100 for each member of the team. 
The Chechoslovakian team was admitted in 1927 under a guarantee furnished by the Australian Soccer Football Association, but without a -monetary bond, there being no general restrictions on white alien immigration at that time as there are at present. 
.  - From the very temperate statement made by the Minister for External Affairs  (Senator Pearce)  on this matter has emerged a discussion of firstrate importance to Australia, and particularly to this chamber. The honorable senator who now leads the Opposition in this branch of the legislature has raised the subject of Australia's relationships with the outside world, and the question whether we should still adhere to the previous foreignpolicy which was accepted, not only by this dominion, but also by every other member of the British Commonwealth of Nations. At the moment we appear to have allowed the object for which the Mother Country is at present striving to be magnified into something which is not justified by the facts. I join with the honorable senator, as I should, in deploring any prospect of another war. I support him in all that he has said regarding the horrors, consequences and general disability to civilization that  ensue from settling disputes by armed conflicts between nations; but I cannot subscribe to that doctrine and at the same time condemn and refuse cooperation with the only instrument mankind has yet devised for collective action to ensure the security of the peoples of the world. The policy that Great Britain and each of the dominions has adopted is well expressed, I think, in a speech made bythe Secretary of Foreign Affairs  (Sir Samuel Hoare)  in the House of Commons on the 11th July last, whenhe said - 
Over and over again we have stated, and no one better than the Prime Minister, our fidelity to the League and its principles, and I reaffirm it to-day. This has been the settled policy of this Government, but it has also been the settled policy of every government since the war. It is the settled policy, not of one party, but of all parties in the State. We are all, therefore, in duty bound to do our utmost to prevent the development of any crisis that is likely to weaken or destroy the principles upon which the League was built, and upon which its influence for peace depends. This is the reason for our grave interest in the Abyssinian controversy. This is the reason why, even at the risk of criticism, we have been prepared to make constructive proposals for the avoidance of a war that, however it ends, must have serious repercussionsupon the whole League system. This is our sole reason for our efforts to find a basis of settlement. Here in this House, at any rate, I need not repeat in detail the complete contradiction that we have given to the wild statements as to our motives and our action that have been made in certain sections of the Italian press. We have no ulterior motive but the motive of a peaceful settlement, and the statements that we are thinking of our own colonial interests and that we are massing troops in the neighbouring British colonies are completely devoid of foundation. I trust that my contradiction will be given the fullest possible publicity in any Italian papers that made themselves responsible for these groundless charges. 
That is a considered statement of the policy of the Mother Country in regard to foreign affairs. Speaking during the debate,  Mr. Anthony  Eden, in dealing with the same matter, observed - 
Let me deal with one or two questions which have been asked about Abyssinia. The first charge brought against us is that we are interfering in a dispute with which we have no concern. This Government, and other governments which have preceded us, have repeatedly declared that they founded their foreign policy upon their membership of the League. If this is hot merely an empty declaration, it is impossible to maintain for a moment that this dispute is no concern of ours, for it is an essential feature of the Covenant that any dispute between two members of the League which threatens to disturb peace is a matter of concern to all governments. If, then, we found our foreign policy upon the League, this dispute is and must remain a matter of immediate and vital concern to us. 
Yet yesterday the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate told us solemnly that the policy of his party is one of nonparticipation ! Non-participation in what? 
Nonparticipation in one of the noblest efforts made by any country to prevent this ghastly thing which he deplores ! Nonparticipation connotes that  we  must renounce the instrument that was created by a trembling and shivering civilization after the last war for its own protection. The alternative is to maintain those covenants which we solemnly signed-- 
Either we must stand by the League, or resort to the only means which, prior to the constitution of the . League, maintained the peace of the world - the strong right arm. 
From the inception of the League, this country, in common with the sister dominions and the Motherland, has adhered to the principles of that organization. We have given expression to our determination in that direction, and I myself, with trembling hand, in 1928 signed the Kellogg Pact as an instrument not in contradistinction to the policy of the League, but implementing it, and outlawing war. We have stood to that policy; we are standing by it to-day; and the Mother Country, in an endeavour to save a wondering civilization from those consequences to which the honorable senator so ' eloquently and feelingly referred yesterday, is " doing its bit " in the interests of civilization. Surely it does not lie with us, or any responsible body of people, to refuse to back to its utmost, in the interests of the whole world, irrespective of class or creed, the efforts of the Motherland, which has done more for peace than any other organization in the world to-day. We should not say that we shall not participate any further in those magnificent efforts which have been made and which. I trust will he successful, to preserve the peace of the world. Should this dispute, small as it may seem to the honorable senator opposite, result in hostilities between Italy and Abyssinia, it may lead to the destruction of old Europe. 
The honorable senator takes the short view and says " Preserve Australia ". The preservation of Australia, since the constitution of the League of Nations, has rested upon the collective security enjoyed under the covenant of the League, and there is no nation which requires that protection more than a country with less than 7,000,000 inhabitants. It is a tribute to the old Mother Country, with its overwhelming influence and strong arm, and its capacity to arm, and it is a tribute to the British people, that they have supported the League of Nations, which has been the shield and buckler of all the small nations of the world, and is today, forsooth, the shield and buckler of this isolated part of the Empire. The honorable senator has raised a question of the first magnitude. "What does his talk of protecting Australia by a policy of non-participation connote except that we have been wrong during the fifteen years of our adherence to the League of Nations and its covenant; wrong in participating in its deliberations; wrong in taking our seat on its Council; wrong in endeavouring to assist the other dominions and the Mother Country to preserve the peace of the world? Nonparticipation connotes that Australia should withdraw its membership of the League of Nations. 
The honorable senator urged non-participation by Australia. Non-participation in what? Does he assume that either the Mother Country or Australia is committed to war? "We are committed only to an adherence to the Covenant which the people of this country hold dear and which I know the people of Europe hold dear. The Labour party says " nonparticipation ". Are we in Australia to beat a retreat from a Covenant which is the finest conception of mankind for the preservation of world peace? Are we by nonparticipation to refrain from assisting in that wonderful work which the Motherland is doing to-day in the interests of the human race? 
There is no point of order. 
I am prepared to abide by the honorable senator's own words as recorded in the  Hansard  report of his speech. My deductions are based on his concluding remarks - 
The attitude of the Australian Labour party is clear and unequivocal. It wants no war on foreign fields for economic treasure. It wants Australia to be kept free of the entanglements leading to a repetition of the horrors of 1914-18. Therefore, the Australian Labour party, for which I speak to-day, says " non-participation ". 
Again I ask the honorable senator - nonparticipation in what? 
Now that the honorable senator finds himself in a cul-de-sac he is looking for a way of escape. Nonparticipation means withdrawing from the League, and dissociating ourselves from the efforts of the Mother Country to secure peace. If the honorable senator suggests that the Mother Country is committed to war, I remind him that its spokesmen have carefully and fully explained its attitude in that connexion; they have said that the Mother Country is no longer prepared to accept the whole of the burden of safeguarding civilization, and that whatever action is taken for the prevention of war must be the collective action of all the members of the League of Nations. The honorable senator cannot escape so easily from the position in which he has placed himself. He should have known before he came into this chamber that neither the Commonwealth Government nor the British Government is committed to any act of war. He should have known - and I think that he did know, because he keeps closely in touch with affairs - that the assumption which appears to underlie his statement, namely, that we are in some way pledged to war, is utterly wrong. He endeavoured to make it appear that the Government was pledged to take drastic action. That is not so. The honorable senator went on to say that the Commonwealth Government was blindly following Great Britain, which was committed to war. He ought to know that the facts are that Great Britain has declared against unilateral action. Security is the responsibility of all the signatories to the Covenant of the League of Nations. Knowing these things, the honorable senator is blowing hot and cold, when he talks of non-participation. And even if he did not mean exactly what he said when he spoke of non-participation, there can be only one logical consequence of such a policy; non-participation must involve retirement from the League of Nations. The policy which Australia has followed is the same as that adopted by Great Britain and the other dominions. That policy has been expressed, not by individual Ministers, but by the representatives of the respective governments at the League of Nations Assembly. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 16th September, the attitude of New Zealand towards the Italo-Abyssinian dispute, as set forth by  Sir James  Parr, was reported. Later the views of the other dominions were expressed by their representatives. In each case there was support of the attitude of the Mother Country in its efforts to preserve peace. Probably the person who would bo thought least likely to support that attitude is  Mr. De  Valera of the Irish Free State; but he was the most outspoken of them all. The report of his speech reads - 
With bitter irony he spoke of the peace conference which would follow the war when a settlement would be reached because the parties were ruined and exhausted. He appealed for  a  relaxation of conservatism regarding colonial possessions before the slaughter began. He committed himself wholeheartedly to the policy which South Africa, Canada and New Zealand, and other parts of the Empire had adopted. He came down solidly against Mussolini with a pledge of the Free State to support collective action. 
The honorable senator seems anxious to find in the utterance of some Minister the policy of the Canadian Government. I look for the policy of that Government in the speech delivered by its representative at Geneva, and I find that it proposes to pursue the same policy as that adopted by the Mother Country. Canada is prepared to accept its responsibility to civilization under the Covenant of the League of Nations. There is no talk of either participation or non-participation, but only wholehearted support of the Mother Country. The attitude adopted by the Opposition is an improper one for any party which believes that peace can flow only from collective action. I go further and say that it is almost a crime against civilization to interfere with, or even to denounce, what Great Britain has done. It is our duty to lend every aid to those who are searching for a way to maintain the peace of Africa, and with it the peace of Europe, and possibly also the peace of the whole world. The hypotheses upon which the honorable gentleman based some of his remarks were entirely wrong. The honorable senator is endeavouring to justify this policy of non-participation by the suggestion that what is happening is the result of some imperial outlook on the part of the nations concerned which, he implies, hope to get something out of Abyssinia. I invite the Senate to study the trade figures of that country. Its exports to Great Britain are limited, and its imports from Great Britain are still more limited. Japan figures largely in the trade of Abyssinia. Therefore, the statement that there is anything sinister in the attitude of Great Britain towards the ItaloAbyssinian dispute is truly futile. What does the honorable senator suggest is Britain's sinister motive in this matter ? 

 Senator Collings mentioned that  President  De Valera also is opposed to participation by the Irish Free State in this dispute. Actually,  Mr. De 
Valera is standing with the rest of the Empire, because he believes in that magnificent conception, the League of Nations, the purpose of which is to preserve the peace of the world. The League is doing this, but the honorable senator would give it a kick along the road by declaring for a policy of nonparticipation! That is the only logical conclusion to be drawn from the honorable senator's remarks. 
What alternative does the honorable senator suggest ? 
There is nothing constructive in the statement of the honorable senator, though possibly it will give some comfort to those who desire to subvert the efforts to ensure peace in the world. It is a devilish doctrine to pronounce at. such a time as this - a doctrine which, if accepted, would threaten and perhaps destroy the foundations of the League of Nations. 
Are we to treat these covenants so solemnly entered into as scraps of paper? Is it not our duty to make every effort to prevent a holocaust being inflicted on the world? I think better of the great party to which the honorable senator belongs than to believe that it would turn, from its support of solemn covenants of the League at such a moment as this. The League is the one hope of civilization. 
The honorable senator apparently gets some comfort from the failure of the League in some of the other crises with which it has been faced. I put it to the Senate that the possibility of the failure of the League is one not lightly to be contemplated. The honorable senator has, on behalf of his party, struck a note of the first importance when he suggests that we should abandon the League. 
The honorable gentleman urged " nonparticipation". What else does it mean? Nonparticipation in what? Great Britain has said that it will not alone take the whole responsibility for ensuring peace. 
It wants collective security. It expects the responsibility to be borne by all the signatories to the Covenant. How far is the honorable senator going to participate in these Covenants? Is he going to be bound by one article of the Covenant and repudiate others which impose upon us certain responsibilities? That is a shameful policy to preach to Australians who have given their adherence to the League, have subscribed to the Kellogg Pact, and have been directly represented in the League Council. The time may soon come when we shall have to make fateful decisions; but this is not the time to palter with matters of such great moment. When the peace of the world is threatened, we should have something better than a policy of nonparticipation. The Labour party some time ago stood for the League of Nations and supported it by money and action. To-day it says "non-participation". Is this instrument, the finest yet conceived for the maintenance of world peace, to be destroyed? Are all these efforts to lift civilization on to a higher plane to be abandoned? Are the League's efforts to avert the horrors of war, with which civilization has been faced down the centuries, to be nullified by a weakkneed policy such as that enunciated by the honorable senator?  His  speech may have been intended to catch the unwary, but I venture to think that the people learned in the years 1914 to 1918 that treaties are not mere "scraps of paper ", and that they now subscribe to the policy of collective security which has saved the world from any major conflagration in the last fifteen years. That policy is the one hope of civilization. The nations are bound by solemn covenant to support the League. 
I should be sorry to think that the honorable senator expressed his own personal views on this issue, and I should be still more sorry if any party in this country endeavoured to make the present situation a plaything of politics. Such action would be an atrocity against civilization. 
-I was sorry to hear  Senator Collings  speak of aggrandizement and trade in connexion with this dispute. I am inclined to think that he was engaging in a little rhetoric in his first speech since he was entrusted with the leadership of his party in this chamber. The natural resources of Abyssinia are very small indeed. Cotton goods and yarns are its chief imports, and the trade is largely in Japanese hands. The principal exports are coffee, hides and skins, and beeswax, and the values of the exports in normal years are, respectively, £400,000, £200,000 and £300,000. Official figures for the years from 1930 to 1934 show that in no year have the exports from Abyssinia to Great Britain risen above £200,000, while British exports to that country do not exceed £50,000 a year. In the light of these figures, how can the honorable senator suggest that there is something sinister in Great Britain's attitude in this dispute ? 
I agree that the honorable senator paid a tribute to those who are endeavouring to preserve peace. Yet a moment later he advocated non-participation. 

 - Senator Collings said - 
I strongly hold the view that Australia should not allow the statesmen of any other country to determine this country's course of action. 

 His policy of non-participation would weaken the hands of those endeavouring to preserve peace. The underlying suggestion of  Senator Collings's  speech is that there is something sinister about Britain's efforts to preserve the peace of the world. It was unworthy of him to interlard his enunciation of the policy of his party with statements which had no foundation in fact. He talked about the Commonwealth Government having blundered into a position which might involve Australia in war. 
This is what the honorable senator said - 
As uncontradicted statements appeared in the newspapers that Australia had been committed right up to the hilt there was a growing feeling that the Commonwealth Government had blundered into a decision that might involve Australia in war. 
I have indicated the policy enunciated by  Sir Samuel  Hoare and  Mr. Anthony  Eden in the House of Commons. That policy is endorsed by all the British dominions. No mercenary attempt to gain wealth from Abyssinia is being made by Great Britain. It. is carrying out the spirit of the Covenant of the League of Nations, the foundations of which are expressed in language which I think should impress the honorable senator. This is the exordium to the contract - 
The honorable senator endeavours to misrepresent the attitude of this country. It is imputed that Great Britain has some sinister motive. I am concerned at the prospect that the Australian people may be humiliated when the representatives of other nations at Geneva read that the honorable senator has urged nonparticipation by this country in carrying out the obligations imposed upon signatories to the Covenant. 
In what do the honorable senator and his party refuse to participate? 
Is the honorable senator willing that Australia  should accept its obligations under the Covenant of the League of Nations ? There is only one deduction to be drawn from the honorable senator's attitude. It implies that we have been wrong in our foreign policy; that we should not have adhered in the first place to the League of Nations, and that we should now withdraw from it. 
The manner in which the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  has dealt with this subject is grossly unfair to the party of which I have the honour to be a member. He began with a lugubrious note; he then tried to be grandiloquent, and imported a good deal of bathos into his remarks, but on the whole his criticism of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  left us very cold. In discussing this subject we should be cool, calm, and collected. There is no need for sentimental weakness. The Minister's effort to endeavour to persuade us to adopt a different attitude has not been successful. The Labour party has considered this matter and studied it as honest Australians who desire peace just as much as do the Minister and those with whom he is associated. In his interpretation of the words "nonparticipation," the Minister has tried to mislead this chamber. The Labour movement throughout the world has supported the League of Nations, and participated in its work ; but because we as a party fear that there is a possibility of Australia being involved in another world war, we are told that we are opposed to the League of Nations and out of sympathy with Great Britain and the other dominions. We have not had a clear and explicit statement of the Government's attitude towards the Italo-Abyssinian dispute. Thousands of persons throughout Australia are anxious to know the effect upon Australia of the action of certain European countries to ensure peace. Questions have been asked, not merely by Labour men, but also by prominent individuals, newspapers, and organizations as to the direction in which the Government is leading us. They are asking how far the Government has committed Australia in connexion with the threatened embroglio. The  Bulletin,  which is not a Labour journal, but is representative of certain wealthy interests, is asking the same question. On every placard throughout Australia appears the same demand for this information. 
The  Bulletin  has asked a question similar to that which we are asking. How far are we committed? When we ask this plain and simple question it should not be said that the Labour party is stooping to low tactics. The question is directed by plain people to a very plain Ministry, and we trust that when the subject has been fully debated both in this chamber and in the House of Representatives we shall drag from the Government a statement of the extent to which Australia will be involved if Great Britain and France go to the fullest extent against Italy. The Labour party is unanimously of the opinion that in view of what is happening in Europe there is a possibility of Australia again being involved in a worldwide war. According to the Minister, if Europe is involved, the logical and irresistible conclusion is that Australia will have to take up arms and her sons cross the seas to participate in the conflict. 
 What would the honorable senator do? Would he stay here and wait for this prize to be taken? 
 The honorable senator's party issued a statement before ascertaining where it stands. 
Is that not a good argument why we should adhere to the League ? 
Does the honorable senator advise collective action to protect Britain's interests in the waters of the Blue Nile? 
The honorable senator is about as clear as a London fog. 
I am sorry for him. The Labour party is anxious to do all in its power to prevent war. 
.- I hesitate to participate in this rather indefinite discussion. I should like first to examine the reaction of the general public of Australia and of Great Britain, as well as other countries, when the full text of the Government's announcement of its policy has been made known. I entirely agree that it was desirable for the Government to issue a message to the people of this country with regard to the present dispute, for they wished to know the extent to which Australia had been committed by the Government. Any criticism which I may have to offer will apply not so much to the Government as to the document which is the subject of the motion before the Senate. It has some historical value, and it may be that the Government wants the people to consider it in that aspect. I do not say that it is wrongs - it may be that most of it is correct - but I looked in vain for a clear message to the people of Australia, and of Great Britain, as to what Australia is prepared to do. As a man of the world, I find the message of the Government  anaemic  almost to the extent of  bloodlessness.  It seems to bc a message from a Government carefully balanced on the tight rope of circumstances and hoping that there is a feather bed on both sides on which to land in the event of a fall. I agree that a statement was necessary; but I found no fire in the one which was issued. For that reason I was pleased to notice that the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  became somewhat excited, at least to the extent of raising his voice. He had cause to be excited. Having heard his speech, I can only conclude that he could not have been in the Cabinet room when the statement was drawn up. He put the case better than it is set out in the statement, because he put some fire into his remarks. 
His speech roused in us a little of the* pride of Empire because of what Great Britain is doing - we hope successfully - to prevent another great conflict between the nations of the world. No one can say that Britain has not played its part nobly and well, even to the extent of willingness to make great sacrifices ; and it is our bounden duty, as sons of the Empire, to say that we have a part in its work and will stand behind the Mother Country both morally and otherwise, if necessary, to prevent the world from being involved in another holocaust such as that which began in 1914. 
I am sorry that the Government did not go further in its statement. Its pronouncement seemed to be an attempt to soothe an agitated electorate ; or it may have been an agitated attempt on the part of the Government to soothe its own conscience. I say emphatically that there is less danger in an informed electorate than in a bewildered one, and that the people of Australia, if not entitled to know all the circumstances of the case, certainly expect to be told that the Government will or will not take certain steps if the peace of the world is endangered. I agree that it would be impossible for the British Empire to assume the responsibility of policing the whole world; but if that Empire, by moral suasion or otherwise, can prevent other nations from taking the extreme step of engaging in hostilities, it will be doing a good work. 
I rose to criticize the Government; but, having heard the views of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I was forced to the conclusion that if any party is likely to drag this country into a war, it is the party opposite. The spokesman for the Opposition said that his party did not want Australia to participate in any war in foreign lands for economic treasure. Not one of us wants that. But will the honorable gentleman go so far as to say that if the safety of our own community and of our own economic treasure were threatened by foreign aggression, Australia should refuse to assist the aggressor? I remind the Opposition that it must decide between collective security and every nation being armed to the teeth. There is no other alternative. If the combined nations of the world cannot preserve peace, and if Australia says that it will no longer support the League of Nations, and will even desert the Empire to which it belongs, what could less than 7,000,000 people do should some bully seek to take this, the most desirable land on the face of the earth? What would be our protection then ? Would we prefer to rely on our own teeth, or to have also the teeth of the whole Empire and, indeed, of civilization? The Opposition must change its tune; it must show a little more virility. The people of Australia have not degenerated to the extent that the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition would suggest. Australians played a man's part in the World War, and they will do the same again, if necessary. Surely no one here would  say  that Australia should follow a policy of neutrality to the extent of allowing anyone to land on our shores and destroy our economic life, and, indeed, our nation, without an effort at resistance. We are of British blood ; and for that reason we will resent any attempt to interfere with the safety of our nation. If Australia were to withdraw from the League of Nations, it would have to arm to the teeth; there would be no alternative. 
I hope that the Government will be a little more plain in any future pronouncement of this kind. The people of Australia were waiting for a message from the Government, but, in my opinion, they did not get it. I do not question the Government's sincerity; but I do question its judgment in thinking that the statement it issued would satisfy the people of this country, or of Great Britain, or of those allied nations which are looking for a sign from Australia. 
Several of the remarks of  Senator Brown  who, I assume, expressed the view of the Australian Labour party, cannot be allowed to pass unchallenged. I take it that the Australian Labour party wholeheartedly supports the League of Nations, and I would also like to assume - although such an assumption is open to doubt - that its members understand the Covenants into which Australia has entered. The British Labour party is at one with the Australian Labour party in support of the League of Nations as an instrument for the preservation of peace in a war-weary world. 
The latest reports from the Old Country reveal an extraordinary difference between the views of the British Labour party and the Australian Labour party in regard to the Italo-Abyssinian dispute. 
Both  Senator Collings  and  Senator Brown  carefully refrained from stating that there is now complete unity between the members of the British Labour party on this issue. At a recent conference,  Sir Walter  Citrine, who is the real leader of the Labour party in Great Britain, said - 
The only thing Mussolini understands is collective force. There is no alternative now but sanctions, involving all the possibility of war. Congress has a duty to the coloured peoples of the world, and the duty is to prevent a defenceless country being butchered by one of the greatest bullies in Europe. If Germany and Italy were allowed to break treaties with impunity, Hitlerised Germany could carry out its projected attack on Russia. Now is the time to defend Russia by defending Abyssinia. 
It is remarkable that, even before the issues are clear, the Australian Labour party, which is supposed to be a supporter of the League of Nations, should urge a policy of non-participation. The Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  was justified in asking what the Opposition meant by non-participation. Does it mean that in the event of hostilities Australia would paddle its own canoe ? That would mean retracting every pledge given to the League of Nations to take a share of the responsibility for preserving the peace of the world. 
I cannot agree with  Senator Leckie  that the statement of policy issued by the Government was lacking in clearness and definiteness. 
How could it be otherwise since there is no issue yet before the country? The Government's statement was to the following effect: - 
The Commonwealth Government, while convinced that the upholding of the principles of collective security embodied in the League of Nations is essential to world peace, desires to point out that none of the provisions of the Covenant has been violated by either Italy or Abyssinia ... It therefore seems unwise either to anticipate any breach, or to announce in advance the course of action to be followed by the Commonwealth Government in contingencies, the nature and circumstances of which cannot at present be foreseen. 
If there has not been a breach of any of the Covenants of the League, where is there an issue sufficiently great to justify the Australian Labour party in saying that, in the event of sanctions being applied - and that would mean the acceptance of collective responsibility - Australia's policy should be one of non-participation? The Government evidently believes that at this juncture there is no justification for assuming that either party to the dispute will violate any of its obligations. Because no Covenant of the League of Nations has yet been broken it is unwise either to anticipate any breach or to announce in advance the action which the Government proposes to take. If, unhappily, occasion arises - and we all sincerely trust that it will not - for a definite stand to be taken, it will then be time enough for the Australian Labour party to announce its policy. That time is not now. The views expressed by the Leader of the Opposition are only  so  much propaganda. 
I agree with the view expressed by  Senator Hardy  regarding the attitude adopted by the Government in relation to the ItaloAbyssinian dispute. At times like the present there is always the temptation to rush in and say things which ought not to be said, but the Government exercises its greatest discretion by limiting what it says to the existing circumstances and going not one step further. 
As one who has, at various times, been faced with great responsibilities I commend the Government for its restraint in respect of this particular issue. It has made it abundantly clear that it stands by the undertakings of this country solemnly given under the Covenant of the League of Nations. 
Whatever may be our views as to the efficacy of the League method for the maintenance of peace, no better method has yet been devised. Australia is a signatory of the League Covenant. It signed the Covenant with the approval of practically all citizens of Australia; they believed that this was the best way in which peace could be ensured. After the  awful experience of the last war, representatives of the nations involved met in conference at Versailles, and adopted the Covenant of the League of Nations. In its last analysis, as the world has found out, the rule of law rests on force. Therefore, in all seriousness, I ask my honorable friends opposite if they believe that their contribution to this controversy is calculated to maintain peace. If every nation sitting at the council table of the League of Nations had adopted their attitude, what would be the result to-day ? 

 Senator Sir WALTER MASSYGREENE. If Great Britain, France, and the other principal nations in conference at Geneva had adopted the policy of non-participation, and let it be known that the League was simply a debating society, what would have been the result? I am not speaking of Italy at the moment. Everybody knows that if the other nations had adopted the attitude of my friends opposite the wolves of war would be abroad this very moment. Nobody knows this better than honorable senators of the Opposition. The only way in which it is possible for the Covenant of the League of Nations to work efficiently is for the member nations to stand solemnly behind the pledges which they have given. Unless they do this the League of Nations must collapse. That may be the ultimate result; I cannot say. But if, ultimately, we see the entire collapse of the greatest instrument for the maintenance of collective peace which the mind of man has yet devised, Australia, in common with other nations, will have good, cause to regret it. 
While listening ,to the eloquent remarks of  Senator MassyGreene  one was almost persuaded that the attitude of the Australian Labour party to the grave issue which confronts the world ' was quite wrong. But the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has a good memory. Doubtless he will recall that three years ago, when I referred to the conflict between Bolivia and Paraguay, he ridiculed my suggestion that it was the outcome of conflicting commercial and trading interests, and said there was nothing in it, notwithstanding that I made it clear that my authority was a good Scottish Labour paper,  Glasgow Forward,  edited by  Mr. Tom  Johnston, a former member of the House of Commons. My point is that the League of Nations allowed that dispute to drag on for three years. 
That also is the stand taken by Mussolini in the present dispute. 
The action of Japan in Manchuria may also be cited as another instance in which the League failed to exert its authority. That is my reply to  Senator Massy-Greene.  Although the honorable senator made a convincing speech in support of the League of Nations he conveniently forgot its disinclination to act with respect to other disputes that have occurred in recent years. I freely admit that the League of Nations is a splendid institution. 
Hitherto  it has been so regarded in some quarters, and because of its inability to settle disputes between nations, it has been called a failure. It certainly failed to prevent Japan from taking aggressive action in Manchuria, and failed also for a period of three years, to put an end to the war between Bolivia and Paraguay. I understand that a number of Australian mercenaries took part in the war between those two countries. A statement to this effect appeared in an Australian newspaper recently. Then there was an unofficial war in and around Shanghai, due to aggressive action by the Japanese military authorities, and again the League of Nations proved ineffective. 
The reason for interference in the Italo-Abyssinian dispute is that two great nations are particularly interested, and the issue is nearer home. A struggle between Italy and Abyssinia may involve control of the Suez Canal, which is regarded as one of the world's commercial arteries. The Minister mentioned this afternoon that Britain's exports to Abyssinia amount to approximately £50,000 a year. I should have thought the trade was greater than that. But the Minister's statement did not cover the whole situation. I understand that Abyssinia, which has an area of about 400,000 square miles, has valuable mineral and oil deposits. A few weeks ago we read of concessions secured by a syndicate which had been formed by a  Mr.  Rickett  for the exploitation of the northern portion of Abyssinia. At first it was reported that British capital was involved, but later information showed that American financial interests, generally understood to be sponsored by the Standard Oil Company, were behind the venture. I mention these facts, because so little is really known of the undercurrents of international finance, and it is difficult to form reliable judgments concerning disputes between nations owing to the meagre information given to the public.  Mr.  Rickett,  I understand, recently effected a. dramatic coup in Iraq, as the result of which Italian interests secured 52 per cent, of the shares in an important oil concern, from which the British directors were forced to retire. The struggle between Paraguay and Bolivia was due to the conflicting interests of the British and American financial concerns. The British capitalists, I understand, desired to prevent Bolivia from securing an outlet to the sea via the Paraguay River, which would have benefited rival oil interests controlled by American capital. That dispute, I repeat, was allowed to drag on for three years, and it involved the lives of many thousands of Bolivian and  Paraguain  soldiers. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I am unable to check the honorable senator, but I should like to know if the purpose of his remarks is to disparage the League of Nations as an instrument for the maintenance of peace. 
We listened to an excellent exposition of the advantages of the League from  Senator Massy-Greene,  and I think I am entitled to say something in reply. 
But is it the intention of the honorable senator to lower the prestige of the League of Nations in the eyes of the world? 
What the honorable senator is saying can have no other effect than to belittle the League, and I suggest that his discretion should dictate a different course. 
That all the words after " that " be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words - " in the opinion of the Senate the Government should, immediately instruct Australia's delegate at the League of Nations that he is definitely and unequivocally to oppose any action, implied or committed, likely to involve Australia in war." 
I agree with all that  Senator Massy-Greene  has said. We all are glad to have him with us again, and to have the pleasure of listening to what he has to say. I agree, also, with  Senator Hardy,  that the action of the Government in issuing a temperate, reasoned, and, if you like, tepid statement, was inevitable in the circumstances. I propose to follow that example. I do not propose to say anything of the antecedents of the dispute, or the attitude of the various nations with regard to the outstanding series of international difficulties, which, I am certain, all honorable senators deplore. There are two or three points to which I shall refer briefly. The first is the assumption contained in the statement read by the 
Leader of the Oppositionin this chamber  (Senator Collings)  that it is within the competence of Australia to participate in or avoid a war just as it thinks fit. That is based upon a fundamental fallacy. The fact is, that if Great Britain is at war the Empire is at war, and Australia whether it likes it or not is also at war. That is the legal position. We are liable to attack by any belligerent with which Great Britain happens to be fighting. I do not, of course, make that statement on my own authority, but on the authority of  Sir John  Latham, who, when speaking in the House of Representatives in 1924 in connexion with the treaty with Turkey, said without qualification - 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Charlton)  appears to consider that it is optional whether Australia shall be considered to be at war or at peace when Great Britain is at war. There is no option. Other nations regard all parts of the Empire as belonging to one international unit or entity. That is a matter, of legal fact. If the British Empire is at war, then, legally, Australia also is undoubtedly at war. Of course, it is now perfectly well established that it depends upon Australia herself entirely how far she shall participate in such a war, and whether she shall, or shall not, send an armed force to take part in belligerent operations. 
I invite the attention of the members of the Labour party to the following: - 
If Great Britain is at war, Australia is exposed to all the risks of war, and she cannot evade those risks by any unilateral action which she may take. The only way in which she can avoid being considered at war when Britain is at war is by severing her connexion with the Empire. 
Although that position is apparently not understood by  Senator Collings  the effect of his statement is that the Australian Labour party suggests that we should seek to avoid war by severing our connexion with the Empire.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan pointed out that the logical consequence of the Labour party's policy is that Australia must leave the League of Nations, but I remind  Senator Collings  that it also means leaving the Empire. That position, I suggest, is worthy of consideration by honorable senators generally. So far as I know there has been no change in that legal position. It is true that Australia has been given a seat in the Assembly of the League of Nations, and from that fact many people have gained the idea that Australia is a separate nation and can do exactly as it likes. But when the Washington Disarmament Conference was summoned, the Government of the United States of America did not issue separateinvitations to all portions of the British Empire, bur, as  Senator Sir George  Pearce knows, to the British Empire as a whole. It is not altogether a matter of our own view; we must have regard to what the view of other nations is likely to be. Assuming a war in which Britain was involved, we might say that we were not going to participate in it, but other countries would say that as they were at war with Britain they were also at war with Australia, and that we would have to take the consequence of belonging to the British Empire. If we were unprepared for war, so much the better for them and the worse for us. That is what, their attitude would be. 
The second point is this: Surely no fair-minded man, looking back over the last fifteen years, can deny that during that time Great Britain has persistently advocated peace. 

 Senator DUNCANHUGHES.Britain has disarmed just as Australia has disarmed to the danger point. Has that not been simply and solely with a. desire to give a lead to the rest of the world so that disarmament might be promoted in the interests of international peace? Disarmament proposals have been supported. Lord Cecil,  Mr. Arthur  Henderson,  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald and  Sir Eric  Drummond, all British, have been among the leaders in the promotion of peace. Surely no fair-minded man can suggest that Great Britain has not played its part in the cause of peace. Great Britain, which has to carry such a load in this respect, is much closer to the zone of operations than we are, but it does not follow that we have no interests in such problems. I have yet to learn that the Suez Canal or the Mediterranean are lacking in interest and importance to Australia, which is so largely dependent upon the sale overseas of its primary products. If we here are walking warily, and some of us are refraining from making provocative speeches in the hope that war may be avoided, surely that small country on the other side of the world bursting with population, in contrast with our own country, and almost within range of those countries which anay be hostile, will take only the most temperate and well-considered action. It is not right that we should say anything here that may make the difficulties of the British Government, or of our own Government, greater than they are to-day. I commend the Government for moving warily and for not saying anything which it might have cause to rue. We all desire that peace on a proper basis shall be preserved by the influence of the British Government and the Commonwealth Government acting in concert. 
The old tragedy is being reenacted in this chamber this afternoon. The same rhetoric, the same glycerine tears and the same indifference on the part of the old men to the welfare of the young, who, if war occurs will be exported  to  the shambles, is being displayed to-day as has been displayed on every occasion on which the world has been involved in war. If it were not for the fact that as an old man I have been through this experience on more than -one occasion I might even be induced to leave the track along which I have decided to travel - the track laid down by the party to which I belong and which is set out in the policy of the Australian Labour movement to which I am definitely pledged by my signature. 
Had I not had experience I might even be led astray by the specious arguments, and worse than that, by the direct untruths and insults hurled at me by the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  in his speech on this subject to-day. 
In deference to you, sir, and to the Minister who apparently is unable to take his gruel, I withdraw the words unconditionally. The Minister knows better than his speech indicates. When he sees his outburst in cold print to-morrow he will regret some of his remarks which had a direct reference to my previous statement. Let us study the arguments adduced this afternoon which prompted the Opposition to move an amendment to the motion. I assure the Minister and all those who have spoken in his support that we have one motive and one motive only and that is to avert Australia being involved in war. 
The disparaging remarks made concerning me by the Minister this afternoon and his inflammatory statements concerning our objective were a direct attempt to misrepresent entirely the statement I made on behalf of my party. It is easy for the Minister to say that he knows of the horrors of war, and that he abhors war as much as I do. He also said that we should avert war if that is at all possible. There is only one way in which to avoid war and that is for every nation involved or likely to be embroiled to declare that it will not have war in any circumstances whatever. There cannot be a war if the peoples who may be involved resolve that there shall not be war. If finally a war of extermination between Italy and Abyssinia is inevitable all I can say is let us in Heaven's name circumscribe it to those countries concerned and keep Australia out of it. I believe with the Premier of Queensland that the entire quarrel between Italy and Abyssinia is not worth the sacrifice of a single Australian life. I recognize in the statements of honorable senators opposite the same arguments as were used, particularly throughout the British Empire, when war was imminent in 1914. The people in Great Britain did not know that war was even contemplated until the announcement was made in the British House of Commons that it was inescapable. The people of Australia know nothing of what has been done in their name on the other side of the world. This Government has not told' the Senate the facts about the negotiations which have been going on for months between the Government and its representative in London. 
The Postmaster-General said this afternoon that the League of Nations was the only device available for the security of the world and the saving of civilization. It is certainly the best device which has been conceived up to date. I believe in the League of Nations. I supported it in this chamber last year when  Senator Grant  objected on the budget to the expense Australia has to carry as a consequence of being represented on the League. I know the wars the League has prevented and those it has failed to prevent, and I say again that it is obviously unable, situated as it is, at the moment, to impose its will upon belligerent nations. The greatest contribution we could make to the peace and security of the world, and to civilization itself, would be to refuse to take part in this war, in the hope that the other nations would follow our example. 
The war in which we are, as the Postmaster-General knows perfectly well, in imminent danger of being embroiled.  Senator DuncanHughes  has quoted  Sir John  Latham's dictum that if Great Britain was at war Australia was also inescapably involved. The Government would have been better advised to tell the people of Australia that this was the position instead of issuing the statement which  Senator Leckie  pertinently described as anaemic. Why not place all the cards on the table and let the people of Australia know how far we are involved, and how far we are pledged ? The Government does not dare to do that because those who sit on the other side of the chamber, some of whom have spoken this afternoon, are direct representatives of the vested interests which, by their predatory action in every country, finally involve nations in war. 
I did not address my remark to  Senator DuncanHughes. 
I did not;' I used the words " some of whom have spoken this afternoon ". I resent  Senator Duncan-Hughes  rushing in and claiming the honour for himself. I did not intend the remark to apply to him and I willingly withdraw it. 
The Postmaster-General contradicted my statement that all the dominions were not in agreement with the policy which he was espousing. He added that I preferred to quote from some obscure source rather than from the authoritative statements of representative men before the Assembly of the League of Nations. But we have never been told what has been said there. We know that the press of this country is the mouthpiece of predatory vested interests. I have not lived for 70 years and come into this chamber so childishly innocent that I cannot appreciate the facts of the situation. No doubt honorable senators on the other side know more than I concerning this matter, because they are intimately associated with the members of the Ministry. The Postmaster-General is aware that the Canadian Premier has definitely said, "We have paid for peace and security, and mean to have them." 
I am reminded of the Irishman who believed in peace so much that he would go to war to get it. I believe in peace first, second and all the time. 
I have heard that before. I know that supporters of the Government, in their individual capacity, are just as kindly as I am, and are whole-hearted in their desire that peace should prevail. 

 Senator Massy-Greene took me to task like a father rebuking a child, and said that there was always the temptation on occasions like this to rush in and say things which would be better left unsaid; but  we  cannot be too early in expressing our detestation of war. It is the old men who make wars, and old men, who are in the majority in the parliaments in this country and in the councils of other nations, rush in and say things that would be better left unsaid. They are prepared to do the same thing now. Since 1914-18  a :wv  generation has' arrived. It is not the returned soldiers who went through the last holocaust who will be wanted for the next war. I have met in this country soldiers who have told me that, they desire no more war. Returned soldiers associations from one end of Australia to the other have declared against war; but it is the new generation of men who will be required. Australia would make its greatest contribution to the peace of the world by refusing to participate in any foreign war. One honorable senator -  Senator Leckie,  I think - to-day declared that Australia cannot effectively defend itself. It did not defend itself in 1914. 
That is so, but we were under the sheltering arm of Great Britain, and we shall be again. We are in a fortunate situation in Australia, being at least 12,000 miles from the scene of the threatened trouble. We can best help Great Britain by keeping out of the trouble, and making it unnecessary for it to protect us. We have great admiration for the way Great Britain has tried to have this ItaloAbyssinian dispute settled by arbitration. A full statement of the situation is needed. The ministerial statement does not tell us the position. If the statement said straight out, " Britain in, all in,"  Ave  should understand the situation. The Postmaster-General this afternoon accused me of all the crimes in the calendar, but that is an old dodge. I do not object to it now, because I have become accustomed to it. I can. visualize not so much the massed armies as the individuals who will be sent from Australia if this war eventuates. Some of them will be members of my own family. I do not believe that the sordid brawl between Italy and Abyssinia is worth the sacrifice of one of those lives, and in saying that I do not mind if I am condemned, or charged with being guilty of rushing in where I ought not to venture. On behalf of the party which I represent in this chamber I shall, if necessary, do my utmost, from one end of Australia to the other, to prevent the sacrifice of one Australian life in the trouble which is now brewing. The amendment merely crystallizes the views of my party; without it, my statement yesterday would have been of little value. That statement was only a brief outline of our position, but it expressed the sentiment of the Australian Labour party.  Senator Hardy  interjected that the Australian Labour party was not united in its attitude towards this dispute. That is not correct. 
The ' resolution carried unanimously by the Brisbane Trades and Labour Council, representing the organized industrial workers of Queensland, was moved by  Mr. C.  G. Fallon, State secretary of the Australian Workers Union, and that resolution differed only in phraseology from the statement made by me yesterday. 
I ask honorable senators to believe that my remarks yesterday were not just an idle statement. They were made then because we believe it would be fatal to wait until a decision has been made. The amendment merely puts a constructive side to what I said yesterday, although I know the protest will be of no avail because the grey heads supporting the Government will go ahead irrespective of the soundness of the views expressed by the Opposition. We have stated our opinion honestly and fairly, and have put forward a constructive proposal which, if accepted, would considerably clarify the situation and keep Australia out of the sordid squabble which threatens to culminate in war on the other side of the world. 
.- Had it not been for the shameful utterances of  Senator Collings  I should not 
Lave taken part in the debate. The honorable senator gratuitously insulted members on this side of the chamber when he said that the aged men among us, despite our glycerine tears, are anxious to involve Australia in war. More aged men in the party controlling Australian affairs ro-day suffered through the Great War than did the aged men in the party to which the honorable senator belongs. The honorable senator should at least respect their feelings. Many of us suffered terribly as a result of the Great War, and the honorable senator, knowing that, should withdraw his shameful' utterances. 
The amendment is most important. It proposes that Australia should instruct its representative at the League of Nations to avoid anything that might embroil Australia in a war. 
I have watched proceedings closely since the war clouds appeared on the horizon, and I am proud to belong to the British Empire - an empire which stands for the protection of small nations against bullying nations. If Australia withdrew its loyal support from Great Britain at this time, Australians would never be able again to hold up their heads. One honorable senator put the position very aptly when he said that Australia cannot afford to stand in isolation and desert the Old Country in its time of need. In discussing this matter, we should refrain from saying anything which might prejudice the magnificent efforts that Britain is making to ensure peace. Some of the statements made during this debate, instead of being of assistance to the Old Country, may be a handicap. Every parliament in the world is being watched to-day by other nations. I remember distinctly the unanimity prevailing among the representatives of 38 nations at the Berlin Conference in 1928 when a resolution in support of the Kellogg Pact was carried amid a scene of enthusiasm such as I have never witnessed before or since. As one of the signatories to the Covenant of the League of Nations, Australia cannot afford to take any action which might suggest to the world that this country would be false to that pact and to the Covenant. I hope that this discussion will reveal to the world that the heart of Australia is in the right place, and that this country will do the right thing should the occasion arise. 
Having listened to the premature, unwise, misguided, and foolish statements made during this debate on behalf of the Opposition, I feel compelled to make a few observations. 
Following upon the Great War, the best brains of the world endeavoured to conceive some method of outlawing war in the future. The League of Nations was the outcome. When Australia was invited to become a member of the League the proposal received the unanimous endorsement of all parties. Australia joined the League, and since then Parliament has voted a contribution annually towards its maintenance. At the moment there is no war in progress; but war is threatened. Listening to the Opposition, one would think that the world is already in the throes of a war. We all hope that no hostilities will result. I contend that the attitude of the Government is more likely to avert hostilities than is that of the Opposition. Day and night the League has been working to prevent war, and in- that effort Australia's representative has been playing his part. Notwithstanding that Great Britain has even gone so far as to offer to cede territory to the aggressive nation in order that war might be averted the speeches of Opposition senators would convey the impression that Australia and Britain are conspiring to bring about armed conflict. The pronouncement of the Government merely intimated that it stood behind Great Britain up to the hilt ' in its efforts to ensure peace. What clearer pronouncement could any government give? If, unfortunately, hostilities do break out it will then be time for this Parliament, and for the people of Australia, to make clear whether or not they wish to follow a policy of nonparticipation. 
The League of Nations is the greatest moral force in the world for peace. Its members are making magnificent offers in the interests of peace, and I consider that the Labour party's statement definitely weakens their efforts. The Opposition advocates throwing in the towel - an action which would probably encourage the aggressive nation to go ahead. To-day's newspaper reports inform us that Italy has now submitted counter proposals, ls not that a sign of the effectiveness of the League? But for the League, war would have broken out several weeks ago. I object to the Labour party following a course of action which might weaken the League, the only force in the world that may be able to avert a catastrophe.  Senator J.  V. MacDonald said that the League had failed to prevent trouble between China and Japan. On that occasion, perhaps, the League made a mistake, as it did in not intervening between Paraguay and Bolivia. But if the League did make mistakes then, another mistake now in respect of the Italo-Abyssinian dispute will not make the position any better. Two "wrongs" do not make a "right". 
The reference by the Leader of the Opposition to the "old men" who support the Government's attitude in this matter was not, I think, quite fair. The honorable senator said that not one member of his family would be sacrificed if, unfortunately, this dispute should involve Australia in hostilities. Without knowing the family circumstances of Government supporters I am confident that they also have sons concerning whom they are just as anxious as the Leader of the Opposition may be about the possibility of members of his family becoming involved in this dispute. Nobody wants war. Some of our citizens have a very intimate knowledge of the horrors of war. Therefore we say that no effort should be spared by this Parliament to avert a repetition of the tragedy which overwhelmed the world between the years 1914 and 1918. Although the statement made by the Leader of the Senate does not, perhaps, give us quite so much information as we would like to have, I believe that the Government, acting in close co-operation with the British Government, is doing its best in very difficult circumstances, and I am quite prepared to leave the issue in its hands. 
[5.43]. - The amendment submitted by  Senator J.  V. MacDonald states that, in the opinion of the Senate, the Government should immediately instruct the Australian delegate to the League of Nations definitely and unequivocally to oppose any action, implied or committed, likely to involve Australia in war. An examination of its terms discloses that the amendment is meaningless. I assume that  Senator Collings  and his supporters have read the Covenant of the League of- Nations, and therefore know what it contains. On this assumption I ask them this question : " Does the Labour party believe that Australia should remain a member of the League of Nations?" I put this question to them because it is the only way in which we may test the amendment. As my friends opposite do not answer, I assume that, as members of the Labour party, they do believe that Australia should remain a member of the League of Nations. I have not anywhere seen criticism from them of League reports that have come before Parliament from timeto time, and I remind them also that they have taken part in the debates dealing with League of Nations affairs, and have supported the vote of about £70,000 yearly as Australia's contribution towards the cost of the League. Obviously the Scullin Government believed in the League of Nations because it sent representatives to Geneva, and although Australia was then in the trough of the financial depression, it voted the money necessary to retain our membership of the League. In the light of these facts, I must assume that the Labour party, which now takes responsibility for this amendment, believes in the League of Nations and believes also that Australia should be a member of it. This being so I remind our Labour friends that when Australia became a member of the League of Nations it also subscribed to the Articles of the Covenant which were framed for the purpose of preventing war. Those articles, however, also visualize, and state in definite terms that, in certain contingencies, the League itself may have to employ force. Members of the Labour party cannot now say that they did not know of the obligations imposed on Australia by the League Covenant. To do that would be to confess ignorance of the articles of a Covenant which has been especially designed to maintain international peace. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE That is exactly the position. Now a situation has arisen in which there is a possibility of a breach of international peace. It has been said that it takes two to make a quarrel. That may be true of individuals, but internationally one nation may force a quarrel on another, and, by aggressive action, threaten the peace of the world. The articles of the Covenant were framed to meet such a situation; they were designed to make it dangerous for any aggressive nation to break the peace of the world. 
Bearing in mind the tragic events which occurred between 1914 and 1918, the articles of the League Covenant were so drawn that members of the League of Nations should,  ipso facto,  become the enemies of an aggressor nation. It may be all very well, when some other nation is attacked for us in Australia to say that it is no concern of ours. But suppose Australia were being attacked - what about the articles of the Covenant then? I can imagine with what eloquence and force  Senator Collings  and' his supporters would then call upon other nations to honour the pledge contained in the Covenant, and protect Australia from the " bully " that was threatening our peace and security. But they cannot have it both ways. 
If the articles of the Covenant are to be invoked for our protection, we, as a member nation of the League, must also honour them when they are being invoked for the protection of other nations. Therefore, I say that the amendment is meaningless. If honorable senators opposite really mean what is implied in the amendment they should move that Australia should resign as a member of the League - that is really their only honest course - and tell the world that we are leaving the League because we cannot any longer honour the obligations imposed by the Covenant. Retaining  our  membership of the League, while at the same time declaring that in no circumstances whatever shall our delegate give a vote that may mean war - not a war of aggression by the League or by those who are members of the League, but war forced upon the League by an aggressor nation - is, I suggest, a hopelessly untenable attitude. 
In politics or in industrial affairs our friends of the Labour party do not usually turn the other cheek to the aggressor. Do they think that they can make the world believe that, in international affairs, they are lambs while in political and industrial affairs they are veritable lions? Apparently the Leader of the Opposition would have the world believe that he is a veritable lamb - one who would not raise even a bleat against an aggressive wolf. In this chamber, as all honorable senators know, his command of language in support of principles to which he adheres is always forceful and at times almost violent. While the honorable gentleman was speaking this afternoon I took a note of some of the adjectives which he employed when addressing honorable senators on this side. They reminded me of the list of adjectives which are to be found in one of the little publications issued for the guidance of honorable senators, and containing language which has been ruled to be unparliamentary. For example, the honorable senator accused honorable senators on this side of using "specious arguments ", of shedding " glycerine tears ", of employing " absurd rhetoric ". He even referred to some of us as " old men who were willing to send young men to the shambles ". That was the kind of language employed by  Senator Collings  - this international " lamb " who would have people of other countries believe that he would not even bleat if ever the wolf of war came to his door! I suggest also that the honorable senator's opening remarks were of a nature that, upon reflection, might well bring the blush of shame to his cheeks. The imputation which he made against the mother country was, I think, shameful. This is what the honorable gentleman said - 
If it were not for the oil fields of Abyssinia and other Tich natural resources desired by great vested interests, there would not be  manoeuvrings  for war. 
What are those vested interests? I think we should ask ourselves this question because obviously  Senator Collings  meant that certain vested interests which he had in mind were manoeuvring for war. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Was the honorable senator alluding to Italy, or to Great Britain, France, and the other nations that have indicated their intention to uphold the principles of the League of Nations? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Let me read a few passages from the honorable senator's remarks so that the Senate may see which country he had in mind - 
Only recently it was announced that Abyssinia had sold the rights to exploit the oil wealth of the country to American and British interests. The price to be paid was £10,000,000. 
The honorable gentleman definitely mentioned British interests and American interests. And he knew when he was making that statement that the British Government had announced on the floor of the House of Commons that no British interests whatever were concerned in that concession. It had been made plain that purely American interests were involved. Although  Senator Collings  was well aware of the facts, he deliberately imputed wrong and improper motives to the Government of the Mother Country by specifically mentioning that British interests were identified with the oil concessions. He went on to say - 
Under pressure, however, the concessionaires withdrew. It is immaterial to the masses of the people of Australia how those oil fields are eventually distributed. Therefore we should keep out of this sordid quarrel over mineral and other wealth. 
It is Great Britain and Prance that are saying that the principles of the League must be maintained, and that there must be no war of aggression against Abyssinia or any other member of the League. Yet  Senator Collings  says that, because of this scramble for oil concessions, we must keep out of any possible war. There is a clear inference in his remarks that Britain is adopting its present attitude, not because of its regard for its obligations under the Covenant, but because of some unworthy and sordid motive associated with the exploitation of these concessions. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable senator was sufficiently diplomatic to use some lip salve so that loyal Britishers in Australia would not be offended by references to the unworthy motives of the country from which they came. We on this side of the chamber believe that Great Britain is honestly endeavouring to maintain peace. On this occasion, as in the past, its attitude is in accord with the obligations it entered into on becoming a member of the League, and it has the support of France. The same obligation rests upon Australia. If we desire to avoid these obligations the honest way is to leave the League as did Germany and Japan; but, while we remain a member, we must play our part and support those countries which are upholding that for which it stands; that is, to use the organized force of the world against the aggressor who desires to disturb the peace. 
For many years the Labour party has been floundering with its defence policy. The Labour party once had a definite defence policy. It said that, as Australia is a democracy in which every one has the right to assist in making the laws, it is the duty of every man to take the responsibility of defending those laws. The Labour party once stood for universal military service and an Australian navy, but the latter-day Labour party- 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, it has blown its brains out. It became ashamed of its policy, and ran away from it. Knowing that a majority of the Australian people favour a policy of defence, it has been endeavouring to bring together a mass of words to cover up its nakedness. When we come face to face with such a momentous question as that now before the League, we find this meaningless jumble of words brought forward by the Labour party. They contain a series of imputations concerning improper motives, and an attempt is made to make the people believe that there is a deep-laid conspiracy to drag- the Australian people into a world war. That is due to the fact that the Labour party has not a policy covering defence and international relations generally. 
-It is infinitely worse. This matter is too serious to be a mere shuttlecock of party politics. I invite honorable senators to read the ministerial statement on the subject from end to end. If they do, they will not find one word which can he construed to bring the subject into the arena of party politics. The speech of the honorable senator and those who supported him showed an attempt to make political capital out of this crisis, and I have been compelled to answer them in the only language they understand. There is a higher plane upon which this matter should be considered, and that is that the League of Nations, imperfect as it . is, is doing its best to ensure international peace. Honorable senators opposite have sneered at its failures - I regret that there have been failures - but there have been some successes. 
Yes; and there is this to be said, that in the last resort it is the only international organization which man has been able to devise which has for its object the maintenance of the peace of the world. If we discredit it, and by our action on this momentous occasion- 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, to use an Australianism which fits the position, " rat on it," the structure will tumble to the ground and we shall have to revert to the old system of alliances, intrigues, and secret diplomacy. I regret that there should be a political party in Australia, representing hundreds of thousands of persons, which has not the courage to face up to the situation as the members of the British trades unions have faced up to it, instead of coming forward with this meaningless jumble of words. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister - (1) Is it the intention of the Government to appoint a commission to inquire into banking and monetary reform in Australia? (2) If so, when ? (3) Will Parliament have an opportunity to discuss the terms of reference ? (4) Will a representative of the Labour party be appointed to such commission? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report appearing in the Brisbane Sunday  Mail,  of the 15th September,1935, in which it is stated that the Japanese pearling fleet which operates in the waters north of Australia, numbering  22  vessels, is careened on the beach, south-west of Bathurst Island, and that the masters of these vessels have broken the customs, immigration, and quarantine laws of the Commonwealth for the purpose of overhauling their luggers, and also to obtain supplies of fresh water from Bathurst Island? 
If so, does the Government intend to take action in the matter! 
Yes. 
The matter has been brought to the notice of the Administrator, but, if the report  is  correct, it would be difficult to deal with the situation without the service of a fast patrol boat. Approval was given some months ago for the provision of a fast launch to patrol the waters north of the Northern Territory. The vessel is nearing completion, and is expected to arrive in Australia towards the end of October. Thereafter no time will be lost in placing it in commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the last four flying accidents, in which personnel of the Royal Australian Air Force was concerned, happened when machines of the Wapiti class were in use? 
If so, has inquiry revealed that this type of machine is unsuitable for military purposes ? 
Will the machines be withdrawn from the service? 
Yes; but  it  must be remembered that during the 21/2 years over which these accidents occurred, the Wapiti type alone has been used for the training of pilots and the equipment of land-plane squadrons; also that pupils under training were involved in three ofthose accidents. 
No. Although aircraft  of  better performance are now available Wapitis are quite suitable for use in Australia. In fact eleven service squadrons of the Royal Air Force are still equipped with this type. 
No. There would be no justification for such action. 
MR. McCANN'S SERVICES. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Prior to theappointmentofMr.McCann as Agent-General of South Australia, was  Mr. McCann  offered a position ata high salary by the Federal Government? 
If so, what was the nature of the appointment, and what was the amount of salary be was to receive? 
Did the South Australian Government offer the services of  Mr. McCann  to the Commonwealth Government at the recent Meat Conference held in London; and, if so, why were  Mr. McCann's  services not utilized? 
Were  Mr. McCann's  services offered to the Commonwealth Government to assist at the Ottawa Conference; if so, who offered his services, and why were his services refused? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
No. 
Sue answer to No. 1. 3 and 4. Yes. The Commonwealth delegation in each case had available to it the expert advice which it required. 
[3.10]  . -  I move- 
That the  bill  be  now  read a second  time. 
This small bill is of a technical nature, its principal object being to correct an error in the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930, with regard to certain by-laws continued in force by that act. Prior to the enactment of the act in 1930, the Federal Capital Commission had made certain by-laws. It was considered desirable  that  those by-laws should remain in force, despite the change in the administration of the Federal Territory effected by the act. Among them are the Accommodation by-laws, wh'ch relate to the vacation of rooms in government boarding houses. In the  act  of 1930, the by-laws continued in force are shown in a schedule, and several amendments are set out with respect to the Accommodation  by-laws  which, in fact, should have been made with respect to the Protection of Lands by-laws. The present bill proposes to correct that error and to make slight alterations of a purely formal character with respect to other by-laws mentioned in the schedule to the act of 1930. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Briefly, the purpose of this bill is to place  Hansard  on the same footing as parliamentary papers with respect to the protection accorded to the publishers. It, is provided by sections 2 and 4 of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908 that it shall be lawful for either the Senate or the House of Representatives to authorize the publication of any document laid before it, and that no action or proceeding, civil or criminal, shall lie against any person for publishing any document published under the authority of the Senate or the House of Representatives. As the reports of the parliamentary debates are not documents laid before either House, the act does not apply to them, and the only privilege attaching to the publication of the reports is that afforded by the common law. Under the common law, every fair and accurate report of any proceeding in either House is privileged even though it contains matters defamatory of an individual; but the privilege is "qualified " only, in that it is lost if the plaintiff can show that the defendant acted maliciously in making and publishing the report. Section 3 of the existing act provides that when either House of the Parliament has ordered a document to be printed, that House is to be deemed, unless the contrary intention appears in the order, to have authorized the Government Printer to publish the document. It is proposed to extend this section by further providing that each House of the Parliament is to be deemed to have  authorized the Government Printer to publish the reports of the debates in that House. The effect of the proposed amendment would be to make the publication by the Government Printer of reports of parliamentary debates absolutely privileged ; that is to say, no action could be brought against the Government Printer in respect of the publication of the reports. The actual alteration of the law to be made by the proposed amendment appears to be slight, but it seems desirable that there should be statutory authority for the publication of the official reports of parliamentary debates. I accordingly commit the measure to the consideration of the Senate, and urge that the principle contained in it be approved. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill relates to the rights of a prospective proprietor of a trade mark under international arrangements, and proposes to extend the protection at present afforded to the proprietor to his legal personal representative or assignee. This extension is in conformity with article IV. of the International Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property which was concluded at The Hague in 1925. Section 115 of the Designs Act is designed to implement international find other arrangements, and provides that any person who has applied for the protection of any trade mark in the United Kingdom or in any foreign country with which an arrangement has been made shall he entitled to the registration of his trade mark under the Commonwealth Designs Act in priority to other applicants. At present the protection is limited to the original applicant, but it isconceivable that that applicant may die during the course of proceedings prior to the grant of an  application, or may assign his rights in a registrable trade mark. The bill has been drawn to cover such contingencies by extending the right of protection to the legal personal representative or assignee of the original applicant. The amendment will, in effect, bring section 115 into line with the convention of 1925, in so far as it concerns the persons entitled to the protection specified in the convention. An extension similar to that proposed in the bill has already been effected by the Patents Act 1921, with respect to the rights of patentees, and by the Patents, Trade Marks and Designs Act of 1932, with respect to industrial designs. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
At the outset I protest against the inadequate time allowed for the scrutiny of such important papers as those containing the Government's financial proposals for the current year. Fortyeight hours is altogether too short a time for the Opposition properly to analyze such documents in preparation for their discussion. In saying that, I am not unappreciative of the courtesy of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  in agreeing to the adjournment of the debate on Monday to enable honorable senators to study the papers. I assure the Senate that the criticism of the Government's financial proposals by the Opposition will be undertaken in no facetious spirit ; but the opportunity provided by the motion will he availed of to express the views of the Labour party in regard to a number of subjects coveredby these papers. 
The budget speech confirms our previously expressed view that the Government is rightly designated " The Rich Man's Government", for during its life it has consistently taken from those least able to pay and given liberal concessions to those financial and commercial interests which dictate its policy. 
Some of the sections that the right honorable senator represents are very difficult to satisfy; however much they may be given, like Oliver Twist, they will always be asking for more. Ever since this Government has been in power, the people of Australia have been waiting for it to redeem its promise to find employment for the workless, but the present budget offers little prospect of relief, although the allimportant subject of unemployment has been in the forefront of the Government's election propaganda for the last two years. For the want of a better word, I would term the budget a dead one. There is nothing in it that will enable the common people to look forward to the ensuing twelve months with any hope of greater comfort, security, and happiness. 
I mean the people whom the Opposition represents, in contradistinction to the predatory vested interests represented by some honorable senators opposite. 
They will understand the sense in which I employ the adjective, and  will not  regard it as derogatory. 
A study of the budget can lead only to the conclusion that the Government is bankrupt of ideas and destitute of any practical policy for dealing with unemployment, which is the main problem confronting the nation to-day. Surely the Government must recognize that the whole of our economic and financial difficulties are due to the widespread unemployment. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  apparently has quickly forgotten in his new environment the men and women who fought with him so many years ago when he stood for the policy I am now enunciating. They are fighting to-day to secure for mankind the right to work, the right to live in decency and reasonable comfort, and the right to security and happiness, all of which are denied to practically 300,000 Australians and their dependants. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  too, was at one time a member of the Australian Labour party, and took part in its struggles in the interests of the working classes. The 
Prime Minister and  Senator Pearce  have apparently forgotten their association with Labour, and, worse still, they forget and ignore their election promises to grapple with the unemployment problem in a practical way. At the 1931 election the country was placarded with such slogans as " Vote for Lyons and jobs for all ", and " A vote for Lyons is a vote for work ". 
I shall deal later with the statistics, which disclose how little nearer we have come to a solution of the unemployment problem. The Commonwealth Statistician's, figures disclose that 17 per cent, of the trade unionists registered are still unemployed. Those 17 per cent, throughout this long winter, which has just passed, have had  coalless  grates, empty pantries, and all the other miseries that attend prolonged unemployment. 
I also remember the statement made by the Prime Minister while fighting the Scullin Government, which, admittedly, saved Australia, and was the real friend of the common people. According to the Melbourne  Age  of the 29th May, 1931,  Mr. Lyons  said then - 
If in the event of un election the present Government (meaning the Scullin Government) is removed from office, it will become the duty of the Opposition (meaning the United Australia party) to put forward practical proposals for the relief of the suffering. 
The Scullin Government was defeated, and  Mr. Lyons  became Prime Minister. When his first term of three years had expired, he again appealed to the people to trust him to find work for the unemployed. Had it not been for misrepresentation, and the groundless fears instilled into the minds of the people regarding Labour's financial policy, Labour would have won the last election, and the greater part of the suffering which prevails to-day would have been removed. 1 have no fear for the future, however; we shall get our opportunity so surely as the sun will rise to-morrow. Were I not certain that if Labour's financial policy were put into operation in this country unemployment would be banished, I would not remain a member of my party. 
In 1934 the Prime Minister said that the Government had decided, after many months of careful study, to take a larger share in the responsibility with regard to unemployment. Those words condemn the Government, because after two and a half years in office the Lyons Government had done nothing, despite its pledges. Where is the long range policy that was promised for the absorption of the unemployed? In the budget speech which he delivered in 1932. the Prime Minister said that it was to private enterprise that we must look to provide employment - private enterprise that has been responsible for the ghastly failure of the economic system of to-day. In the past, private enterprise absorbed about 80 per cent, of the people in employment. That was when their spending power enabled the people to purchase goods; to-day the position is different. The Prince of Wales, speaking in Great Britain some months ago, said that one of the outstanding problems with which Great Britain had to deal was that of slums. He went on to remind his hearers, who were not slum dwellers, that they were not living iri the Victorian or Edwardian age, and must find some new way of getting rid of slums, which were a direct result of unemployment and inadequate wages. Private industry cannot expand until the people have money to purchase the goods which it produces. It should be remembered that during the reign of the Bruce-Page Government Australia borrowed overseas at the rate of £30,000,000 per annum. In its report in 1932 the Economic Committee appointed by the Commonwealth Government pointed out - 
A substantial part of the prevalent unemployment is dire to the collapse of government borrowing which employed on public works 100,000 men. 
Half a million men in Australia are without any purchasing power at the present time. By juggling with the tariff this Government has done more than any other Ministry to strangle private enterprise in Australia. 
I shall deal with that point later. The Ottawa agreement led to a reduction of duties on many items of the tariff and there will be more reductions shortly. I understand that the Government has introduced a measure to enable the present duties to remain in operation notwithstanding that Parliament has had no opportunity to discuss them. The Ottawa agreement allows British manufactured goods to enter Australia and compete on equal terms with local products. This "rich man's Government" is prepared to encourage private enterprise anywhere other than in its own country. In the  Canberra Times  of 28th November, 1934,  Mr. Paterson,,  now Minister for the Interior, was reported to have said - 
Two alternatives face them; either to provide mankind with more leisure or else to em ploy about half the people of the world and put the other half on the dole. 
I wonder how honorable senators opposite feel when faced with such statements. The world has undergone a transformation since the Great War, resulting in increased production which has riot been overtaken by increased consumption.  Mr. Paterson  admitted that difficulties lay in the way of his proposals, but he said that it did seem that the problem would have to be solved along the lines of providing more leisure for the workers. I heartily agree with him. He concluded with this striking statement, which 1. recommend to his colleagues- - 
We will have to discard some of our conservatism and try to solve this new problem in a new way. 
That is in consonance with the sentiment expressed by the Prince of Wales. Although this Government proposes bo inquire into matters pertaining to unemployment - Ministers were two and a half years in office before they decided that inquiry was necessary - I believe that if the result of such an investigation should be a recommendation of shorter working hours and better conditions it will be opposed or sidetracked by this Government. I understand that the Government is shortly to resolve itself from a group of Ministers elected by the people and responsible to Parliament and the people into a variety of commissions and committees. That is one way of covering up the ineptitude of the Government. Ministers are paid to attack and solve problems; they have an obligation to show that they have the capacity to administer the country's affairs. Surely honorable senators realize that industrial mechanization and economic forces must inevitably bring about shorter working hours !  Mr. Paterson  said that we cannot continue with half the workers employed and the other half on the dole. In this rich country of Australia such a condition is altogether wrong. The Government claimed that all it had to do was to restore confidence and unlimited money would be forthcoming to put men back into work. The Government maintains that, by reducing taxation, industries will flourish again and our troubles will be ended. Confidence and taxation relief were to be the solution of the unemployment problem ! Now approximately 300,000 people are out of work in. Australia. At our very doors 700 or 800 persons are without work in this beautiful city of Canberra. This evening a deputation representing the workless of Canberra will assemble before Parliament House, led by the son of the Minister for Health '  (Mr. Hughes).  There is no excuse for any man being compulsorily unemployed in Canberra. The Stamp Branch, the Note Issue Office and the large departments that still remain in Melbourne should be transferred here without delay as was promised to the lessees of this Territory. Such a gesture by the Government would indicate to private industry that the Ministry, is in earnest about tackling unemployment. 
What a puerile question for the honorable senator to ask! It would certainly improve the position of those men and their hundreds of dependants. 
On other occasions, Ministers and their supporters have urged that Australia's economic position was wrapped up with the economic position of the world : that our prosperity depended upon world prices. We all realize the importance of our export trade, and the need for high prices for our primary products in overseas markets. But we, on this side, realize also that, because of the system, of economic nationalism which has been adopted by practically every nation, and because of the existing unsatisfactory monetary system in Australia, we must take new measures to ensure that our people are put back in employment. As a member of this chamber, my sole concern is to see that the unemployment problem of this country is dealt with in a practical manner. That is my job. If by a united effort we can solve this problem in Australia we shall at least have established a beacon light for the guidance of the governments of other countries. Our efforts should be concentrated on the development of Australian internal markets for the benefit of our primary and secondary industries. This is a national obligation resting upon us as representatives of the people, and the Government and this Parliament should accept full responsibility and bear the cost. 
After stressing the point that the States had exhausted their financial possibilities in a whole-hearted effort to overcome unemployment, and that the task was beyond the resources of the States, meaning, of course, that the State governments could not secure the necessary finance, the Prime Minister said in his policy speech - 
The Government proposes that practical anil enlarged effort* to relieve unemployment, with particular reference to the needs of the youth', shall take precedence over other government «  activities. 
That statement, I" remind honorable senators, was a definite promise contained in the policy speech of the Prime Minister. He said that the Government, if returned, would do  somethng  of a practical nature to find employment for the workless. and particularly the workless youths of this country. 
Under the heading, " A . vigorous policy of works ", the right "honorable gentleman said that he was prepared to submit "definite suggestions". The Prime Minister, it will be seen, first made a promise, and now after eighteen months of masterly inactivity, during which time he failed utterly to grapple with the problem, he says he is prepared to submit " definite suggestions ". Let us examine these " definite suggestions", to ascertain what the Prime Minister meant. One was a comprehensive scheme of national forestry. But what do we find? There is provision in the budget for an expenditure of only £258,000 to be either loaned or given to the States for this purpose. I ask honorable senators, in all seriousness, if that is the sum total of the Prime Minister's comprehensive forestry scheme. If time permitted I could tell honorable senators something of what has been done in Queensland during the last two or three years with regard to forestry development. How far will this £258,000 go in the development of a comprehensive forestry policy? No doubt  Senator Duncan-Hughes  will tell us that, following the expenditure of this sum, the position will be relatively better. 
I am aware that the Government threw on the State governments a responsibility to find an amount equal to that provided by the Commonwealth. But I remind the right honorable gentleman that in a preceding paragraph of the policy speech the Prime Minister stated that the various States had exhausted their financial resources. 
If this amount of £258,000 represents the sum total of the contribution by the Commonwealth for the development of a forestry policy it discloses a paucity of knowledge and lack of vision that are utterly deplorable. 
Apparently when the Government is not " examining " proposals it is " considering" suggestions; and when it is not appointing a commission it is " considering" the establishment of a committee; and then Parliament goes into recess and nothing is done for the unemployed. 
I am glad to hear that. I shall be happy to assist the Minister to secure an increase of the amount provided for that purpose, when the Estimates of expenditure are under consideration. The Prime Minister, in his policy speech, went on to say - 
We propose to examine, in conjunction with the State governments, any useful proposals for the training and preparation of youths for work. We must give these youths a chance to become useful citizens. 
What hypocrisy unless the suggestion is to be backed up by action ! 
The term employed by the honorable senator is somewhat strong ; I ask him to withdraw it. 
The Prime Minister also told us that the Government had in mind works of some magnitude, such as -  (a)  Unification of railway gauges. 
I heard the standardization of railway gauges as a means of relieving unemployment discussed when my hair was black. Honorable senators can judge how many years ago that was. 
Country water storage, 
Sewerage construction for large country towns and other works of like description. 
The budget shows that the Government is merely tinkering with the problem. "We have no guarantee that it will give effect to its undertakings. Among other proposals mentioned was the establishment of works for the treatment of shale and coal deposits for the extraction of oil. Rumour states that the Government intends to continue shelving this important item of policy as it has been doing for several years, although the Prime Minister told us some time ago that the Commonwealth and New South "Wales Governments had decided to enter into negotiations with a company for the development of our shale deposits. Perhaps I may digress for a moment to tell the Senate what private enterprise is doing with regard to the extraction of oil from shale and coal. The following newspaper report appeared recently :  - 
A new retorting and distillation system in connexion with extractions from shale was lately demonstrated at Mittagong, New South Wales.  Mr. A.  C. Smith, of the Commonwealth Development Branch, was present, and said he was greatly impressed. It is claimed that the process, which has been developed by Messrs. H. E. Gotting and J. M. Browne, will enable retorting and distillation to be carried out in one operation at much lower costs than those of the separate retorting and cracking processes hitherto employed. 
If  Mr. A.  C. Smith was present at that demonstration, and was impressed by it, he presumably has reported to the Government. Therefore, when I ask questions later in the session concerning the Government's intentions, it will be of no use for the Minister in Charge of Develop ment to " fob " me off, as he has done on several previous occasions, by telling me that investigations are being made and that reports disclose that the processes are altogether too expensive for adoption by Australia. I have here an extract from the  Queensland Government Mining Journal  of July, 1935 - 
In view of the difficulties of marketing the coke, processes for recovering oil from brown coal which do not make coke are. preferred. Gas' producers with low temperature carbonising auxiliaries enable the low-grade gas to be disposed of, but make tar as a by-product. Some 40,000 metric tons of tar are produced annually in these plants in Germany, apart from the amounts not marketed but used for firing the plants. Messrs. Pintsch have also evolved what is termed a "flush gas" low temperature carbonising process which works in conjunction with travelling grate stokers. The hot furnace gases are drawn up by the briquette charge in the furnace, while the low temperature coke leaves the carbonising shaft from below and is fed to the travelling grate in the hot state. In this process, tar is the only product recovered, but the use of such plants are restricted, as they are necessarily dependent on furnaces and cannot be regarded as independent low temperature carbonising plants. 
As regards the actual production of oils, the process is confined at present to the Leuna Works of the I.G. Farben-industrie, whose experiments are now completed. 
There is no need for the Government to undertake further experiments. A letter costing 2d. for a stamp will obtain all the information available as to what is being done in other countries. The extract continues - 
The process is noteworthy in so far as oils are derived from the brown coal as the main product, and only comparatively small quantities of gas are made and can be utilised without difficulty. Compared with other tar recovery processes, the only feature of the hydrogenation of brown coal is that the percentage of bitumen in the coal has no effect on the yield of oil. This is an important point as regards the life of the German brown coal resources. 
Another extract from the same journal deals with the distillation of coal in South Africa, and shows what can be done. The distillation of coal in Australia would give a number of by-products which would make Australia increasingly independent of other nations, especially in times of national emergency. The journal to which I have referred also contains the following: - 
Much progress has recently been made in the United Kingdom in the direction and conduct of the investigations of fuel problems, and by the researches of science in the field of oil production from coal. 
We are frequently advised to follow the example of Great Britain. I suggest that its example he followed in this instance. The extract continues - 
As is stated by the  chairman  of the Fuel Research Board in his annual report for the year ended the 31st March, 1933, " The scientific study of the utilization of our coal resources should have for its objects not only the well-being of our great mining industry; it should help to increase the competitive power of our manufacturing industries by lowering costs of production and increasing the efficiency of coal utilization; and it should make the country less dependent upon imported fuels ". 
It is admitted that the unemployment figures have shown a decrease; but as that improvement is not confined to Australia the Government is not justified in taking all of the credit to itself. The seriousness of the unemployment problem in this country cannot be overstated. The 1933 census figures give the number of persons unemployed in Australia as 480,000, with a further 27,000 persons employed only part time and in receipt of sustenance or relief work. That represents a total of 507,000 persons compulsorily idle in a rich country like Australia, whose total population is less than 7,000,000. We who draw salaries as legislators in this Parliament ought to be ashamed of that position. Unless the Government can bring forward immediately proposals to end that state of affairs it should make way for another government which would be prepared to do so. During the second quarter of 1933 the statistical returns covering those trade unions which report their membership and unemployed members showed that 106,000 unionists were out of work. Those figures represent only 56 per cent, of the trade unions. It will be seen, therefore, that the unemployed, as disclosed by the census, are about four and threequarter times as many as the number of unemployed unionists reported by the trade unions. For the second quarter of the present year the statistics show 77,000 unemployed trade unionists. Computing on the same basis, it will be seen that approximately 366,000 men are still unemployed. That total excludes many thousands of youths under the age of sixteen years who have left school and are seeking employment. How long is this state of affairs to continue? There is no hope for these unfortunate people in the proposals of the Government. 
In 1925 the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  said - 
The man with a family is the greatest asset to the community and it is essential that the greatest encouragement and assistance should bo given to such nien. 
The working man is the man with a family, but what has the Government done for him? Although when I began the analysis of the census figures I knew that the position was serious, I had no idea that it was so tragic as the statistics disclosed. The census returns give a total of 3,149,000 breadwinners in the Commonwealth, made up of the following classes : - 

<graphic href="147332193509255_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

Of the wage and salary earners 392,000 persons were in receipt of no income whatever. Can honorable senators imagine what that means? 

<graphic href="147332193509255_9_1.jpg"></graphic>

The census figures also disclose that 874,000 persons in the Commonwealth earn less than £52 per annum. Expressed in another way, the census discloses that 36 per cent, of the wage and salary earners receive less than £1 a week; if pensioners are included, the proportion is 52.7 per cent. The position is more clearly set out in the following table: - 

<graphic href="147332193509255_9_1.jpg"></graphic>

At the eightieth annual meeting of the Melbourne City Mission, held on the 21st May last, the superintendent and secretary,  Mr. F.  L. Bruce, stated,  inter  alia - 
The executive feels that more should be done for derelict men. We have 600 destitute men at our meetings each week, and at each meeting food is provided. Among them are many desperately in earnest to detach themselves from the unsavoury environment in which they are forced to live. 
That is the experience of only one mission in one capital city. The Melbourne  Star  of the 2nd June, 1934, published the following: - 
When arrears of rent caused the eviction yesterday of  Mrs. Jessie  Compt and her four children from a house in Spring-street, Fitzroy, her few pieces of furniture were piled in a back lane adjoining a forge and machine shop. There, huddled about a fire which burned in a dustbin, the family kept a cold and dreary vigil last night, while the thermometer dropped to a mimimum  of 41 degrees. 
To add to  Mrs.  Compt's  distress she had the worry of nursing a child aged 18 months, who was, until recently, an inmate of the Queen Victoria Hospital, suffering from pneumonia, while she herself has been in poor health since the birth of a child who died a few weeks ago. 
In its issue of the 6th June, 1934, the Melbourne  Star  stated - 
While neighbours in adjacent streets watched from front fences, and a posse of plainclothes police was stationed nearby,  Mrs. L.  Babinall  and her family of seven children were evicted from their house in Duke-street, Richmond to-day. 
Richmond police, fearing trouble, had strong reinforcements ready. 

 Mrs. Babinall  was besieged by neighbours tendering offers of help and shelter. 
Four mounted police were stationed at the Richmond police yard and nine plainclothes men and more than a dozen uniformed constables were ready in case of trouble. This, however, did not occur. 
The Melbourne  Sun  of the 26th June, 1934, published the following story of the eviction of a " digger " : - 
Because he had failed to meet payments due, H, T. Thompson, a former soldier, was evicted yesterday by the War Service Homes Commission from his home in Gallipoli-street, West Coburg. Thompson has a wife and four daughters. On behalf of the Commission it was stated last night that after full inquiry into the circumstances Thompson had been treated according to the Commission's policy. The photograph shows some of Thompson's belongings after they had been removed from the house. 
This man, who was cheered in 1914, was evicted in 1934! 
It was stated in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 24th September that Archbishop Mowll, speaking on the previous day at a meeting of the Synod of the Diocese of Sydney, had said - 
We cannot be content with a scheme for the rebuilding of Macquarie-street, important as that will be for the beauty and prestige of our city, if there is not at the same time a determined effort to improve the conditions in many of our poorer districts. Those of us who know the parishioners of our poorer city parishes are amazed by their self-respect, their courage, and their decency, notwithstanding the unlovely and depressing environment in which they live. In one school which I recently caused to be visited, 80 per cent, of the children appeared to be underfed and underclothed. The headmaster stated that, after 2 o'clock, the mental fatigue of the scholars waa so marked as to make the afternoon's work practically useless. 
The Archbishop was not speaking of events in effete and old countries, with centuries of alleged civilization behind them, but of what was taking place in this wonderful and beautiful Australia.  [Leave to continue given."] 
I submit that the figures I have read in regard to the numbers of the unemployed, and the earnings of the breadwinners of this country, are astounding.  Mr. A.  E. Clarkson, one of the South Australian employers' delegates at the Industrial Peace Conference, made the following statement when addressing the Rotary Club : - 
If unemployment were  unescapable,  then the problem should be accepted as a direct charge in some form or another on industry or the community. 
He did not plead for the dole system, with its debasing influence, but every worker had a right to expect employment. 
Speaking at Castlemaine during the last elections, the Prime Minister said - 
The Government believed that the reemployment of the people was a national obligation. 
Yet the Lyons Government has been in office for four years, and there are still between 300,000 and 350,000 people out of work. The Prime Minister also said in his policy speech - 
My Government believes that it would be wiser in the general interests to engage in a limited number of sound major employment works than to dissipate money upon a multiplicity of small local jobs of doubtful character. 
I may mention that none of the figures I have quoted have relation to the Northern Territory or the Federal Capital Territory. 
The budget shows that £8,600,000 is to be expended on public works, of which £3,000,000 is to be allocated for the rehabilitation of the wheat-growing industry! But no money devoted to that industry can be regarded as expenditure on public works. We all know that the greater part of that £3,000,000 will find its way to the pockets of the big financial institutions. The individual farmer will get nothing with which to purchase the necessaries of life or to take a muchneeded holiday, or in any way to make life better for himself, although any expenditure in that direction would naturally create employment. Not long ago, when this Parliament was considering legislation designed to. give assistance to the wheat-farmers,  Senator E.  B. Johnston submitted an amendment, in opposition to the Government which he supports, providing that the sum of at least £50 should be reserved for the benefit of each farmer, instead of being permitted to pass into the hands of those who have already ridden too long on the backs of the primary producers. Members of the Opposition assured  Senator Johnston  that they would support him in his efforts to ensure that £50 would find its way to- the home of the farmer for the direct benefit of himself and those dependent on him. I thought that the Government would have acccepted that amendment with open arms. 
Amounts are being expended on the post office, defence, river Murray waters, railways generally, war service homes, and the Federal Capital Territory, which under ordinary circumstances must necessitate yearly expenditure. It may be argued that these amounts are greater than in the past, but we should allow for the fact that for the past three years the budget has disclosed surpluses. Last year the British Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr. Neville  Chamberlain, in presenting the annual budget, which showed the largest surplus for fifteen years, said - 
The improvement in the country's position was due almost entirely to the expansion of the home market. 
All that this Government has done has resulted in restricting the home market.  Mr. Keynes,  one of England's most brilliant economists, stated in 1932 - 
 There is more chance of improving the profitableness of business by fostering enterprise, and by such measures as public works, than by a further pressure on money-wages or a further forcing of exports. 
How can we improve our home market unless we first increase the spending power of the people, and how can we increase the spending power of the people unless we place them in employment? Hartley Withers, a recognized authority on finance, when referring to American industry and the world depression, said - 
In fact, the present depression is bringing home to all employers the conviction that mass production cannot exist without mass consumption, and from that conviction to the necessity of high wages is but a short step. 
Last year the present Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  advocated a five-year plan of road construction, with the object of relieving unemployment. What has been done in that direction? At the beginning of this year, according to the  Age  of the 26th February of this year, the then Premier of Victoria  (Sir Stanley Argyle)  said - 
With regard to unemployment, sometime before Christmas the Commonwealth Government realized for the first time that it was not bearing its fair share of the unemployment relief burden, and called upon the States to submit programmes. He submitted a programme of works totalling £5,000,000 spread over three years. The Government then began to hedge. 
That is not the statement of a Labour Premier. Lord D'Abernon, post-war ambassador to Berlin, and a leading financier, economist and statesman in Great Britain, speaking on the world depression in 1931, said - 
I hold that the deplorable conditions are due in the main to the fall in prices of staple commodities. This fall has been brought about by the scarcity of means of payment. 
The Labour party appeals to the electors to give it power to institute a system of financial reform which will give consumers a sufficient supply of the commodities they require. A bold public works policy would go a long way towards relieving our present economic position, but there is no mention of such a policy in the budget just presented to this Parliament. Some time ago the State governments prepared lists of numerous public works which could be put in hand if the money were available; but I should like honorable senators opposite to note that more money is not required; all that is needed is sufficient debt-free credit issued against the wonderful productivity of this nation. An extensive works plan would mean - 
Increased employment. 
The works carried out would he of benefit to the country. 
Saving in sustenance by the States which are to-day struggling to balance their budgets. 
Increase of the spending power of the community and that would in turn have the effect of - 
assisting our primary producers; 
starting the wheels of our secondary industries moving, thus bringing more money now lying idle in the banks into the industrial field; 
raising the price levels. 
It is interesting to study the comments contained in a leading article in the 
Melbourne  Herald  of the 6th July, 1934, dealing with a proposal before a Premiers conference to float a loan of from £7,500,000 to £15,000,000 to relieve  unemployment.  A portion of that article reads; - 
Assuming that it can hu demonstrated that n. »s now necessary and wise to secure additional funds for the governments to spend immediately on unemployment relief work, there is a way in which such funds could be made available without the dangers attendant on an attempt to float a public loan. If a legitimate ease can be put before the Commonwealth Bank, it would become the function of the Commonwealth Bank Board to arrange for reasonable expansion of bank credit. 
They all are coming round to the Labour party's policy. The article continues - 
The money advanced by the Commonwealth Bank would not necessarily restrict bank advances to legitimate enterprise. It is even arguable that the process would increase the ability of the hanks to expand credit generally, because it would be new money put into circulation, earning profits and eventually returning to the banks in  form of  deposits. 
The Melbourne  Herald,  which is the "mouthpiece of this Government, advocated exactly what the Labour party wishes to do, and that is to place new money in circulation in order to provide additional employment. 
In the matter of taxation the Government displays a wonderful capacity for doing things in the wrong way. Since 3930-31 Commonwealth taxation has increased from £50,400,000 to £58,700,000. The Government is pursuing its usual course of remitting direct taxation by way of land tax, company tax, and the property tax, while at the same time increasing the indirect taxation which is paid by the workers. In 1930-31 the land tax assessments amounted to £2,964,000, and in 1934-35 to £1,092,000. "What a wonderful present to make to the landowners of this country, practically every one of whom is thoroughly well equipped financially and able to meet the tax ! Had the 1930-31 land tax assessments remained operative the Government would have received an additional £5,500,000. What is the position in regard to income taxation ?  In 1930-31 the amount received was £13,600,000, and in 1934-35 it was £S,700.000. Had the 1930-31 taxation remained operative the Government would have received an additional £12,000,000 in taxation from this source. 
To whom were remissions made? Not to the workers who produce the profits, but to the land owners and others who were well able to pay. I am not in favour of unduly high taxation, but when our economic position is such that thousands of our people are on the verge of starvation and over one half are receiving £1 a week or less it is inequitable to remit taxation to those well able to pay it, and to place further burdens upon those on the bread line. 
In the matter of indirect taxation the figures are startling. In 1930-31 the indirect taxation per head of population amounted to £4 18s. Id., which, when added to direct taxation of £2 17s.  7 1/4 d.  made a total of £7 15s.  8 1/4 d.  In 1934-35 the indirect taxation amounted to £7 0s. 10$d., and the direct taxation to £1 14s. 5d., making a total of £8 J 5s. 3j):d. These figures show an increase of  £2  2s. per head of population in indirect taxation and a decrease of £1 3s. 2d. in direct taxation. The indirect taxation is paid by the workers - the profit-makers - and the direct taxation by the profit-takers. The reduction of direct taxation benefits principally the wealthy classes, financial institutions and companies. 
The Treasurer's claim that he has  reduced  taxation since he has been in office is one of the most fantastic ever made in any Parliament. It is true that he has reduced taxation of a particular kind - that he has collected less direct taxation from certain classes in the country but at the same time he has steadily increased the flow of money into the Treasury and has actually collected more both in the aggregate and from each individual taxpayer. He has merely shifted the load of income from the top to the bottom and has not actually relieved those people whom he has sought to help, by the remission of direct, taxation. 
That gentleman, who is now a member of the Cabinet is at present on the other side of the world endeavouring to fix up some more Mumbo-J umbo trade arrangements which will merely get us further into the mire.  Sir Henry  Gullett continued - 
I should endeavour to explain how vicious is the effect upon industry of that change and how progress is retarded when direct taxation is removed from the top and a corresponding or greater amount of indirect taxation is collected at the bottom. 

 I have a good deal of information on the subject of rural rehabilitation but time will not permit me to say all that I wish to say. According to the United Australia party the Country party is a self interested party and its only concern is alleged to be for the farmer. According to the Country party the United Australia party is a party dominated by city and vested interests. The representatives of both parties maintain that they are greatly concerned about our primary producers, and have made extravagant statements concerning how they are going to remove the difficulties now confronting the producers. After years of political wrangling during which the two parties have at times accused each other of doing everything but the right thing to place our primary industries on a sound basis, they have again amalgamated. Every year we hear the same whine about the difficulties of the primary producers who, we all know, are the very backbone of the nation, and each year they are forced to appeal to this Parliament like mendicants asking for assistance to enable them to carry on for another twelve months. For how long will the Government allow the present conditions to continue? It purported to do something last year, and it proposes to do something this year; but every one knows that not one penny of the money voted last year for rural rehabilitation went into the pockets of the primary producers. Nor will any of the money proposed to be expended this year go to them. It will go to the banks and financial institutions in the form of reductions of overdrafts. That is not a statesmanlike way of tackling rural problems. Australia is rich enough, and the people are willing to pay the primary producers such a price for their products as will enable them to live in comfort if not in luxury. 
I desire briefly to refer to the GovernorGeneralship. A few years ago when I knew that, for the first time in our history, an Australian-born Governor-General had been appointed, I was, indeed, a proud Australian. I regret to state that this Government has behaved shamefully regarding that high office. A. few months ago we had the spectacle of the Prime Minister running about like a common huckster hawking the position of Governor-General from one place to another, and finding " no takers ". He approached the Royal Family itself, and, finding " no takers " there for the Governor-Generalship, he came down the scale, until the choice fell upon a gentlemen, of whose worthiness I have no doubt whatever, but who is in. no way the equal of the present Governor-General, who is shortly to retire. 
No senator shall use the name of  His  Majesty or of his representative in this Commonwealth disrespectfully in debate, nor for the purpose of influencing the Senate in its deliberations. 
I submit that it is not in order for the honorable senator to discuss the qualifications of the incoming Governor-General. 
Standing Order 417, to which the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has directed attention, clearly provides that no honorable senator shall use the name of the Governor-General disrespectfully or to influence the opinion of the Senate. The latter portion of the honorable senator's remarks was, I consider, intended to influence opinion in favour of a nativehorn Governor-General as against one not of Australian birth. He is, therefore, not in order. 
The honorable senator has made comparisons to the disadvantage of other Governors-General. He is not entitled to do that. 
No, not that. The statements of the honorable senator imply that it is a bar sinister to come from overseas. 
The honorable senator's remarks were capable of that interpretation. 
Regarding salary restorations, the recurring surpluses remove the slightest excuse for failure to make full restoration of the salaries of public servants, and pensions. 
Something very much better than the method of censorship now used is imperative. The position is almost intolerable. Even the churches are protesting. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
.- Before dealing with the budget, I desire to reply to the extraordinary statements made this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  He said that this budget did not take into consideration in any way the " common " people whom he professes to represent. 
I represent them as fully as does the honorable senator. I have been very careful in my perusal of Commonwealth budgets to see that the " common " people have been given a fair deal. The statements of the Leader of the Opposition this afternoon are likely to inflame the minds of those who have no opportunity to delve into Commonwealth statistics or to read carefully the budget papers. The honorable senator's remarks will be read by people who are not able to verify his statements, and as he is the leader of a party, they may be accepted as facts. The Leader of the Opposition said definitely that this Government has done nothing to relieve unemployment in Australia. Reference to the budget will show that various sums of money have been made available by this Government for relief of distress caused by unemployment. On page 63 of the budget papers honorable senators will find under the heading " Financial assistance to States that in 1932-33 the sum of £1,155,698 was provided by the Commonwealth from loan for unemployment relief works. In 1934-35 £22,883 was provided from the same fund for the same purpose, in addition to the following grants to the States under the Loan (Unemployment Relief Works) Act: - Metalliferous mining, £75,000; relief works, £250,000; and forestry, £64,000; making a total, under these four heads, of £411,883. Page 89 also reveals the following proposals for financial assistance to the States in 1935-36: - Unemployment relief works, £750,000; assistance for metalliferous mining, £208,750; and forestry, £258,000. These sums are apart from the £3,000,000 for farmers' debt adjustment, and make the total provision for the current year, £4,216,750, and still the honorable senator tells the people that this Government is not concerned about the unemployed. The figures which I have quoted prove that such a statement is unwarranted, and, coming from a public man, is inexcusable. The honorable senator charged the Government with relying on private enterprise to solve the unemployment problem. I believe that the solution must always lie with the extension of private enterprise, and for that reason it is the duty of every government not to hinder private enterprise, but to give it every opportunity to expand. 
The experience of the last three years in Australia has shown that, through the opportunities given to private enterprise to extend its operations, unemployment has greatly diminished. I agree with the honorable senator that the most lamentable feature of unemployment is the lack of work for our youths; but does he appreciate what has been the greatest factor in bringing about this unfortunate position? The cause can be traced, not to the Commonwealth Parliament or to any Commonwealth Government, but to State legislation; and the party which  Senator Brown  supports has always protested against any effort to effect an amelioration of existing conditions. 
I gave my reply to that accusation last year, and I do not think the honorable senator ought to repeat it. I said then that this Parliament has no right so to legislate that a lad leaving school, and compelled a few years later to accept the responsibility of manhood, shall not be allowed to work in the meantime. That is the effect of the State laws. I can see no justification for keeping a lad in that condition. 
We have spent millions of pounds in educating these boys. Many of them have been trained at technical schools in trades to which they may be suited; but owing to the operation of certain laws, they cannot be employed. 
If the honorable senator and the party of which he is a member would recognize the seriousness of the position, they would realize the need for amending the existing laws. 
I believe in cheap child labour no more than the honorable senator does ; but I assert that every child brought into this world should be given at least the same opportunity as his father had. 
But the honorable senator's party does everything to hinder a lad's chances. This is one of the greatest tragedies we have to face. There is a growing opinion in the Commonwealth that something must be done to solve this problem, but up to the present no definite plan has been formulated. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  is keenly interested, and he has promised to co-operate fully with the States in any practical plan that they can devise to find employment for the youths of this country. 
That would not overcome the difficulty. If the working day were only three hours the awards of wages boards and other tribunals would still operate, and these lads would still he denied the opportunity to find employment. I have spoken with scores of parents who are heart-broken because under the law of the land their boys have been refused employment. According to age, a fixed scale of wages must be paid to boys, whether or not they know anything about the business they are entering. A boy who left school at the age of 15 and has no possible chance of obtaining employment until he is 18 then finds that he cannot get employment owing to the stipulated wage being more than he is worth. Year by year our unemployed population is being augmented 'by young people who a few years hence should be the hope and driving force of the nation. 
I have studied the savings bank statistics to ascertain whether the doleful picture painted by the Leader of the Opposition is justified. These figures are a true indicator of a country's prosperity. Deposits in the savings banks in 1931 amounted to £193,375,000. During the regime of the present Government, whose administration has been so strongly condemned by the Leader of the Opposition, deposits materially increased until in 1934 they totalled £210,676,000, an improvement of £17,301,000. Is that a sign of adversity? Those figures could never have been realized had there been no improvement in the economic condition of the country. 
The honorable senator said that this Government had as its motive for the reduction of taxation the lifting of the burden from those wellable to hear it and the imposition of a heavier burden upon the common people. He quoted figures to substantiate his contention, but figures can be made to prove anything. I propose to quote other statistics to show exactly the opposite. Customs and excise taxation, which chiefly affects the common people, whereas direct taxation does not, was £6 9s. 3d. a head in 1929, but in 1933 had dropped to £4 19s.11d. The Labour party opposed that decrease although it meant relief for the common people. Every effort made in the Senate to reduce this burden was vigorously opposed by members of the Labour party. 
During the last few years, considerable relief from indirect taxation has been given to the common people. Has the reduction of direct taxation tended to relieve the masses of the people or to increase their difficulties? Every business man knows that the lighter the burden of taxation, the more employment he can give by extending his operations. Because of the reduction of taxation made by the present Government there are indications of a diminution of distress, and an increase of output. The common people have also been assisted by a reduction of the sales tax which affects the masses rather than the wealthy few. The sales tax was imposed at a high rate by the Scullin Government. 
Yes; it had the responsibility to balance the budget and introduced the sales tax which proved an onerous burden on the common people. The present Government has exerted every effort to relieve the people of this tax.  Senator Collings  stated that only the party with which he is associated had any real sympathy for the unemployed, and that a Labour government would take steps to find work for persons now on the dole.For some time the present Government has been co-operating with all the States to attain this most desirable end. As the present Government has provided large sums year after year for the purpose of assisting the States, I was somewhat surprised to read the following statement in a mainland newspaper - 
Hobart, September 18. 
At a conference at Hobart to-day of delegates from unemployed organizations in Tasmania, the State Government was strongly criticized for its attitude towards the unemployment problem. It was alleged that promises given during the election campaign with regard to bettering conditions for the unemployed had not been honoured, and that the unemployed were worse off than when a Nationalist government was in power. 
Yet a representative of the Labour party stated with some heat to-day that the present composite Government in this Parliament has no sympathy with the unemployed. The budget shows that in co-operation with the States the Commonwealth Government is giving practical assistance for the relief of unemployment. 
The smallness of the population of the Commonwealth is one of the most important subjects to which we can direct attention. We have a country which probably has more blessings to the square foot than any other country has to the square yard. Australia is mainly undeveloped and its inhabitants number little more than 6,500,000. In 1921, when the population was only slightly over 5,500,000, the natural annual increase was 82,000. In 1933 there were almost 1,250,000 more people in Australia, and the natural increase dropped to 52,000. These figures are alarming, and, in view of the great distance that separates us from other more populous portions of the globe, we should do all we can to set our house in order. The health conference which took place recently in Canberra dealt with this important matter, and I hope that efforts will be made in the near future to accomplish something practical to increase our population. I believe that the Minister for Health  (Mr. Hughes)  is earnestly seeking a solution of the problem. From the national point of view it is imperative that efforts be made to increase our numbers materially during the next, ten or twenty years. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  on his return from abroad, stated, according to the newspapers, that this vital matter would have to be investigated as speedily as possible, and I agree that the problem should be seriously considered without delay. There should be cooperation and collaboration between the Commonwealth Government and the governments of the various States in order to devise a scheme by which it will be possible considerably to increase the population in the next ten years. An excellent example of what can be done in this direction is furnished in Western Australia. 
What does the cost matter, when prompt action is necessary to save Australia ? A visit to other countries not far removed from our shores enables one to realize how vitally important it is for us to have more people here. Work such as that being accomplished at the Fairbridge Farm School in Western Australia could be done in every part of Australia almost immediately. I understand that 4,000 boys and girls have passed through that school, and 98 per cent, of them have been passed as " Al ". 
Yes. The inauguration of this remarkably successful scheme is due to the efforts of  Mr. Fairbridge,  who devoted the later years of his life to the project. With the aid of sympathizers in the Old Country and local committees in Western Australia, the farm was eventually established, despite serious initial difficulties. The boys and girls who are trained there are brought up in good, homely surroundings and every cottage has a senior girl to act as mother to the occupants. The life proves so attractive to the young people that after their training they frequently return to the farm for their holidays, because they regard it as their home. There might well be three or four such institutions in each of the States, and their establishment would not dislocate the labor market, for no great difficulty has been experienced in absorbing these boys and girls into the industrial population. 
I am dealing with the urgent need for increased population in the Commonwealth. 
I am gratified to notice that the careful and wise administration of the Government has enabled it to submit a most satisfactory budget. The careful management of the finances by the Ministry  is largely responsible for the increased prosperity experienced in the last few years, and I hope that the handsome surplus disclosed will be wisely utilized in order that further progress may be assured. I had hoped to find in the Treasurer's proposals provisions for a much larger decrease of direct taxation than is contemplated. Some of the direct taxation imposed some time ago was evidently introduced without due regard to the extent to which it would retard the development of this country. I am glad that the Government intends gradually to reduce the special tax which was super-imposed upon the three other federal income taxes. 
I should have liked to see the special tax on property removed, or reduced by half with a view to its elimination within a year or two. I hope that even now, in view of the good prospects for the coming year, provision will be made for a greater reduction of this particular impost. Last year I submitted an amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Bill, with a view to getting a grievance remedied, but I did not obtain sufficient support. I have taken this action for three years, and I shall not rest until justice is done to a deserving section of the community. Provision is made in the principal act that those whose total income is under a certain amount shall not be subject to the tax. Although these persons are not liable for income tax, according to the act, the department has levied the higher rate of tax on a certain number of them whose incomes have been below the amount of the exemption. 
In 1931 the Income Tax Assessment Bill provided that it should be optional on the part of a company which paid dividends on preference shares to deduct the special property tax from those dividends. The company pays the tax direct to the Commissioner. If a person received a total income of £50 a year, - that is, £200 below the exemption - which was derived from dividends on preference shares, the Commissioner would receive £5 in the form of income taxation at the original 2s. rate. Although it has been represented to the Treasurer that this practice is contrary to the letter and spirit of the Income Tax Act, it still continues. The taxation authorities say that the anomaly cannot be removed owing to administrative difficulties; but there should be no difficulty in refunding money to which the department is not entitled. If a person whose income is below the exempt amount can prove to the department that a company has deducted £10, £15, £20 or £50 during the last three years in the form of a special property tax on income received from dividends on preference shares, the tax should be refunded to him by the Commissioner. 
I did not think it right that a member of Parliament should approach the commission, but I mentioned it to a member of the legal profession in Hobart, who questioned me on the subject. I understood that he would place the facts before the commission when he gave evidence, but unfortunately, he did not. If the department is satisfied that it has received, through a company, a property tax dividend payable to a person who is exempt under the act, the money should be refunded. 
The difficulty could be overcome by compelling any person making such a claim to sign a statutory declaration, and if the declaration were false he would be liable to a heavy penalty. 

 Senator Collings referred to the necessity for increased governmental activity in the matter of re-afforestation, and I trust that further financial assistance will be provided so that we shall have a comprehensive re-afforestation policy throughout the Commonwealth. Recently I have visited the East, where I made  numerous inquiries into various subjects, including afforestation. In Japan I found that even small areas unsuitable for the production of foodstuffs are used for afforestation purposes. "We should take off our hats to the Japanese people for the foresight they have displayed in utilizing the territory under their control in the way they have. In Japan pines are planted wherever they, are likely to thrive, and to-day some of the plantations are being cut for commercial purposes. Our supplies of timber are becoming depleted and a policy of reafforestation should be tackled on scientific lines so that a sufficient quantity of timber will always be available. 
Returning from the East I paid a brief visit to New Guinea and inspected the native hospital a couple of miles from Rabaul. For some time it was customary to provide an amount on the Commonwealth estimates to assist in providing medical services for the natives in the Mandated Territory, but owing to tho rapid development of the gold industry the revenue received has been sufficient to enable the authorities to carry on without an annual vote from the Commonwealth Parliament. When I visited the hospital I was informed that in the matter of equipment, location and general layout it is one of the finest native hospitals in the world. Everything is provided in the interests 'of the native races. I am pleased to find that such a modern institution is available, because the future of that territory depends upon a healthy native population. Everything possible should be done to develop the territory by bringing larger numbers of natives under consol and showing them how to increase production. It is pleasing to find that remarkable progress has been made in the direction of stamping 'out tropical diseases. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Brown)  adjourned. 
I have received from  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral a commission to administer to senators the oath or affirmation of allegiance. 
Commission laid on the table and read by the Acting Clerk. 
HUGHES. - Is the Minister for External Affairs in a position to give the Senate any further information with regard to the ItaloAbyssinian dispute? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Certain communications . have been received from the British Government, but at present there is nothing to communicate to the Senate. 
On  the 24th September  Senator Johnston  asked the following questions,  upon, notice :  - 
Is it a fact that prior to federation, Denham, Shark Bay, Western Australia, was a port of entry for goods from overseas? 
Why has an alteration been made? 
Will the Government take steps to restore this port to its pre-federal status as a Customs port of entry? 
If not, why not? 
I am now able to furnish the honorable senator with the following information :  - 
and 2. Inquiries have been made but no evidence could be obtained that Denham, Shark Bay, . was, prior  to  federation,  a  port of entry for overseas vessels. 
and 4. On a number of occasions consideration has been given to representations that Denham be established as a port under the Customs Act, but the volume of overseas trade likely to be offering at that place - is considered to be altogether too small to warrant such action. 
Can the Leader of the Senate state when copies of the second report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission will be available for honorable senators ? 
Is the Postmaster-General in a position to state when the new submarine telephone line between Tasmania and the mainland will be available for use? 
I have not yet acquired encyclopaedic knowledge of the activities of my department, but I can assure the honorable senator that the new service will be available early in the new year. The vessel conveying the equipment is now on its way to Australia. 
Pursuant to Standing Order 28a, I hereby nominate Senators A. 0. Badman,C. W. Grant and J. V. MacDonald a panel to act as Temporary Chairmen of Committees, when requested so to do by the  Chairman  of Committees, or when the  Chairman  of Committees is absent. 
Pursuant to Standing Order No. 38,I hereby appoint the following senators to be the Com-, mittee of Disputed Returns and Qualifications: Senators J. S. Collings, W. G. Gibson, W. Plain and O. Uppill. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
What is the number of returned soldiers temporarily employed as linesmen, conduit workers and mechanics in the PostmasterGeneral's Department, Victoria - 
What is the number of returned soldiers engaged to carry out flood damage repairs and work in connexion with the Victorian Centenary Celebrations ? 
If the answers to 1 (a) and (b) are not identical, how many of the discharged men are married, and what is the total period of temporary employment of each one prior to 1st July, 1934? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questions is as follows: - 
Enquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Prime Minister to make a statement to Parliament regarding the meat question and intra-Empire trade generally ? 
If so, when? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The following replies to the honorable senator's questions have been furnished by the Prime Minister: - 
Yes. 
At an early date. 
[3.18].- I move- 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
The bill affected by this motion has as its object the validation of the collection of certain duties of customs beyond the period of six months which ends on the 28th September. It therefore must be passed this week. It is not of sufficient importance to necessitate the attendance of honorable senators here tomorrow, and the motion is moved so that the bill may be disposed of to-day, in which case those honorable senators who desire to do so may leave Canberra by train to-night. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, and bill (on motion by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan)  read a first time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure provides for the validation until the 30th November, 1935, of collections of duty made in accordance "with the customs tariff proposals introduced into the House of Representatives on the 28th March last. As honorable senators are aware, unless the schedule is passed by both Houses of Parliament within six months from the date of introduction, a validating bill is necessary. As there is insufficient time within which fully to debate the items separately before the 28th of this month, Parliament is being asked to validate the collections until the 30th November. This is the date to which collections under the tariff proposals introduced on the 6th December last are also validated. The validation of the collections of duties under both proposals until the same date will afford the Government an opportunity to combine the two schedules, thus making it more convenient for the discussion of individual items. 
The Opposition will not oppose the passage of this measure. We understand its purport, and the necessity for it. When the Scullin Government was in office, and adopted precisely the same procedure as is now being followed, honorable senators who sit on the other side of the chamber bitterly denounced that Ministry's policy. However, that need not affect the situation this afternoon, although I cannot resist the impulse to remind honorable senators of their former attitude. Honorable senators of the party to which I belong are somewhat flattered to know that the present Government has been obliged to adopt this procedure, as well as some other practices introduced by the Scullin Administration. Perhaps the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  will assure the chamber that within a reasonable time honorable senators will have an opportunity to discuss the tariff items in a detailed and thorough manner. 
.- While not objecting to this bill, I consider that the principle involved is altogether wrong. In matters entailing grave consequences both to the manufacturers and the community in general the fullest possible discussion should be permitted. Many months have passed since the tariff schedules were introduced, but so far they have not been debated by Parliament. Trade and industry are vitally interested in the new customs duties, and have been waiting for an opportunity totest them. I am quite satisfied that the Government has no desire to repeat this method of carrying on business, but will afford honorable senators an opportunity to express their views on tariff matters at the earliest opportunity. The present method by which reductions of dutiesbecome law as soon as new schedulesare laid on the table is viewed with grave concern in many quarters. I hope that when tariff schedules are brought down in future, every opportunity will be afforded immediately for their consideration by the Parliament and the public. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Validation of collections under tariff proposals). 
I fully agree with the sentiment expressed by  Senator Leckie,  though possibly from a different view-point, that validating bills of this description are undesirable. When a similar measure was introduced in this chamber on a previous occasion this year, I expressed the hope that it would not constitute a precedent for future action, and the Minister in charge of the bill indicated that it would not. I trust this will be the last occasion on which it will be necessary for the Government to introduce a validating bill of this kind. Having studied this clause I believe that a grave anomaly might arise which would prevent the return or refund of duties collected in error or held in abeyance pending the production of additional information. This clause reads - 
All duties of customs demanded or collected on or before the 30th day of November . . . shall be deemed to have been lawfully imposed and lawfully demanded or collected. 
That might prevent the refunding of money to importers who had been overcharged. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that this clause will not be used in any way to prevent a refund from being made to a person who has been overcharged? 
The honorable senator has raised what might at first appear to be an interesting point, but I believe that it has been considered before. The words that govern the clause are: "pursuant to the customs tariff proposals." The collections must be pursuant to those proposals. If not, the importer stands in exactly the same position as one who has been unlawfully overcharged under schedules that have been finally passed by Parliament. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure, which is associated with the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2), ensures that the exchange adjustment amendments necessitated by the ordinary customs tariff proposals of the 28th March, 1935, shall operate to the date mentioned in that measure, namely, the 30th November, 1935. As the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) has been passed, the passage of this measure is essential. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
Providencehas come to the rescue of the Government. Droughts in other countries and rumours of war between Italy and Abyssinia have increased prices for Australian primary products in overseas markets, with the result that the budget figures presented to the Senate on Monday disclosed an improvement, for which however Ministers cannot claim justly the whole of the credit. This being the case, no surprise need be occasioned if we, on this side, examine critically the Government's policy and administrative record. 

 Senator Payne addressed a few words of wisdom to the Senate yesterday. He spoke in approving terms of the ability of private enterprise to deal with our unemployment difficulties, to overcome the depression and set Australia again on the road to prosperity. We on this side take an entirely different view.  Senator Payne  and his friends - members of the United Australia party and Country party - belong to the parties of conservatism and reaction. They stand " pat " for the things that are. Labour senators believe in change with a view to progress and to meet any situation as it arises. Government supporters, in their survey of the world's economic position, pin their faith to private enterprise and lose no opportunity to endeavour to persuade us that, if unhampered by governmental restrictions, private enterprise would restore prosperity in the world. 

 Senator Payne is typical of the class he represents - the reactionary element in the community. Although personally he has all the attributes of a good fellow, he has an obsession about the superlative efficiency of private enterprise. Only yesterday he deplored the decline of the natural increase of population in Australia, but failed to point to the true remedy. That is a subject in which he has always displayed great interest, and I think we all commend him for the views which he has expressed. He believes, as we do, that our circumstances necessitate an increase of population. Then the honorable senator went on to tell us about the Fairbridge Farm School in Western Australia, which cares for a few children sent out each year from the United Kingdom. That institution was commended by the honorable gentleman as one means of increasing the population. We say that such projects are all right in their way, but our complaint is that the Government does nothing to ensure for the people already here continuity of employment at reasonably good wages, thus encouraging them to establish homes and rear families.  Senator Payne,  whom I regard as one of the mental troglodytes, would say that the Government must not do any of the things which we advocate. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  P. J. Lynch). - The remark being offensive to  Senator Payne,  I ask  Senator Brown  to withdraw it. 
 I assure my friend that I did not use the word in any derogatory sense. At one time the world was peopled by cave dwellers, who were known as troglodytes; so to suggest that  Senator Payne  mentally is a troglodyte - one living in the dark ages of social progress - is surely not personally offensive. I assure him that I have no desire to hurt his feelings, and I hope that he will be satisfied with this explanation. I do not imply that there is something wrong with the honorable senator, merely because he cannot accept my view. The party I represent desires to make basic changes in the economic and social structure with a view to progress, whereas  Senator Payne  and his friends desire to maintain the  status quo. 
The budget discloses no intention on the part of the Government to make the necessary basic economic changes that are so urgently needed in the interests of our people. 
 I have, and before I resume my seat I hope to be able to convince the honorable senator and his friends that I have a complete mastery of their contents. 
I freely admit that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has had considerable experience; and on many  occasions I defer to his judgment. But may I suggest that, in the Labour movement there are also men of wide experience? Within comparatively recent times certain members of our party " ratted " from our ranks and our political opponents have welcomed them with open arms. Some have even become tory leaders. As the representatives of the workers, wo have every right to speak for Labour. Many Government supporters having been in privileged positions all their lives, definitely represent the more fortunate sections of the community, and consistently oppose any action that might jeopardize their interests. Those who .are not privileged suffer; and, consequently, they support a policy which offers them some hope of a changed economic condition. When I interjected yesterday that a reduction of the working hours would help to solve the unemployment problem,  Senator Payne  ridiculed the suggestion. It is all very well for the honorable senator to take that stand, because his future is assured; but what about the thousands of unemployed who would find a job if the working hours were reduced ? Those who- gain their livelihood by exploiting the workers will, of course, oppose anything which might reduce their income. Opinion in regard to private enterprise is different from that which obtained a few years ago. I do not belie.ve that any honorable senator really believes that private enterprise can solve the unemployment difficulty. Throughout the world there is a growing belief that government assistance must be forthcoming. 
As a result of constant agitation by the Labour party, and changed economic conditions, governments have been compelled to move forward. Recently, I received from the League of Nations a bulletin containing the annual report of  Mr. Harold  Butler, the Director of the International Labour Office, to the conference which opened at Geneva in June, 1934. After remarking that one country after another had rejected the fatalistic belief in the benevo lent operation of the economic law,  Mr. Butler  continued - 
The events of the last twelve months may be said to have set the seal upon this transformation of attitude. Instead of receding as signs of recovery have appeared, the demand for collective action and organization has, on the contrary, been reinforced. The very security of the State is now seen to depend not only upon the inviolability of its frontiers, but upon its ability to provide an orderly and sufficient existence to all classes of its citizens. As it has been aptly remarked by the well-known American publicist,  Mr. Walter  Lippman, "the task of ensuring the standard of living for its people is now as much the fundamental duty of the State as the preservation of national independence." 
This party does not object to the principle of collective action in connexion with the ItaloAbyssinian dispute. 
This party believes in collective action to the full; but it is grossly unfair that Australia should be dragged into a dispute which threatens because three other nations are economically interested. 
As a good Australian, I like to back a winner when I see it. 
The bulletin continued - 

 Mr. Butler considers that there is ground for thinking that the measure of success achieved by State intervention is justifying and strengthening the popular belief that, by bold, well-conceived steps planned on a sufficiently comprehensive scale, it is within the power of governments to influence the course of recovery to a very considerable extent. 
The Government is not taking adequate steps to deal with the situation. It believes in a policy of " Wait and see ". While it has waited, wheat and wool prices have risen, revenues have become more buoyant, unemployment has decreased a little; and now the Government says that the depression is over, the corner is turned, and all is well. It is true that the Government has tried to do something. It sent the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  the Attorney-General  (Mr. 
Menzies), the Minister directing negotiations for Trade Treaties  (Sir Henry Gullett),  and the Assistant Minister  (Mr. Thorby)  with a retinue of followers to England, Ireland, and Scotland and a number of Continental countries. The Minister directing negotiations for Trade treaties endeavoured to sell a few pounds of steak in Central Europe and to enter into a bi-lateral agreement with Czechoslovakia. The Labour party  commends every effort to increase Australia's trade with other countries ; but it knows that  bi-lateralism  will not solve the problems of 'trade or of unemployment. Some time ago an agreement was entered into with Belgium. It would be interesting to know the result of that arrangement. "We hear a good deal about the balance of trade between nations, and it is contended by some that, by adjusting the trade balance, our economic difficulties will be overcome. The High Commissioner  (Mr. Bruce),  who was formerly a member of the Commonwealth Government, had something to say on this subject recently. According to him, there is not much hope of the present difficulties being overcome by a series of bi-lateral agreements. The right honorable gentleman is reported to have said - 
Politicians can never successfully handle the question of complementary trade, which is now in the hands of the commercial leaders of the country. Complementary trade to-day bore not the slightest relationship to one of the most ghastly menaces in existence - the theory of compensation agreements which was rife throughout the world, which was based on the new and fantastic notion that exactly balanced trade between nations could be obtained. 
Some months ago, I pointed out in this chamber that trade involves dealings, not merely between this country and some other country with which we have made an agreement, but between Australia and the rest of the world, and my remarks were endorsed by the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan).  Unfortunately, there is a lot of foolish talk about our economic problems being solved by adjusting the trade balance. 
Every country in the world is obsessed with the idea that it must balance its trade with every other country. Recently,  Mr. Debuchi,  from Japan, had something to say regarding the large amount qf Japanese money spent in Australia, and the comparatively small purchases from his country by Australians. It is entirely wrong to say that the world's economic problems will be solved by a series of bilateral agreements. Monsieur E. Fougere,  president of the French National Association for Economic Expansion, is reported to have said - 
Bilateralism shows itself in an effort to obtain strict reciprocity in the trade between two countries. The general balance of trade with other countries is left out of the picture, and only bilateral trade balance between the two countries is considered. 
The economist, J. B. Say, considered that a favorable trade balance was often an indication of national poverty and that a prosperous country generally had an unfavorable trade balance, because it used the proceeds of its work to increase its comfort and wealth by purchase from abroad. To imagine that one can regulate the balance of payments by a series of bilateral trade balances is idle fancy. 
We on this side of the. chamber realize that the world's market is so limited that its division among the nations, no matter on what basis, will not solve their economic problems. Consequently, we have tried to change the economic basis so that, instead of producing for a market, we shall produce for the people themselves. More and more, the world is being forced to the conclusion that private enterprise has failed, and that governments must intervene and set in motion machinery which will provide for the needs of the people. 
The Government boasts of the budget introduced a few days ago by the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  ; but already a good deal of dissatisfaction with it hasbeen expressed. Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia are rightlyattacking the Commonwealth Government because of the disabilities imposed! upon them by federation. The Government has done nothing to remove the causes of complaint. It smugly contemplates its presentsurplus, and disregards its past deficits. The dissatisfaction of. the three States I have mentioned is also shared to some extent by Queensland. 
I know that the people of Western Australia have had their minds poisoned against Queensland. A cause of dissatisfaction in Queensland with federal administration is the fact that that State has no full Minister in the Cabinet.  Mr. Hunter  is a Queenslander, but he is only an Assistant Minister.  Senator Poll  is another Queenslander, but he is only government whip. He did not even get the position of  Chairman  of Committees after so many years of faithful service to his party.  Senator Crawford  was once a Minister,  but  he has now been relegated to the rank and file of his party. It seems that good men and true, who support the Government and represent the State of Queensland, cannot get a major ministerial appointment. 
The Premier of Queensland  (Mr. Forgan Smith)  has taken the Federal Government to task for preening itself about its surpluses while the States are labouring under deficits. After the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers in 1934,  Mr. Forgan  Smith proposed that the Commonwealth Government should accept responsibility for a greater proportion of the State debts. He proposed also that the Commonwealth should shoulder the full burden of the repatriation of returned soldiers. That is essentially a Commonwealth obligation. He claimed further that the States were entitled to the whole of the proceeds of the petrol tax, pointing out that roads were built and maintained by the States. The Commonwealth is insidiously, but obviously, bleeding the States to financial death, and the Constitution should be altered to give them greater financial power and enable them to pay their way. A conference should be convened to con sider amendments of the Constitution which would have the effect of removing the States' disabilities. The Constitution should be so amended as to enable the States to achieve progress, and render it impossible for them to be bled by the Commonwealth. 
In thebudget speech the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  expressed pleasure that the Commonwealth Government, by its adherence to sound finance, had been able to provide means for the absorption of increasing numbers of the unemployed. Is there ground for satisfaction in the fact that a country so rich as to be capable of feeding all its people, has many thousands of men and women on the bread line? There is something rotten in a financial system which allows that state of affairs. 
The budget compares the situation in 1932, when the employment index showed that 30 per cent, of trade unionists were unemployed, with the position in the second quarter of this year, when the percentage of unemployed was 17.8. The comparison indicates admittedly a considerable reduction of the ranks of the workless. State unemployment figures are not mentioned in the budget, but in the second quarter of 1935 the percentage of unemployed in New South Wales was 22.7 ; in South Australia, 18.9; in Tasmania, 16.4; and in Victoria, 15. Anti-labour governments are in office in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. In the States where Labour governments are in power unemployment is considerably less. The percentage of unemployed unionists in Western Australia is 13, and in Queensland it is only 8.8. Since Labour assumed office in Tasmania unemployment has been greatly diminished in that State. When I mentioned the matter of unemployment yesterday,  Senator Payne  said that a reduction of the number of hours worked would not contribute substantially to the lowering of the unemployment figures. The Under Secretary for Employment  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  at the International Labour Conference this year announced that he favoured a reduction of working hours as a means of increasing employment.  His  statement received world-wide publicity. 
Shorter hours will provide a partial solution of that problem. The Labour party's monetary policy will do the rest. The 40-hour working week is being advocated all over the world. 
Private enterprise alone cannot solve the problem. It has been necessary for the central governments of the world to come to its rescue. The assistance given by the Commonwealth to primary producers has cost millions of pounds, and the Labour party has supported the granting of that assistance; it has even had to fight the Government, which would not agree to a paltry £50 of the bounty being reserved for each farmer's personal benefit, although the fact is well known that most of this money usually finds its way into the pockets of traders and financial institutions. The 40-hour week has been introduced in the United States  of  America, Italy and even Czechoslovakia. At Geneva,  Sir Frederick  Stewart spoke eloquently in favour of Australia following their example, but the Commonwealth Government has taken absolutely no action to that end. Its failure in thi? respect is one ground of the Opposition's criticism. 
The French Minister of Labour, speaking in the French Senate in December, 1934, said that it had been calculated that by reducing hours by only four a week, employment could be found for 500,000. more men. 
Yes, but with the assistance of the central government. The interests of individual firms are opposed to those of the people; they cannot be reconciled. Private employers may be the most humane of men, but they are affected by their economic circumstances, which prevent them from solving the unemployment problem on their own initiative. They must have the help of governments. Everywhere there is increasing recognition of the necessity for higher wages to increase purchasing power. The party of which 
I am a member has been accused of unorthodox methods, but, states the International Labour Office, governments which have adopted such methods have obtained better results than have those which have relied on the traditional process of deflation, and the official booklet of the League of Nations contains the following comments on the unemployment problems of the world: - 
It is noticeable, and probably not without significance, that in Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Italy and Poland, where wages are declining, little or no reduction of unemployment has occurred. 
The importance of the home market cannot be over-stated. The great bulk of national production must be bought by the people of the country, the great majority of whom are wage and salary earners. Concentration on promotion of exports is a short-sighted policy. It is of little avail to be able to compete successfully upon the world market, if the purchasing power of the various countries remains low, and if these countries are surrounding themselves with impassable trade barriers. 
Those statements support the views held by the Labour party. 
There is a big difference between the political opinions held by supporters of the Government and those of honorable senators on this side of the chamber. Honorable senators of the party to which I belong stand for progress, but other honorable senators represent a policy of stagnation. 
That is not a true guide. Rather is it an indication of how people can be misled at elections. As a result of political lying the electors voted against the Labour party, which they would not have done had the truth been laid before them. 
I must ask the honorable senator to moderate his language. 
The common practice of referring to the ever-increasing interest hill on our national debt makes it necessary to invite attention to the facts. In 1921-22, the aggregate interest bill on Commonwealth and State public debts represented £7 9s. 4d. a head of the population. For 1935-36, the corresponding figure is £7 8s.1d. These figures include all long-term and short-term debt and all exchange charges. 
That statement makes a particularly interesting study. The Assistant Treasurer informs us that the debt per head of the population is decreasing. As a matter of fact, it is a few shillings less. The Commonwealth Statistician,  Mr. McPhee,  has compiled figures showing that within the last five years Commonwealth and State debts have increased at the rate of £27,500,000 annually. As this debt is being discharged at the rate of £7,848,000 a year, the total indebtedness is increasing by approximately £20,000,000 a year. When reference is made to Australia having turned the corner, we should ask when we shall be in a position to pay our debts. At the present rate of progress, the country is, like the Irishman, advancing backwards. The Assistant Treasurer has stated that there is a diminution in the interest bill per head of the population. Presumably, if the debt continues to increase the interest bill will decrease, and some day when the debt is big enough we shall not have to pay any interest at all! From a study of the Assistant Treassurer's figure, the only conclusion I can draw is that while the debt accumulates the interest grows less. 
Another minor improvement in the position is in connexion with the tobacco industry. After long consideration, the Government proposes to reduce excise duty on manufactured tobacco. In other words, the Government is to differentiate between home-grown tobacco and foreign tobacco and at the same time to reduce the excise duty on cigarettes. Can there be some private reason for this decision, because requests previously made for a differential excise in regard to home-grown and foreign tobacco were always refused by the Government? Now it is proposed to reduce excise on home-grown tobacco involving a loss of revenue of £90,000. This we endorse, but will the growers get the benefit? Unfortunately, hundreds of growers have been ruined. When the Scullin tariff operated,800 farmers were growing tobacco at Mareeba, but now their numbers have diminished to less than 200. Business men have also been adversely affected, one storekeeper alone having lost £70,000 as a result of the Lyons Government's interference with the Scullin tariff. The Government now proposes to extend some assistance to the tobacco-growers and reduce the excise on the Australian-grown products. The tobacco-growing industry in Mareeba attracts only one buyer, who, in the absence of competition, can fix his own price: consequently, the unfortunate growers are labouring under grave disabilities. On one visit the buyer will seek tobacco leaf of mahogany colour; the next time he will ask for a. light yellow leaf; and then for an altogether different kind. The growers do not know what is really required by the purchaser. From 22 tobacco-growers in Mareeba. I have a statement which should be interesting to honorable senators, particularly when the claim of the Lyons Government that it has restored prosperity is remembered. It shows that these farmers consigned 7,262 lb. of tobacco to the Combined Growers Tobacco Company. Valuing the tobacco at 6s. per lb. the gross return was £2,178 12s. Excise at 4s. 6d. per lb. amounted to £1,633 19s.; manufacturers' cost at 9d. per lb., £272 6s. 6d.; selling costs at 6d. per lb., £181 lis.; half of the proceeds deducted, £44 lis. 2d.; freight, £24 3s. 5d.; total, £2,156 lis. Id.; balance to farmers, £22 8s. Id. One farmer sent 42 lb. of tobacco and another 120 lb. They were debited with 5s. 9d. and ls. 5d. respectively. Those men are ruined, and yet the Assistant Treasurer, refers to returning prosperity ! Have the funds of the United Australia party by any chance been augmented by a contribution from the British Australian Tobacco Company ? 
Much has been said about the need for the defence of Australia. On Tuesday  Senator A.  J. Mclachlan delivered *an eloquent speech on the Italo-Abyssinian dispute, in the course of which he shed what my leader described as "glycerine tears," and on Monday the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  made a dramatic appeal for assistance for the Mother Country. We on this side can also be dramatic, but our appeal is to the people to stand by their own country. 
Brisbane he remarked to a friend, " This is the first time I have been in a foreign country." Many people living in distant States look upon North Queensland as a foreign land, and judging by its attitude this Government is indifferent to the conditions of the people in the far north of that State. It is prepared to strain every nerve to fight on behalf of Abyssinia -which is peopled by a race belonging mentally and morally to the dark ages, but it does not seem to be so much concerned about fighting for Australia. We on this side put in a plea that Australians should not die for some foreign country, but should live for their own. Accordingly, we say that this Government might with advantage make some provision to assist the people who are doing so much to develop the northern part of Queensland. Why not help them ? We have appealed to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  for assistance for Cooktown, the most northern town in Australia. Many years ago it was a thriving goldmining town, but to-day it is in a dilapidated state. A considerable number of good Australian citizens who are still living there are appealing to this Government for assistance to enable them to carry on, so that they may play their part in protecting the northern shores of Australia. As one of the outposts of the Commonwealth, Cooktown should not bo neglected. Apparently government supporters are not interested in my appeal on behalf of Australian citizens, although a day or two ago they gave close attention to the Leader of the Senate when he was appealing for the support of citizens of a foreign country who, we read, on their feast days are accustomed to drinking the blood and eating the flesh of living animals.  Senator Payne  knows the north, and he will, I am sure, appreciate the force of my appeal on behalf of the people of Cooktown. Recently, the Government voted £500 for the establishment of an aerodrome there. This was expended in the construction of a runway, and a request has now been made for a further £1,000 to complete the work. Surely it should be possible for the Government to provide this small sum from the magnificent budget which the 
Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  presented on Monday. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Allan  MacDonald) adjourned. 

 [4.48]. - I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
It is a painful duty to be obliged to submit this bill. As honorable senators are aware, the late  Senator Sir Walter  Kingsmill had a long public and parliamentary life, extending over 38 years, partly in the Parliament of Western Australia and partly in this chamber, of which, for some time, he was  President.  I regret to inform the Senate that his widow is in ill-health, and is practically without means. All honorable senators will regret that this should be so. One cannot go into the causes. The Government has made inquiries, and has ascertained that the position is as I have stated. It felt that, in view of the long public and parliamentary career of the late honorable senator, the country would not object to provision being made for his widow, who is unable to provide for herself. The circumstances in which she finds herself are no fault of hers. I feel sure that, in view of what I have said, the bill will, in this chamber, receive the same sympathetic consideration as was given to it in the House of Representatives. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
While I was speaking on the budget this afternoon the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  referred to my practice of reading extracts from newspapers to buttress my arguments. I have another to which I now direct his attention. This statement appeared in the Brisbane  Courier  of the 21st September, under the headings, " Glorified letter box," " New post office wanted in Valley":- 
The cost to the company was nearly £1,000 a year for handling postal matter from the store to the General Post Office, when we have a glorified letter box, or so called post office in the Valley, which could not, or would not, handle our business, said  Mr. 0.  J. Lansdowne addressing the annual meeting of shareholders of McWhirters, Limited. The company was not alone in having to bear this unnecessary expense, continued  Mr. Lansdowne,  who said that if the postal authorities would either bring the office up to a state of efficiency, or,' better still, build a new post office that could cope with the business in the Valley, particularly in regard to the great volume of parcels post business of the Valley merchants, this expenditure pf time and money could be greatly reduced. 
I ask the Postmaster-General to give his attention to this matter; the post office at. the Valley is a disgrace to his department. 
The trade agreement with Belgium will expire shortly, and I should like to know whether further arrangements are likely to be made with that country in the near future in regard to the export of barley from Australia. 
;  -I have to announce that at a meeting of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party, 'held on Thursday last, the 19th September,  Senator Gordon  Brown was appointed  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and  Senator J.  V. MacDonald was elected Opposition Whip in the Senate. 
I desire to be excused from attendance on the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, and suggest that  Senator Cooper  be appointed in my place. I have consulted with the honorablo senator and he is agreeable to act on that committee, if appointed. 
[4.58]. - In reply to  Senator Badman,  I oan only say that negotiations are still proceeding with the Government of Belgium in relation to the continuance of the trade agreement with that country. The Government is doing all that it can to protect, in the Belgian market, the interests of Australian growers of barley. 
As to the appointments announced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  at this stage I shall only say that I hope that, in carrying out his duties as Opposition Whip,  Senator J.  V. MacDonald will act in a respectful manner, otherwise the Leader or the  Deputy  Leader of the party may deal severely with him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at  4.5D p.m. 
I have to inform the Senate that, pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution, I notified the Governor of the State of New South Wales of the vacancy caused in the representation of that State by the death of  Senator Lionel  Thomas Courtenay, and that I have received through  His Excellency  the Governor-General, from the Governor of New South Wales, a certificate of the appointment of James Guy Dalley Arkins as a senator to fill such vacancy. 
Certificate laid on the table, and read by the Acting Clerk. 
I have not seen the statement referred to, hut the Government is in possession of information relating to the production of synthetic petrol, and it is of such a nature as to render unnecessary further inquiries. However, in view of what the honorable senator has said, I shall refer his question to the Commonwealth Fuel AdvisoryBoard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Does the Government intend to make any alteration in the method of censorship as at present operating in Australia? 
If so, what alterations are contemplated? 
Will the Government at least agree, and without delay, to permit hooks that arc allowed to be circulated throughout Great Britain to enter Australia? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer :  - 1, 2, and 3. It is not the practice to disclose Government policy in answer to questions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What was the amount of subsidy set aside for the encouragement of gliding clubs? 
Has this money been allocated? 
If not, what are the reasons for its nondistribution ? 

 Senator Sir GEOEGE PEAECE.The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers :  - 
£600. 

 2 and 3. A portion only of the total amount available for allocation to gliding bodies has been distributed so far. Up to the present only two gliding clubs - The West Australian Flying Club and the Queensland Gliding Association - have compliedwith the conditions governing the grant, the primary requirement being that eachclub or association must be a responsible and properly registered and incorporated body. A third body - the Australian Gliding Club (Victorian Section) - is in process of formation. The existing properlyformed bodies have been fully remunerated in accordance with the extent of their operations, as provided in their agreements with the Commonwealth. 
[3.12]. - In moving - 
That the bill be now read a first time. 
I point out to honorable senators who are not yet accustomed to the procedure adopted in this chamber on a Supply Bill that in the House ofRepresentatives and in the Houses of Assembly in the State legislatures, provision is made at least once a fortnight for what is known as " grievance " day, on which members can bring under the notice of the Government any matters affecting the administration of departments or their constituencies. In this Senate there is no such provision to allow honorable senators to ventilate their grievances. In the early days of federation the procedure was laid down by the then  President (Sir Richard Chaffey Baker)  whereby honorable senators could, on the first reading of a Supply Bill, discuss any matter of administration or affecting their constituencies. This gave to' honorable senators a periodical opportunity to ventilate matters that could not be debated on the second reading or in the committee stage, when debate must be relevant to the subject-matter of the bill. That is a very valuable privilege, and one of which honorable senators should avail themselves. This procedure is now embodied in our Standing Orders. 
It will probably be urged against honorable senators who sit in opposition in this chamber that we discuss the subject of old-age and invalid pensioners at every opportunity. Considering the class from which we on this side come, and our knowledge of the hardships and tragedies of old-age and invalidity, honorable senators need feel no surprise at our persistence. Sometimes it is of value to survey the events of the past in order to learn exactly where we stand to-day in relation to pensions and other matters, and from this survey ascertain whether the path we are now following is really the most practicable and worth-while. I have often heard it argued that the Labour party is not responsible for the granting of pensions in Australia. I have a shrewd suspicion that when the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  replies in his customary able and eloquent manner to the points in my speech which he considers vulnerable, he will inform the chamber that the Labour party did not originally bestow the pension. A survey of the facts will show that the Labour party was at one time the third party. It was too weak numerically to occupy the treasury bench, but it was able to make or unmake ministries, for the other two parties were not sufficiently powerful to take office without the support of the Labour party. This occurred more than once in Australian parliamentary history. Labour could offer power to whichever party it preferred, and naturally it supported the party which would give most concessions to the Labour policy. In this fashion some of the planks of the Labour party became realities. 
In 1890 the desirability of instituting an invalid and old-age pension was being widely discussed. The spiritual ancestors of the United Australia party were averse to the proposal. Those " unfriendly friends " of the aged and invalid declared that the pensions would discourage thrift and would weaken the moral fibre of the recipients. I cannot refrain from mentioning that even in those remote days that time-worn expression was used as an argument against the granting of the pension and all other reforms designed to benefit the people whom I represent in this chamber. The two non-Labour parties merely toyed with the proposal, which was really anathema to them. The issue was avoided until the Labour party made the pension a plank of its platform. This party supported the governments which promised to grant the pension, and, what is more important, forced Ministries to live up to their promises. In September, 1S99,  Sir William  Lyne supplanted  Sir George  Reid as Premier of New South Wales.  Sir William  Lyne promised to grant the old-age pension, and in December, 1900, he was as good as his word. The Labour party put  Sir George  Turner into office in Victoria in the place of  Mr. McLean,  and the new Premier granted the pension in 1900. Similarly, in Queensland, in November, 1908, the Labour party supported  Mr. Kidston,  who became Premier instead of  Sir Robert  Philp. Incidentally, I had a share in that political development. In July, 1908, the old-age pension was granted in Queensland. Just before that time,  Mr. Alfred  Deakin promised to establish a pension system for the Commonwealth. Consequently, the Labour party put him in office in place of  Sir George  Reid. W. G. Spence recorded on page 306 of his  Australia  s Awakening  that  Mr. Deakin  wrote a letter to the Labour party promising to introduce old-age pensions. Because of delay caused by constitutional difficulties that promise was not carried out until 1908. The States claimed that the unexpended revenue of the Commonwealth should be paid to them each month.  Mr. Deakin  ' held the opinion that their claim was valid and that the plan for the creation of a trust fund for the payment of pensions accordingly was impracticable. Legal advice to the effect that the States' claim was unsound was obtained by  Mr. Fisher,  and accepted by  Mr. Deakin,  who introduced and passed an act providing for a trust fund for the payment of old-age pensions. That act was challenged by the New South (Wales Government, but was upheld by the High Court. Thus the machinery for the payment of pensions to  the aged came into being ou the 1st July, 1909. The Fisher Government succeeded that led by  Mr. Deakin  and held office for six months in 1909. Within a short, period after assuming office  Mr. Fisher  introduced an oldage pension scheme which came into force as from the loth April, 1909. No provision was made at the time for the institution of pensions for invalids, but the second Fisher Government passed legislation for the payment of such pensions as from October, 1910. 
I am surprised that the honorable senator should drag that more-than-decayed red-herring over the track. He may be new in this chamber, but he should know that no intelligent person now takes any notice of what was forced upon the then Government in 3931 in connexion with pensions. I have related the true history of the Australian pensions system. 
A tremendous amount of timidity characterizes the Government's pensions policy. Certain sections of the community will benefit from the current budget by receiving remissions of direct and indirect taxation. I support the proposed restoration to the public servants of a proportion of the salaries taken from them by the Financial Emergency Act, and I do not complain of members of the Commonwealth Parliament sharing in the restorations. I have always insisted that members of Parliament should receive full restoration of salaries, but I am satisfied with the proposals of the Government in this respect for the time being. I am, however, dissatisfied with the treatment meted out to invalid and old-age pensioners, who have been ignored in the budget. They should receive an immediate restoration of their pensions to £1 weekly. Doubtless, we shall be told that the purchasing power of the £1 is now greater than formerly. That threadbare and timeworn excuse is always used by the Government when pilloried for its unjust treatment of the aged and indigent. 
As the allowances of honorable senators are not governed by the cost of living, pensions should not be so regulated. Nobody attempts to tell us that we can buy more with our allowance than we could before it was reduced. Honorable senators opposite are not so entirely reticent and backward mentally when it concerns any other than the poorest section of the community. We are frequently asked to follow the example of Great Britain. When it is a matter of pensions for the highlypaid and wealthy individuals, the Government does follow that example. The following paragraph throws light on some of the pensions paid in Great Britain: - 
If my remarks are considered objectionable by the Leader of the Senate, I withdraw them. A statement made in 1925 by the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  stands out in contrast to that of the Leader of the Senate to which I have just referred. In his policy speech of 1925,.  Mr. Bruce,  referring to sickness; unemployment and old age, said - 
If has- to be remembered1 that, even under the conditions existing" in Australia, the wages of our workers are not sufficient to enable them to safeguard themselves against these -evils. 
That statement was made at a time when conditions in. Australia were considerably better than they are' to-day. 
When the Invalid' and Old-age Pensions Bill was under discussion in 1908,  Sir Joseph  Cook said - 
I regard old-age pensions very much in the form of a national' annuity given to men  who  are' entitled to demand it as' a right; and' not as air act- of- mercy, or charity. That is the only real basis on which, the system can rest. 
Ever since it has' been in power the present Government, both directly and'  indirectly,  has reduced* pensions. I- admit that; at one' stage- a restoration' was made to the pensioners; but they are still not in receipt of the full pension. I appeal to the Government' to make a pronouncement during, the present week that the pension will be restored to £1 a week; 
In his budget speech of 1932-33 the present Prime1 Minister, speaking of pensions, said - 
The country simply cannot afford this increasing charge. 
I have said sufficient to make it clear that the Opposition asks only for justice to the pensioners. I believe that every honorable senator, irrespective of party, would bte delighted to know that the Government had decided to pay a further 2s. a week to the invalid and old-age pensioners. I ask honorable senators who support the Government to urge the Prime Minister to honour his undertaking that, immediately the finances of the country warranted it, the Government would restore pensions to £1 a week. I have spoken in this strain because I believe that this is the time when every member of this chamber who takes his duty seriously should give utterance to thoughts which he may have upon these subjects, especially if he has a constructive policy to offer. No one can deny that Labour has submitted a constructive policy with regard to the restoration of pensions. The Government has enjoyed surpluses in its" finances' for some years, and therefore it is in a position to do this act of justice to pensioners. Ministers are now in a position to retrieve their political characters. A definite promise was given that full pensions would be restored immediately' the condition of our finances warranted such a course. 
During, the last few months there has been a considerable amount of kite-flying in- connexion with migration. One can hardly take up any. considerable newspaper in' the Commonwealth without reading therein statements by citizens more or less worthy, urging a- resumption of migration. In my own State we have had pronouncements from Archbishop Wand and Canon Garland, as well as from other Church dignitaries and industrial and commercial magnates; All these people warn, us that unless we take early: steps to add te our present population of 6,7-50,000 people,, our White Australia, policy will be endangered; because; SO-  they  tell' us/ the teeming populations of other countries' are1 looking to Australians- open,  spaces  with envious eyes. I entirely.  agree  that' 
Australia requires a much larger population if it is to fulfil its destiny, but the political party or the individual who is sufficiently callous to suggest that one human being should be brought to Australia from overseas and be expected to depend for his livelihood on the labour of his two hands before every person in Australia is in decent employment, will be guilty of an act of treachery to *he citizens of this country. I admit the need for a larger population, but I repeat that the Government's first duty is to frame a policy that will ensure employment for those 350,000 Australian adults who are now compulsorily idle. If this he done there need be no trouble about schemes to attract additional population. But before this end can be attained, honorable senators now- supporting the Government will have to join the ranks of the Labour party, which alone among the parties in this Parliament has put forward a financial policy to make this desirable condition possible. A few days ago, when I mentioned that, in Canberra alone, between 700 and 800 adult persons were unemployed, and when I offered suggestions for their relief, one honorable senator supporting the Government asked how their employment would affect the general situation. Honorable gentlemen who were then present know wl) at was my reply to that question. The decline of the Australian birthrate is not to be wondered at in view of the fact that 12.4 per cent, of the breadwinners in this country have no income at all ; 27.7 per cent, have an income of less than £1 a week; 18.1 per cent, receive between £1 and £2 a week; 12 per cent, between £2 and £3 a week; 9.7 per cent, between £3 and £4 a week; 7.6 per cent between £4 and £5 a week, and only 10.5 per cent have incomes exceeding £5 a week. If government supporters are satisfied with those figures, I am not, and while I have health and strength I shall, inside and outside of Parliament, raise my voice in protest against any act of government policy which is likely to continue this deplorable state of affairs. 
They are to be found in the latest census returns. 

 - Senator Hardy will have an opportunity, when he addresses the chamber, to tell us to what extent the position has improved since the census was taken; but the difference, I venture to suggest, is the difference between tweedle-dum and tweedle-dee, and hardly worth mentioning. My point is that if we provide employment for our people, we shall increase their spending power and the birth-rate in this country will quickly rise. 
Shortly after his return from Great Britain, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  in a speech at Brisbane, reported in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  of the 16th August, stated that he had discussed the subject of migration with British Ministers, and although no definite conclusion had been reached, he hoped that it might not be long before Australia reached the stage in ite recovery when the resumption of migration . would be possible. 
Yes, but during my service of four and a half years in this chamber, I have learned that frequently the Prime Minister, in some obscure corner of a State, makes an announcement of policy, which is then discussed in the press, but members of this Parliament know nothing about a particular proposal until the nefarious work has been done. This discussion about migration would not have been so general in recent months if there was not a desire, on the part of those who have taken part in it, to bring more people to Australia to compete in the labour market with those already here. I had intended, if time permitted, to direct attention to some harrowing details of housing conditions  in  this country which have been disclosed within the last few days in Nationalist newspapers. 
Those which do not support the Labour party but do support the honorable senator and  his  friends. The  Sydney Morning Herald,  a few days ago, published statements which revealed an appalling condition in certain parts of Sydney where, it was alleged, as many as thirteen people were living in one room. The Prime Minister in his statement on migration, said - 
It is necessary  to  encourage  schemes to this  end, and I am  hopeful  the  stage will be  reached soon' when migration may  be  resumed. 
No. I said that it would be an act of treachery to the citizens of Australia if any proposal to bring to Australia additional migrants were launched before employment was found for all Australian men willing and anxious to work. When we have done that there will be no dearth of migrants. Indeed, to stem the tide, the Government will then have to station its representatives in all British speaking countries with surplus populations in order to ensure that only those who are physically and otherwise fitted to become citizens of Australia, are allowed to come to this country. Under the migration scheme launched by an earlier Nationalist government, many who came to Australia were subsequently committed to mental asylums, and some of them are still there. But I desire to do justice to the Prime Minister. He said - 
The adoption of a new migratory plan will not be possible until Australians themselves ire  enjoying  completely stable economic conditions. 
I would accept that statement at its face value if I did not know just how much it is worth. There is no indication in the budget speech, or in the Supply Bill, of any proposed steps by the Government to bring about stable economic conditions. What proof have we that those who oppose the Labour party know the basic causes of unemployment, let alone how to remedy it? When some of us are offering constructive proposals for the regeneration of society honorable senators opposite either leave the chamber or sit with a look on their faces which indicates that they do not understand the case pre sented by the Opposition. Where are the proposals of the Government that will make for stable economic conditions? They are not to be found in any bill before the chamber. We on this side are impressed more by what the bills do not contain than by what is to be found in them. The Overseas Settlement Committee of the Dominions Office, commenting on the Prime Minister's statement, intimated that within six months of Australia announcing its willingness to accept migrants the British Government would be ready to despatch the first migrant ship. A few years ago a delegation representing the Empire Parliamentary Association came to Australia, and when its members visited Queensland, the then State Premier,  Mr. McCormack,  presented Australia's case in regard to migration. After the subject had been discussed, that talented and cultured gentleman, Lord Salisbury, summed up the situation in words to this effect - 
Gentlemen, you ask me to ric) the impossible. You tell nic you want agricultural labourers, but J. point out that we have not one to spare in  Great  Britain. You tell me you want artisans to develop your industries, but I am bound to inform you that we need every one of them. You tell me you do not want the sweepings of our industrial hells, but that is all we have to offer you, because we require all the others to develop the Motherland. We learned during the war that Britain must make itself as self-contained as possible, so that it will be more independent than in the past of outside sources of food supply in times of national emergency. 
Only in one way can migra tion be placed on a satisfactory basis. Australia must first put its own people back into employment. Then let Great Britain transfer manufacturing industries to this country, and send its own artisans with them, to help us in our work of development in this greater Britain in the southern seas. Such a policy would help the Old Country to rid itself of its load of misery. 
The new British High Commissioner in Australia,  Sir Geoffrey  Whiskard, interviewed on his appointment, expressed hope of an early revival of immigration on a substantial scale. The Premier of South Australia  (Mr. Butler),  on his return from England, also stated that it was time immigration was resumed. I contend that the first thing to consider is the fate of the 350,000 jobless men in Australia. The United 
Australia party of Victoria carried a motion., recently advocating " a. regular flow of immigrants ". A number of honorable senators opposite have to take their instructions from the United Australia party of Victoria, by whose grace,, with the- aid of a few electors, they were returned to this chamber. The London  Morning Post,  referring to the attitude of the Prime Minister of New Zealand, remarked - 
It is reasonable to suggest that an empty dominion ought to be reviewing its economic structure, and endeavouring to discover what the new migrants may produce. 
The fact is that with the exception of wool there is over-production of all primary products in the Commonwealth, yet in a short time quotas will be fixed to restrict our exports. In the past we have received migrants at the rate of approximately 40,000 a- year from Great Britain. We have borrowed millions from the Old Country, and this money has been invested in Australia, but what do we find? I should like to put the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  into the witness box. In an address at Chatham House,, on the 9th April last, he said - 
Can you wonder that the average citizen in Australia is rather inclined to-day to raise his eyebrows and to say, " This is very curious. All this money has come in. The work is done and the tree is about to bear fruit, and we are told that we must let the fruit fall to the ground." 

 Mr. Menzies is the young man who is marked, out to be Prime Minister as soon as the United Australia party decides that it has finished with the Bight Honorable J. A. Lyons. 
No doubt we shall have a statement from the Government in a day or two about, the meat and other quotas, and about trade agreements with other countries. We are producing goods- now for which we cannot find a market, either' in Australia or overseas, yet there is talk about migration.! The London; newspaper to which I have referred also declared that migration' is an "Imperial, necessity," but so is the sale of our primary products-overseas. Britain wishes to send us migrants, but it does not desire to he bothered about our products; although it must' realize- that- our, financial, stability, rests on securing, markets for our goods: 
I have pu-t two constructive proposals before the Government this afternoon. No  doubt  honorable, senators opposite are as anxious- as. I am to eradicate unemployment and restore fully the invalid- and old-age pensions,, but good intentions are not sufficient ;. concrete action is required. This involves a definite constructive plan, yet the present Government is bankrupt- of any proposal that could be regarded as even leading in. that direction. 
In  the distillation of oil' from coal and shale much success has been achieved in other countries-. If this industry were developed, in Australia- on a large- scale employment could be provided for hundreds of men for whom there is no chance of re-employment under present conditions. In New South Wales are to be found thousands- of coal-miners who will never again be able to- get a job at coalmining in that or any- other State- unless new uses are found for coal and its' by-products. A large percentage of the shipping to-day consists of vessels burning- fuel oil. Speaking on the budget recently I mentioned the fact that tar, a by-product of coal, is suitable for road making, but the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J'.  McLachlan)  remarked that it is of no- use for that purpose. Next day, however,, in 

 Hi report published; in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the annual meeting of the Australian! Gaslight Company, it. was stated: that the company w.as producing from, coal thousands of  gallons  of tar which was being: used for road-making purposes. It is certainly so used in Queensland. I propose to show that the Government' should give this matter its immediate and earnest consideration. I have been a member of this chamber for four years, and I recall that in season and out of season ex-Senator- Dunn urged- the adoption- of the hydrogenation process for the extraction of oil from coal, but' no satisfactory undertaking has been obtained from the Government. In his policy speech in 19341 the Prime Minister, emphasizing that the- Commonwealth Government had in the national interest decided to' take a larger share of' the responsibility of finding work for the unemployed, said - 
The problem of absorbing the- workless miners on the Australian  coal  fields- is great, and. if the extraction of oil from coal by the hydrogenation, or any other process, can be demonstrated to be profitable, the Government will have no hesitation in providing assistance for the establishment of the industry. 
Only the other day a demonstration of the process of extracting oil from coal was held in New South Wales at which a Commonwealth representative was present. 
Yes. The representative of the Commonwealth said that the demonstration which was completely successful had disclosed an inexpensive method of extracting oil from coal by that process. According to the  Courier Mail  of the 16th May of this year  Sir Frederick  Stewart, speaking in London, said that the Government now placed employment in the foreground of its programme. He went on to say - 
I am specially reporting on the impressive progress that has been made in the extraction of oil from coal which the Commonwealth regards as most important in view of the unemployed in the coal areas. 
I need not stress the fact that in the matter of transport in Australia oil is a necessity. The Royal Australian Navy uses approximately 19,000 tons of fuel oil per annum. It is interesting to note that the importations of petroleum in 1928- 29 totalled 304,000,000 gallons, valued at £7,675,000, and in 1933-34, 266,000,000 gallons, valued at £3,340,000. In 1928-29, 805,000 gallons of residual and solar oil valued at £18,000 was imported and in 1933-34 the importations of these products totalled 72,714,000 gallons, valued at £411,000. According to a statement which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 2nd August last the Minister in charge of Development  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  said - 
It would be folly for the Government to embark upon a huge expenditure here of perhaps £10,000,000 until the process had been thoroughly tried. It would be at least eighteen months before the efficacy of the process as applied to raw coal could . be determined at Billingliam-on-Tees. 
It was stated in reply to- a question in the House of Lords that Great Britain is taking determined steps to utilize all its resources for the production of oil fuel. The entire dependence of the British Navy upon liquid fuel, and the tendency to substitute oil for coal in mercantile vessels makes the- demand for oil enormous. For economic reasons Great Bri tain has been compelled to discover a means of extracting oil from coal and shale on a commercial basis. Instead of making presents to the wealthy section of the community by remissions of land and income taxes the Government should give immediate consideration to the possibility of producing oil from coal. In one year the Government remitted £5,000,000 of taxes. That remission is a continuing one, and in a subsequent year an additional £1,000,000 was remitted. I think that I would be safe in saying that during the last few years the Government has made a present of at least £50,000,000 to wealthy interests. 
I shall have something to say on that subject later. The extraction, of oil from coal is a highly technical subject, and I have before me statements by various authorities, some of which have already been published in.  Hansard,  showing definitely what can be produced from coal under the low carbonization as well as the hydrogenation process. The by-products include coke and creosote oil for preserving timber. 
Yes, but there are others. 
If the speech I am attempting to make, discloses anything at all it is that private enterprise has proved a ghastly failure. The records of human emancipation and progress are marked right down through the ages by the terrible failures of private enterprise. That system is responsible for the fact that ten persons are compelled to live in one room in Redfern, Sydney, and for -the thousands of suicides which occur every year on account of poverty. 
I am an old' man, but I have heard similar references to private enterprise ever since I was a boy. My father and I knew what poverty-  meant.  Senator Foll,  who has been to Great Britain on more than one occasion, knows of the terrible poverty which exists there, but we have in Australia, slums whose horrors cannot be equalled in any part of the world. When I was a lad my father was attempting to bring people to a recognition of the fact that a social system better than that under which they worked was possible. I am doing the same to-day, but I am told as my father was told, that we  muSt  not have governmental control; that we should leave everything to private enterprise to that end and must make further remissions of taxes to the wealthy. These same timeworn arguments were employed threequarters of a century ago when Lord Shaftesbury was forcing his reform bill through the British House of Commons. Some of the people who to-day are opposing social and economic reform are the lineal descendants of those who for centuries have opposed everything that would mean a benefit to the masses, to the detriment of the exclusive class. That is the reason for the looks of indignation and puerile interjections from honorable senators opposite. They are all for the purpose of minimizing the facts which I am placing before the Senate. If it is suggested by honorable senators opposite that we should leave the extraction of oil from coal to private enterprise I remind them that I have a fund of information at my disposal which I should like to place before them, and which the Minister in charge of development should study carefully. It has been demonstrated that oil can be extracted from coal, and that various by-products also can be obtained ; but are we go'ng to wait indefinitely? There is no reason why the Government should wait for private enterprise to undertake thi." work. Eventually the Government will make some arrangement with private enterprise, as in the case of the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, and enable outside interests to get a "rake off ". How is it that the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, in which the Commonwealth has a controlling interest, is showing a loss while private oil companies are amassing immense profits and dodging the tax gatherer by concealing their profits? The Government will probably subsidize private enterprise to carry out the work of extracting oil from coal, and when the process has proved successful a private concern will get away with the " swag." In all seriousness I protest against the inactivity of the Government in this direction. 
The Government should restore the invalid and old-age pensions to £1 a week, and make up its mind not to admit a single migrant into Australia until all our people are fully and gainfully employed. If it vill cease making contributions to wealthy city magnates, it will be able to finance a scheme for the production of oil from coal by .the hydrogenation or some other suitable process. 
Does  Senator Hardy  suggest that he cannot do anything in any direction until he is chock full of technical information on the subject? If that is so, he will never do anything. 
The company to which I referred at that time is now manufacturing refrigerating machines which cannot be beaten by Yankee or other manufacturers.  Senator Hardy  and some of the other honorable senators opposite have been in cold storage so long that they cannot thaw even under my remarks. 
A few moments ago the Leader of the Senate pertinently interjected that State enterprises in Queensland had not proved a glowing success. There is a popular misconception concerning Queensland's State enterprises. On this subject I am not without details. Despite the remarks bandied across the chamber, I say quite definitely that no State enterprise in Queensland failed. In the first place, a Queensland Labour government established a State Insurance Office and a succeeding anti-Labour government did not abolish it. The Labour Government also established a Public Curators Office, which is still in operation. According to the ordinary methods of accountancy some State enterprises did not show a profit. 
Let me tell the Leader of the Senate, who is engaged in conversation with the Postmas ter-Gener al- 
When this Government, assisted by a State Government hostile to the Labour movement, was endeavouring to ruin one man, I had a question regarding Mungana asked in the Queensland Parliament. Honorable senators will recall that the charge made against the individual whom the Government was endeavouring to ruin was that he fraudulently sold, a mine to the Government of Queensland for £40,000. The Mungana mine supplied flux, which was essential to the operation of the Chillagoe smelting works. The question asked in the State Parliament was : " What is the value of the product taken out of the Mungana mine since the Government purchased it for £40,000?" The answer supplied by the Mines Department showed that that mine had produced flux to the value of £400,000. Yet some gentlemen are so devoid of honour that, in order to blacken the reputation of one man, they continue to repeat the catch-cry : " What about Mungana ?" 
The then Premier of Queensland,  Mr. T.  J. Ryan, considered that the people were being exploited by the meat producers. On learning from the Price-fixing Commissioner the prices charged for meat, he decided to establish State cattle stations and butchers' shops with the object of reducing prices by one-half. He achieved his objective; meat prices have not since returned to their former high levels. 
Large sums of money remained in the pockets of the people because they were able to obtain cheaper meat. I admit now that a better means could have been found to reduce the price of meat; it is easy to be wise after the event. 
No government has the right to make a profit on any of its undertakings. That a State trading concern shows a profit indicates either that its employees are being paid less than they should receive or that the consuming public is being overcharged. 
SenatorFoll.  -  Is the Queensland Government wrong in making a profit in connexion with its insurance business? 
Any surplus is either returned to Consolidated Revenue or is used to decrease premiums or to give greater benefits. The Queensland State Insurance Office is unique among insurance offices in the generous treatment of its clients. A private company undertaking the same class of work has not only a profit and loss account, but also a capital account ; but government accountancy methods are different. The AuditorGeneral of Queensland insists that State undertakings shall be debited with the capital cost from their inception. 
I have touched on a good many subjects, and I hope that the mental receptivity of honorable senators opposite has been sufficient for them to take in what I have said. 
I shall conclude by telling the right honorable senator the story of a candidate for political honours who, after referring to the many hardships inflicted on his hearers, said: "Are you going to take all this lying down?" From the back of the hall a voice answered : " No ! Reporters are doing that ". 
It is gratifying to find that the Government, has made provision for a greater degree of self-containment and self-reliance in defence than formerly. The additional sum provided on the Estimates for that purpose will, doubtless, readily be agreed to by honorable senators on both sides of the chamber, since it is for the defence of Australia and will give employment to a considerable number of men. As the British Government accepts the responsibility for the major portion of the financial burden associated with . what is frequently termed imperial defence, it naturally expects complete control ; and  consequently its policy does not necessarily meet each dominion's local requirements. Like -the other dominions, Australia is a member of the League of Nations, and has the right to raise and maintain in peace time a force sufficient for defence requirements, but not for purposes of aggression. The strength of that force is a matter for Australia itself to determine, having due regard to the country's financial resources. It is neither wise nor necessary to refer to the part which the three services would be called upon to play in defending Australia against an aggressor. The British Government exercises no control whatever over Australia's defence. It could, if asked, offer the Commonwealth its advice; but Australia would not be obliged to follow it. The Commonwealth Government has the benefit of the advice of the Council of Defence, composed of experts, all of them Australia-minded, and its defence policy is the outcome of their recommendations. In my opinion, the Opposition should be represented on that body, because the defence policy of the country should be above party politics, and should not be affected by changes of Government. I do not know the Opposition's defence policy, but I am acquainted -with many trade unionists whose views on defence are identical with my own. There is a tendency to decry defence, and to begrudge every pound expended in ensuring national safety. There are many who believe that either Great Britain or the League of 'Nations would intervene if Australia were attacked; but surely it is selfish to want all and to give nothing. 
Australia almost demands that other countries shall buy its surplus products; yet its tariff policy amounts almost to the prohibition of imports. We adhere to the White Australia policy and to our rigid immigration laws; and a large number of the people are unwilling to take the steps necessary to maintain those principles. Another school of thought believes that Australia should trust in the British Navy's strong right arm; but that bulwark of defence is no longer available to us. But even if the British Navy were as strong to-day as it was 20 years ago, there would be no guarantee that it would be conveniently placed if trouble occurred on this side of the world, 12,000' miles away from the heart of the Empire. Every true patriot and virile Australian should be grateful that the Government is placing the defence of the nation on a sound and self-contained basis. 
I strongly urge that the instructions to reduce the issue of free ammunition to efficient members of rifle clubs from 200 rounds to 100 rounds a year should be withdrawn. If not, the rifle club movement will receive a serious setback. Omitting the members of regimental rifle clubs there were 37,769 effective members of reserve or civilian rifle clubs last year. Of that number, approximately 25,000 are members of clubs in country centres where it is too expensive to raise and train militia units. Eighty-two per cent, of those potential infantrymen and  lighthorsemen  are between the ages of 16 and 45 years. The remainder are much older men - foundation members who keep the clubs together. They can still shoot straight, and they make excellent coaches for the younger men. I contend that it is far better for young fellows to employ their Saturday afternoons in a national pastime such as rifle shooting, than to stand about hotels awaiting the receipt of racing information, and spending their money on alcoholic liquors. If something be not done very soon to rescind the instruction with reference to the free issue of ammunition for rifle clubs, I fear that the effects will be so serious as to lead to the eventual disbandment of some clubs. It has been hinted that the Mark VI. ammunition could be issued in lieu of the Mark VII.; but Mark VI. ammunition is obsolete, and about 95 per cent, of the riflemen of Australia have had their rifles adjusted to take Mark VII. ammunition. This was done at the direction of the military authorities. As no Mark VT. ammunition has been manufactured since the war, the remaining stocks are over 15 years old and are due for re-examination and, possibly, breaking down for scrap. It has been officially stated that it -would cost £36,000 to issue 200 rounds of free ammunition to each rifleman in Australia. I have checked the figures, and I consider that the cost would be £25,000, one half of which would be represented in wages. Therefore the granting of the request would  provide worthwhile employment to a considerable number of men. The rifle club movement is a purely voluntary one - as is our defence system - and1 it should not be discouraged. I hope that the Minister for Defence will give further consideration to the proposal and that the Government will be able to find the money to keep these clubs going and, at the same time, continue in employment many men working in the small arms factories. 
I am glad to know that the Government intends to introduce legislation to meet the claims of disabled former members of the Australian Imperial Force who are not covered by the existing- provisions of the Repatriation Act. In this connexion I pay a high tribute to  Colonel Semmens,  the  chairman  of the Repatriation Commission, who, for the last 15 years, has discharged the difficult duties of his office with a great deal of tact. He has, I think, held the scales evenly between the taxpayers- and the pensioners. I hope that the Government will appoint as his successor a man with a flexible mind and a large fund of human sympathy, for those are the requisite qualities for the proper discharge of these important duties. ' 
I understand that negotiations are in progress for a trade agreement with the New Zealand Government for the marketing of Australian citrus fruits in the sister dominion. I hope that no time will be lost in completing the details, otherwise I am afraid that Jamaica and Honduras will capture the New Zealand citrus market. I have been informed that the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  who is dealing with this matter, hopes soon to be able to make a favourable statement. In the interests of our citrus-growers I sincerely hope that the Minister's efforts will be attended with success. 
SenatorFOLL (Queensland) [4.45].  -  I offer my congratulations to  Senator Brand  for the excellence of the material contained in his maiden speech in this chamber. Those of us who have had the privilege of being associated with the honorable senator know what splendid service he has rendered to Australia, first as a brilliant soldier in the Great War, and later in the administration of the 
Defence Department. I feel sure that he will be able to give to honorable senator and Ministers valuable advice on the formulation of future defence measures. As a representative, of the. State in which  Senator Brand  was born, I am particularly pleased to welcome him as a colleague, and I feel sure that although he enters this chamber as a representative of Victoria he will deal fairly by the State which I have the honour to assist in representing. 
From what  Senator Collings  said about migration one would imagine that the Government intended to deal a deadly blow to Australia by the introduction of millions of migrants. As I read the Prime Minister's statement, all that he said was, that he hoped the day was not far distant when Australia would be in a condition  to  receive many thousands of migrants. Surely every honorable senator endorses that sentiment. We all hope that Australia soon will be so attractive that people overseas who desire to migrate will turn their eyes towards this country. Nowhere have I read a statement by the. Prime Minister or any other Minister advocating immediately the dumping into Australia of large numbers of migrants. Recently, in company with a number of other members of this Parliament, I had the privilege of visiting the Mother Country. During my stay there I studied carefully the economic condition of Great Britain, and I am firmly convinced that the employment position there is so satisfactory that comparatively few people will think of migrating to Australia in the near future. I speak with a first-hand knowledge of a considerable number of industries in nearly all the important manufacturing centres of Great Britain. I spentsome time in Birmingham, Manchester, and various centres in Yorkshire, and was impressed by the evidence of prosperity on every hand. 
Coal-mining and ship-building are differently placed. Ship-building is in a very serious plight in Britain despite the moderate revival in Glasgow caused by the building there of the  Queen Mary.  The completion of that vessel will be followed by a heavy increase in the number of unemployed on  the Clyde. Australia offers no opportunities for migrants from the ranks of British coal-miners or ship-builders. 
One remark made by  Senator Collings  struck me very forcibly. The honorable senator, reading a quotation from a speech made by Lord Salisbury in Brisbane when he visited; this country as leader of the Empire parliamentary delegation, stated that Lord Salisbury had said that the type of person largely required in Australian industries was very much the same type as Britain itself needed. I did not know that  His  Lordship had made that statement, but I reached the same conclusion when, as a member of the recent Empire parliamentary delegation, I visited industrial centres in Great Britain. I was informed that it was difficult for some of the British industries to obtain skilled labour. 
While in Birmingham I asked the Lord Mayor whether there was much unemployment in that city, and was informed that there was absolutely none. The Mayor further stated that a recent census had shown that of the boys in the city who had just left school only 49 were unemployed, a very small number in a city with a population equal to that of Sydney. These facts demonstrate that in those large manufacturing centres of Great Britain there is little or no unemployment. Accompanied by other members of the Empire parliamentary delegation I visited the works of General Motors Limited at Luton, Bedfordshire, which employs 7,000 men and women, and found that labour is so scarce in that part that General Motors Limited was sending agents throughout the depressed areas in the north of England to recruit suitable men. 
The same story was told at all of these newer industrial centres in England. In Manchester, members of the parliamentary delegation found that although the cotton industry had not regained anything like the prosperity which it had once enjoyed, the intense competition from Japan had been responsible for the modernization of machinery, the adoption of improved methods, and a revival of the industry. From all that I saw and heard in Great Britain I can say that if we have the impression that millions of people in England are awaiting an opportunity to migrate to Australia we are due for disillusionment. In my opinion it will be difficult to obtain suitable immigrants from the Mother Country even when we are ready to receive them. It will be very difficult to get the right type of persons as migrants. Owing to the revival of the iron and steel, motor car, electrical and radio industries in Great Britain, practically the whole of the skilled labour has been absorbed, and Britain is faced with as serious a problem as that with which Australia has to contend, because in recent years fewer lads have learned trades. The building industry has received a phenomenal impetus. Last year 250,000 new houses were erected, and consequently workers of the classes employed in the building trade have been rapidly absorbed. 
Some honorable senators may imagine that because Great Britain has a population of 45,000,000, there is little room for agriculture, but a study of the figures shows a marked growth in primary production. The present Government has wisely adopted a scheme to assist in the building up of primary industries. Australia naturally looks to. Britain for an outlet for its products; yet we cannot blame the Old Country for endeavouring to make itself as self-contained as possible. A considerable bounty is paid annually on the production of beet sugar. It is difficult to say at the present stage whether this industry will succeed without the bounty; but, while it is paid, there will be a considerable production of this sugar. The cattle industry in Britain has assumed large dimensions, and the duty levied on beef from Argentina, Brazil and the dominions is returned to the producers, with the result that the industry has been placed on a sounder footing than formerly. The farmers are crying out for labourers, and finding it difficult to obtain them. What chance, therefore, has Australia of securing agricultural labourers from Great Britain? The millions said to be waiting to come to our shores are mythical. The number available as migrants is becoming fewer each year. That, I regard, as the most serious aspect of the migration problem. 
During the last ten or fifteen years a considerable decline has occurred in the birth-rate in Great Britain, as also in Australia and most other countries. The decline has been so rapid in Britain that to-day the population there is almost stationary, and if the decline of the birth rate continues at the same rate for another six years, Britain's population will begin to decrease. This raises two vital problems. A decline of population would prevent Britain from offering Australia as many migrants as it has in the past, and would result in decreased markets for Australian products. It is imperative, therefore, that we look to other fields than Britain for an outlet for our increased production. I believe that the market in Great Britain for Australian goods could be extended, but it would be a mistake to depend almost entirely on the United Kingdom as an outlet for our primary products, except wheat and wool. 
I welcome the decision of the Government to send a trade delegation to India. No doubt a considerable amount of trade is to be secured with that country. 
But, unfortunately, no organized attempt has yet been made to prevent that. 
Considerable quantities of jute and tea. I would give India a tariff concession on tea. The duty on all tea is 3d. a lb., and we could well offer a concession of at least half of that amount. Many people imagine that everybody in India is too poor to buy the products of Australia. Admittedly the overwhelming majority of the people are, but there is a white population of between 16,000 and 20,000, and a considerable native population which can well afford to purchase Australian goods. I was informed by the Foreign Minister of one of the chief native States that a large market awaits us if we supply the goods that India requires, present them in the way in which the people desire them to be marketed, and guarantee continuity of supply. One complaint made to me was that Australian butter is so popular in certain quarters that it is rapidly sold out, but no further supply may be received for three or four weeks. A similar complaint was raised .in Glasgow, the goods being sent through London instead of being shipped to northern ports. Often a merchant buys a quantity of Australian goods, but when his patrons are becoming accustomed to them the supply ceases, after which he has difficulty in inducing them again to purchase those goods. I believe that Australia could do a large trade with Egypt. 
The search for new markets should not injure the markets we already have. If we have lost markets we should try to remove the cause of that loss, but we should not cease our efforts to secure new trade outlets. In Cairo, I met the Trade Commissioner who was recently appointed as the representative of the Dominion of Canada. As the result of his efforts in bringing the quality of Canadian goods under the notice of the Egyptians, the imports from that dominion increased during his first year of office from £S0,000 to £250,000. 
I commend, the Government for its efforts to secure a better deal than was formerly enjoyed by the Australian meat industry. The work of the ministerial delegation to London was of great value, and it is regrettable that an attempt has been made to belittle it. The members of the delegation were the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons), Mr. Menzies. Sir Henry  Gullett and  Mr. Thorby.  The bulk of the work fell on the shoulders of  Mr. Menzies  and  Sir Henry  Gullett, who were the outstanding figures in the negotiations. When the full details of the transactions between Britain, Australia and Argentina are published, their efforts in the interest of the meat industry of Queensland and of Australia generally, will be widely appreciated. It is impossible for delegates to make an announcement concerning their work at such conferences while negotiations are still proceeding. During my recent visit to Great Britain I was convinced that many of the marketing methods of Argentina meat producers should be adopted by Australian beef producers. The Argentina producers have achieved success, not as the result of haphazard methods, but by closely studying buyers' requirements. Argentina beef is popular in Great Britain to-day because it is uniform in size and quality, and the supply is regular- 
Yes Argentina producers know that the consumers in GreatBritain require young and small beef, and not the large type. The Argentina organization in the matter of production, shipping and marketing in Great Britain is so perfect that it knows, almost to within 100 quarters, what the consumption of Great Britain will be during any particular period. It would be of great advantage to those engaged in the production of meat in Australia to send representatives of Australian exporters to Argentina to study the methods, which have enabled that country to secure such a large share of the British market. Although I am firmly convinced that the quota system is unsatisfactory, I believe that at present it would be very unwise for Australia to adopt an alternative. It is preferable for Australia to adhere to an adequate quota system than to rely upon tariff protection against exports from Argentina. If a levy of  1¼d.  per lb. on Argentina meat and  id.  per lb. on dominion meat, which would leave a preference of Id. per lb., were adopted, the Argentina meat producing industry, being so efficient, and so much closer to the European market, would still be able to undersell Australia in Britain. Until the Australian meatproducing industry is better organized, we should rely upon an adequate quota system rather than upon a preferential tariff rate. 
I now wish to refer to a statement made by  Senator Collings  tha.t Ministers and honorable senators on this side of the chamber generally are endeavouring to prevent the production of oil from coal or shale. During our visit to Great Britain we had the opportunity to inspect the work being carried out in the laboratories of Imperial Chemical Industries, which is one of the greatest organizations of its kind in any part of the world. This company has spent hundreds of thousands of pounds in endeavouring to develop the economical production of oil from coal or other such resources. Great Britain, like Australia, does not produce flow oil, and has to import all its requirements. We all know how essential it is that we should be able to produce oil from coal, and it is unreasonable to suggest that any right-minded person would for political purposes place an obstacle in the way of development in this direction. The production of oil from this source would mean more to the British Empire than perhaps to any other country. At the laboratories of Imperial Chemical Industries in South Wales, we saw a complete plant which cost £3,000,000 to erect extracting oil from coal, and we also had the opportunity to investigate carefully what was being done. I asked those engaged on the work if there was any possibility of the fuel they were producing competing successfully with flow oil, and I was informed that in Great Britain, where coal-mining costs are lower than here, there was no possibility of the manufactured fuel competing with flow oil, unless the British Government was prepared to continue thetax of Sd. a gallon on the latter,, and allow the manufacturers of oil from coal to remain on an excise free basis.  Dr. Rivett,  the Chief Executive Officer of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, who attended a conference in Berlin five years ago, with the object of obtaining the latest information in connexion with the hydrogenation process, has for some years been making every effort to ascertain whether fuel can be produced from coal on an economic basis.. It is, therefore, unfair of  Senator Collings  to suggest that the Government has been negligent. 

 Senator Collings also raised a rather contentious subject in alleging that thereare about 350,000 persons unemployed in Australia. 
But those figures are some years old. 
Assuming that the honorable senator's figures are correct, there are certain factors to be considered. I am sure that  Senator Collings  does not support the attitude adopted by a section of those concerned in an industrial disturbance which occurred in the Queensland cane-fields. We both sympathize with the cane-growers who have had to see their cane remain uncut, because the men defied definite instructions of the officers of the Australian Workers Union, and an award of the court. The pernicious methods adopted by certain persons in Australia must be dealt with by the Government, or more serious trouble will occur. I refer to the ever-growing menace of communism. 
There was no unemployment in the area where that outbreak occurred.  Senator Collings,  who is a stalwart member of the Australian Workers Union, knows that that organization did all in its power to get the men to resume work, but the Communists prevented them from doing so. Owing to the influence of communism, work at Mount Coolon has ceased. The Registrar of the Arbitration Court in Queensland has ordered the men to return to work, pending the holding of a compulsory conference, but they are still idle. I also read yesterday that 600 to 700 men employed at the glass works, a highly protected industry, have gone on strike, thus rendering a thousand persons idle. The Government must not shut its eyes to the menace of communism which is growing. We have seen its effects in Queensland during the last few months. 
I am glad that the Government is taking a  firm  stand in this matter, because I can assure the Minister that the farmers who have been hit so hard are looking, not only to the Commonwealth Government, but also to the Government of Queensland, to assist them in their fight against communism. 
Every honorable senator, irrespective of party, would be glad to see the pension restored if it were possible to do so. lt may be that the pension will automatically reach fi a week by reason of the cost-of-living adjustments made from time to time. During my tei-m as a member of this Parliament, the annual vote for invalid and old-age pensions has increased from £3,500,000 to nearly £13,000,000, but the population has not increased proportionately. The greater prosperity of the community has not prevented that abormal growth of the vote for pensions. In my opinion, the whole system of dealing with pensions is wrong. I should like to see in operation one comprehensive national insurance scheme, to co-ordinate all relief work, and provide for all cases of invalidity and old age. Millions of pounds have been spent on useless and  non-productive  works, whereas, under a properly co-ordinated scheme, only works of a reproductive nature would have been undertaken. 
It is useless merely to put money into circulation unless it produces something worth while. 

 Senator Collings mentioned the need for a policy of slum abolition. Like him, I read with horror of the conditions under which some people live in Sydney. I agree with the honorable senator that some of the money expended on relief work of a useless character would have been better employed in getting rid of slum dwellings and providing decent homes for their occupants. When in Great Britain recently I saw, particularly at Liverpool, some of the results of the housing policy of that country. Of about 23,000 new houses contained in Liverpool's housing programme, nearly 16,000 have been completed, and are now occupied. I was impressed with the improved outlook of the former slum dwellers who now occupy these modern homes. No more wicked lie was ever uttered than that these people would be unhappy if removed from slum conditions. In their well-planned, comfortable homes, they are happy and contented; they revel in their gardens, and in every way endeavour to make their homes as attractive as possible. Improved housing conditions have developed a more self-reliant and hopeful people. 
Unfortunately, the Labour party's policy consists only of talk. These great reforms in England have been brought about by a Conservative government since the Labour government was dismissed from office. Similarly in Australia, the feet of the people again trod the road to prosperity only when Labour was turned out of office. The people of this country will, indeed, have short memories if they forget what happened during the two years in which a Labour government was entrusted with the government of this country, and the improvement which was noticeable almost as soon as a party opposed to Labour came into power. According to  Senator Collings,  anything that benefits the people is the result of the policy of the Labour party, whereas the things which injure the people are caused by the party opposed to Labour. I remind the honorable senator that the improvement of the conditions of the people is among the foremost planks of the parties supporting the Government. 
One of the reasons why there is greater prosperity in Great Britain to-day than for some years is that more workers are being absorbed by private enterprise.  Senator Collings  said that private enterprise had failed; but I ask him to reflect on the results of State enterprise in Queensland. One of the first actions of the Government led by  Mr. Forgan  Smith was the sale of the one remaining State trading enterprise - the Queensland State Saw-mills. After four years of Labour administration in that State, there has been no attempt to re-establish State fish shops or butchers' shops. No Labour man will advocate in Queensland the setting up of further State enterprises. 
The improved housing conditions of the people of England to which the honorable senator has referred are the outcome of State enterprise. 
Because the task of developing the natural resources of this country is beyond the .ability of 6,750,000 people, we should encourage British industries to undertake some of their manufacturing here, and thereby increase Australia's population. If conditions were made sufficiently attractive, there would be no need for assisted migration. The most practical way to develop Australia is to remove the harassing restrictions placed on industry. 

 .- Senator Collings said this afternoon that although he had no technical knowledge of the subject, he felt that he was well qualified to speak about the distillation of oil from coal. I do not profess to know very much about the export of beef, but I do know something about the lamb trade, and having this knowledge I cross swords with  Senator Foll,  and challenge his conclusions about the effect of quotas, as against import duties, on the sales of Australian meat in the Mother Country. The quota system means an intermittent market, and, at some seasons of the year, no market at all. I can quite readily understand the attitude of  Major Elliot,  the British Minister for Agriculture.  His  purpose is to protect, by the quota system, the home producers of beef and lamb against the competition of dominion and South American producers. I agreed that with the quota there will be a good market for Australian beef and lambs until the quota is filled; but when that point has been reached what will become of the surplus exportable stock in Australia? Prices would fall to zero. If an import duty of  id.  per lb. were imposed upon lamb the price in England would be increased, and there would be a continuity of market, whereas the quota system may mean that there will bo no market for us at certain seasons of the year. The Government is to be congratulated upon what it has done up to the present time. It has succeeded in securing a quota sufficiently high to absorb the whole of our export trade in beef and lambs until the termination of the agreement with Argentina in September, 1936. When that agreement is ended we are hoping that the Government will be as successful in negotiating a new agreement as it was in securing an enlargement of the quota for Australia up to that period. I hope that eventually an import duty will be imposed in lieu of the quota, because, as I have stated, it will ensure to Australia a continuous, instead of an intermittent, market, which would play into the hands of a few speculators, who are anxious to make money out of the primary producers of this country. 

 Senator Collings criticized the Government's taxation proposals, particularly as they affect the workers of this country. I was unable to follow the honorable gentleman's reasoning, because, a3 all honorable senators know, the workers pay no land tax and no income tax. The only levy made upon them is in the form of indirect taxation, namely, the tariff which  Senator Collings  and his colleagues so strongly support. As a matter of fact they are continually urging the Government to increase this form of taxation thus making more difficult the lot of the workers through an increase of the cost of living; but I would go further and urge the Government to abolish altogether the super tax, thus giving relief to the amount of £1,200,000 to that section of the community which  Senator Collings  describes as the monied class. The success of our industries, and consequently the employment of our people, depend on cheap money, which will be available only if the Government gives relief from this form of taxation, and thus gives encouragement to private enterprise. I know that the original rate was 10 per cent., imposed in times of financial stress. Last year it was lowered to 6 per cent., and the Government now proposes to reduce the levy to 5 per cent. If it were abolished there would be an opportunity for industry to get money at a lower rate of interest. Cheap money has materially assisted 
Australia to get out of its difficulties during the last few years, and a continuation of this will, I believe, place this country on a sound footing again. The special tax on property operates unfairly. For example, it is far better for a man to invest money in bonds returning 3£ per cent, than to lend it on mortgage in secondary or primary production at 5J per cent., because income from the Government bonds is free of taxation, whereas mortgage interest carries five taxes - the federal income tax, the super tax, the State income tax, a State special tax, and, in some States, an unemployment relief tax. I do not believe that the sacrifice of £1,200,000 of revenue by the abolition of the super tax would not be too great a concession. The discontinuance of the tax would obviate the necessity for State governments to pass legislation enforcing a reduction of interest charges. I am opposed to much of this class of legislation that has been enacted by State parliaments, for while these laws may force a reduction of interest charges temporarily, the ultimate effect will be to make it difficult, if not impossible, in certain circumstances, for borrowers to obtain money at all. It is possible, by act of Parliament, to reduce the rate of interest payable under any mortgage; it is not possible to compel a man to lend his money at what he may regard as an inadequate rate of interest. I believe that a great disservice is being done to our primary producers by the rural rehabilitation legislation which has been enacted in some States, and I appeal to the Government to again consider the advisability of abolishing the super tax on income even if it does mean the sacrifice of £1,200,000 of revenue. State legislation to reduce interest charges may be welcomed by those who have borrowed money, but it may also make it difficult for governments to obtain finance, though, possibly, this may be a blessing in disguise. I should like to see more money flowing into the channels of industry instead of being absorbed by governments. 
I note with satisfaction that £1,650,000 is being provided out of revenue, and £241,360 from loan this year for various constructional works for the Postal Department. Last year the provision from revenue was only £202,245, the balance of £1,240,640 being provided from Joan. I hope that adequate provision will be made for automatic telephone exchanges in country districts. 
The establishment of a greater number of automatic telephone exchanges in rural districts will be an inestimable boon to country people. These exchanges can be established in units of 25 subscribers, and a continuous service can be given to subscribers who, in other circumstances, would not get it, and the cost will be very little greater than that of a. manually operated exchange. It may be argued that country telephone exchanges are not profitable. I challenge that statement. The departmental estimates of revenue take account of only the outward calls. If the calls from the metropolitan areas and large provincial centres were credited as they should be, to the small country exchanges, the latter would be shown in a much more favorable light. Some of the calls initiated from the larger centres could not be made if the small country exchanges did not exist. 
I was much interested in  Senator Foil's  story of his visit to the industrial centres in Great Britain, and was surprised to hear his version of the unemployment situation in the Mother Country where, according to the latest figures, the number of persons out of work is between 2,000,000 and 3,000,000. If the position were as  Senator Foll  has stated, one would imagine that the Conservative Government, led by  Mr. Stanley  Baldwin, would have secured a victory at every by-election, whereas byelections have been won consistently by Labour candidates with majorities up to 10,000. Obviously the unemployment problem in Great Britain is not quite so satisfactory as  Senator Foll  would have us believe it is. 
The honorable senator also dealt with the future migration policy of this country. For the last 30 years, in its endeavour to prevent the increase of unemployment in Australia, the Labour party has been subjected to a good deal of criticism for its determination to restrict the introduction of any but the most suitable classes of migrants, but it is significant that when  Mr. Bruce  led the conservative forces of this country in the 192S election he adopted, as one plank of his platform, Labour's policy with regard to migration. Although Labour may sometimes make mis* takes, more frequently it achieves triumphs and I think I may claim that the 192S election demonstrated the wisdom of our migration policy over a period of 30 years, and this policy ha.s been greatly strengthened by the depression. I admit that  Senator Foll  did offer a constructive suggestion with regard to this aspect of Government policy, and I find it supported in the leading article appearing in to-day's  Sydney Morning Herald.  An extract from it reads - 
If over a term of years, long in an individual's lifetime but short in the history of a nation, 5,000,000 people could be shifted from Great Britain to Australia to engage in manufacturing industry, though Britain would certainly lose some trade, the gain to Australia in population and economic wealth would more than compensate the Mother Land by the added man power and economic strength which would accrue to the empire. But would Britain be prepared to pay the cost, which might to only a temporary cost - a transfer of some of Britain's trade to the dominions ? 
That is the hurdle which  Senator Foll  has to jump. The Opposition claims that Australia would obtain an increase of its population by establishing additional industries. The  Sydney Morning Herald,  which doubts Britain's desire to transfer industrial undertakings to this country, asks whether such action would promote British interests.  Senator Foll  thinks it would. I believe that this would be an acceptable way to increase our population, although the most desirable way would be to increase, the number of industries established by Australians. Of course, some British industries have been transferred to Australia because of the operation of our protective tariff. In the same article the London  Morning Post  is quoted as having said that Germany has a population of 363, Italy 344, and Japan 347 to the square mile. Aus-  tralians  should not allow to go uncontradicted the allegation .that we have 3,000,000 square miles of territory fit for closer settlement. As a matter of fact, about one-third of our country is sheer desert. Carnegie once said that 150 miles from any part of the Australian coast the land was fit only for pastoral purposes. In some instances its productive capacity is even less than that. When people overseas say that we have a continent capable of absorbing tens of millions of migrants they are absolutely in the wrong. We are populating this country at a fair rate. The United States of America was colonized about the year 1620, and 150 years later, when the socalled War of Independence occurred, the population was only 3,000,000, whereas 150 years after the colonization of Australia its population is nearly 7,000,000. We have done fairly well, considering that we are bound to the chariot wheels of Britain's industrial and financial system, and largely depend upon pastoral and 'agricultural production. -If it were not for the protectionist policy, which became the Australian policy despite our opponents and .British interests, our population would be considerably less than it is to-day. J ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted-; debate adjourned. 
In view of the importance of the document and the public interest in the petition presented by the State of Western Australia, can the Leader of the Senate say if it is . the intention of the Government to have it printed? 
Such papers do not necessarily come within the purview of the Printing Committee. 
Is the PostmasterGeneral in a position to supply any information relating to the installation of rural automatic telephone exchanges ? 
I assume that the honorable senator desires to know the number in operation in country districts. We have already installed 26, five are in course of installation, 26 more are provided for in this year's Estimates, and I contemplate an addition to that number. 
Can the PostmasterGeneral furnish an answer to the question which I addressed to him on Thursday last, with reference to the number of returned soldiers temporarily employed as linesmen, conduit workers and mechanics, in The Postmaster-General's Department in Victoria, and also the number of returned soldiers engaged to carry out flood damage repairs and work in connexion with the Victorian Centen ary celebrations? 
The information required by the honorable senator calls for a great deal of investigation and the examination of a large number of records. Next week I expect to be in a position to supply an answer to his question. 
[3.9]. - I move - 
That thu bill be now read a second time. 
By section 65 of the Constitution, it is enacted that until Parliament  otherwise  provides, the Ministers of State shall not exceed seven in number. The salaries of such Ministers are provided for in section 66 which appropriates, until such time as the Parliament otherwise provides, the sum of £12,000 a year. Honorable senators will realize that since that provision was made, there has been a tremendous expansion in the number of Commonwealth departments, the administrative functions of which have become much more complex. As a member of the Commonwealth Parliament since its inception, I am safe in saying that if a member of the first Commonwealth Ministry joined the present Government he would be dumbfounded at the extent and range of subjects dealt with to-day as compared with 1901. Parliament has made other provisions in regard to Ministers of State which are now embodied in the Ministers of State Act of 1917, as amended by the financial emergency legislation. To-day nine Commonwealth Ministers are controlling twelve departments, and under the bill it is proposed to increase that number to ten. I am sure honorable senators will appreciate the desirableness of ensuring that the departments are controlled by a sufficient number of Ministers, and will agree that, in the interests of efficiency, no less than in the interests of the general public, the number of Ministers should increase with the growth in the number of departments. At present some Ministers are in charge of as many as throb departments, and most Ministers are controlling branches of other departments. On previous occasions when the number of Ministers has been increased, parliamentary approval has been given to the additional allowance necessary, the amount in each instance being £1,650. On this occasion it is not intended to provide that amount; after allowing for the 20 per cent, reduction imposed by the financial emergency legislation, the amount will be £1,320. On the other hand, there will be a consequential saving of £185 under parliamentary allowances, as a Minister of State draws only £640 compared with £825 paid to an ordinary member. I  invite  honorable senators to study the position in the various States, and particularly to peruse the budget of the Tasmanian Government, the amount of money controlled by the eight Tasmanian Ministers, two of whom are Honorary Ministers, and the scope of their activities. In South Australia there are six Ministers, and in Western Australia nine, one of whom is «n Honorary Minister. In Queensland there are ten Ministers, as is now proposed for the Commonwealth. I ask honorable senators to study the Queensland 'budget and compare it with the ramifications of a federal budget. In New South Wales there are thirteen Ministers, and one Assistant Minister, white in Victoria there are twelve Ministers, four of whom are without portfolios. Therefore, having regard to the number of Ministers in State governments, the Commonwealth cannot be charged with extravagance. Any one knowing the responsibilities of a Commonwealth Minister will not say that there are too many Ministers. The human frame is capable of standing only a certain amount of strain ; if it is subjected to excessive strain, it suffers a loss of energy and efficiency. There is no real economy in adopting a parsimonious policy in respect of those directing the affairs of the Commonwealth. I commend the bill to the favorable consideration of the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator COLLINGS )  adjourned. 
.- I move - 
That the  bill  be now read a second time. 
As it has already been stated in a section of the press that this is a far-reaching measure, it is interesting to note that its main purpose is to embody the provisions of the British Official Secrets Act  1920  in the Commonwealth Crimes Act, but, in addition, provision is also made for several amendments of the Crimes Act that are considered to be desirable. The British Official Secrets Act of  1911  applied to the dominions, including Australia, but it was provided that its application to a dominion could be suspended by His Majesty on the passing of similar legislation in that dominion. In accordance with this proviso, the application of the British act of  1911  to Australia was suspended in November  1915,  consequent upon the passing of the Commonwealth Crimes Act  1914,  Part VII. of which relates to breaches of official secrecy. In  1920  a further act - the British Official Secrets Act - was passed by the Government of the United Kingdom. It added to and amended the British act of  1911.  When forwarding a copy of the new act to the Australian Government, the Secretary of State stated that its main features were regarded by the Army Council " as of the utmost importance from the point of view of defence The Army Council also stressed the importance of similar legislation being passed by the dominions, and the desirability of securing uniformity of policy in this respect throughout the Empire. It also emphasized that the new provisions included in the act of  1920  were a valuable addition to the defence of the State against modern methods of spying and kindred offences. 
The Commonwealth has a special trust to discharge in this direction. The experience and information of the Defence 
Departments  in  the United Kingdom  in  regard to such matters as the standardization of equipment, and the training and organization of the Empire's forces are placed freely at the disposal of Australia and the other dominions, thus enabling them to take full advantage of the experimental work of the United Kingdom in respect of design and construction. It is therefore incumbent  on  the Commonwealth to ensure that the same safeguards against leakages of official secrets are taken here as are observed in the United Kingdom. Moreover, it is prejudicial to the public interest and the security of the State that secret information should appear in the newspapers, whilst premature disclosures are embarrassing to the Administration. The measure now before the Senate will establish additional safeguards  in these respects. 
The bill embodies the provisions of the British Official  Secrets Act,  subject  to  such modifications as are necessary  to  ensure conformity with other provisions of the Crimes Act and other Commonwealth laws affected. These provisions are contained in clause  2  and clauses  10  to  16. 
I do not propose, at this stage, to explain in detail the various provisions of the bill, but the consideration of the measure will be facilitated if I outline briefly the scope of some of its principal clauses. 
Definitions, as a rule, do not affect the principle underlying a bill; but this measure contains a definition of " Superintendent of Police " which is most important. Clause  13,  which relates to search warrants, confers large powers on a superintendent of police, and it is thought necessary that the person entrusted with those powers should be clearly defined. Clauses  3  and  4  deal with the question of the disposal of forfeited articles. Section  9  of theCrimes Act relates to the seizure  of  forfeited articles by constables, but it often happens that seizures are effected by persons other than constables. In such cases it is doubtful whether section  9  applies,  so  in order to clear up this doubt it is proposed to amend sub-section  (1)  of that section by inserting in it after the word " constable " the words " or any Commonwealth officer who is authorized in that behalf by a Minister of State ". The purpose of the amendment is to give to Commonwealth officers certain powers of seizure which previously were exercised only by officers of police. Certain articles may be seized by such officers and later may be condemned by a court of summary jurisdiction. 
The provision will operate mainly with respect to wireless broadcasting receiving sets. The powers of inspectors in this connexion will be more clearly defined. 
Clause 5 deals with indeterminate sentences. This provision is, perhaps, a little alien to the general purpose of the measure; but it is inserted because certain difficulties in regard to indeterminate sentences have arisen as between the Commonwealth and some of the States. Under the Commonwealth law, before a person can be given an indeterminate sentence, he must previously have been convicted of serious offences on at least two occasions. Cases have arisen in which the judges have thought that it would have been desirable to impose an indeterminate sentence even though there had been no previous conviction of the person concerned. Provision to that effect is embodied in the Victorian law; it is now inserted in the Commonwealth law on the suggestion of the judges. 
Yes ; the aim is to give convicted youths a chance to reform while still young. 
Another important provision relates to attempts to incite to mutiny. The present law imposes a term of imprisonment as punishment for inciting to mutiny; but as the offence may be committed by a body corporate, it is thought advisable to provide for a fine of £1,000 as well as imprisonment for life in the case of an individual. 
Clause 6, which deals with this subject, reads - 
Section twenty-five of the principal act is a mended - 
by inserting in sub-section (1.), after the word " Penalty " the words " One thousand pounds or " ; 
by inserting, after sub-section (1.), the following sub-section: - " (1a.) Any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper containing any matter of such a nature as to, or as to be likely to - 
seduce any person serving in the King's Forces from his duty and allegiance; or 
incite any person serving in the King's Forces to commit an act of mutiny, or any traitorous or mutinous act; or 
incite any person serving in the King's Forces to make or endeavour to make a mutinous assembly, shall be guilty of an indictable offence. 
Two or three years ago a prosecution was launched against the publisher of a newspaper printed in Melbourne. He was charged with having " knowingly " incited the officers of the Royal Australian Navy to mutiny. The defence put forward on that occasion was that the publisher had no knowledge of the offence; and any one who has had experience of newspaper work will realize that that was probably true. Matter published in a newspaper as news or as editorial comment does not come under thepurview of the publisher. In. the case mentioned, the jury acquitted the publisher, and probably rightly so. Clause 6 is designed to meet such cases. 
Another provision which is of importance is to be found in clause 7, which gives power to require information from any suspected person. The act of 1932 gave the Attorney-General power to require answers to questions put to certain persons, but subsequently - I do not know whether it was because this provision was considered to be too wide - an amendment was made in a crimes bill before the Senate in 1932, which had the effect of considerably modifying the law. That bill, however, was never passed. The section now being inserted by clause 7 provides for certain safeguards before questions may be administered, and as this is a matter which touches upon the policy of the criminal Jaw I direct the attention of honorable senators to the proposed  now section 30ab, which reads as follows :  - "30ab. - (1.) If a police, stipendiary or special magistrate is satisfied, by information upon oath laid before him by any person duly authorized by the Attorney-General,that any person has in his possession or custody any documents relating to an unlawful association, or has knowledge or information relating to such an association, the police, stipendiary or special magistrate, as the case may be, may, by writing under his hand, authorize any constable to serve upon . that person or, in the case of a corporation, upon a person holding a specified office in the corporation, a notice in writing requiring the person upon whom the notice is served to - 
answer questions submitted to him in writing ; 
furnish information either orally or in writing; and 
produce for inspection, or authorize in writing the production for inspection of, and the taking of copies of, any documents, relating to - 
any money, property or funds belonging to or held by or on hebalf of an unlawful association, or as to which there is reasonable cause to believe that they belong to or are held by or on behalf of an unlawful association : 
any payments made directly or in directly by, to, or on behalf of, an unlawful association, or as towhich there is reasonable cause to believe that they are so made; or (f)any transactions to which an unlawful association is or is reasonably believed to be a party. " (2.) Any person who without just cause (proof whereof shall lie upon him) - 
refuses or fails to answer truly and fully any questions put to him in pursuance of this section; 
refuses or fails to furnish information required in pursuance of this section; or 
refuses or fails to allow the inspection or the taking of copies, of documents as required in pursuance of this section; or 
gives any information required in pursuance of this section which is false in any particular, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: One hundred pounds or imprisonment for six months.". 
Clause 8 inserts a new section 30s providing that offenders under the part of the act to which it relates, shall not be prosecuted except by a person authorized in writing by the Attorney-General. There is some doubt as to- whether any person is entitled to prosecute in particular types of cases and that safeguard is proposed, subject to this proviso, which is redolent of the habeas corpus act - " (2.)Nothing in this section shall prevent the discharging of the accused if proceedings are not continued within a reasonable time.". 
There is provision in clause 9 to meet a difficulty which sometimes occurs in the ordinary execution of the law relating to counterfeit coins. Proposed new section 62a provides that where any coin or other personal property found in the possession of a person convicted of an offence against this part of the act was obtained by him in exchange for any counterfeit coin, the court may order the return of the coin or goods to the person from whom it was obtained or may make such order with respect thereto as is just. In the past there has been no provision under which such an order could have been made. 
Section 79 of the principal act is amended by adding two provisions with regard to the unlawful communication of secret information, and then follow a group of new sections, 81a to 81f. They are self-contained and self explanatory and do not require elaboration. Proposed new section81a contains several sub-sections regarding the unauthorized use of uniforms and passports, the making of false statements and the alteration of passports or certificates. Proposed new section81b deals with communications with foreign agents; such communications are themselves to be deemed to constitute evidence of the commission of certain offences. Proposed new section 81c deals with interference with officers of the police or members of  His  Majesty's forces, and provides that any person who is in the vicinity of a prohibited place shall not obstruct any member of the police force or of the defence force, engaged on sentry duty. Proposed new section81d authorizes the Minister to require the production of telegrams from persons who control private telegraph or wireless stations. Power is also given, apart from the general power with which every court is vested, to hear cases  incamera,  where it is thought that the publication of the matter dealt with by the court may be detrimental to the safety of the Commonwealth. 
Those are the main matters of principle dealt with by the bill.. It may be, as is usual when dealing with the defence of the  realm, that some of the provisions will be thought to be rather more far-reaching than the provisions of the criminal law usually are. The bill follows the British Official Secrets Act of 1920, and contains some additional provisions which were considered necessary. I commend its provisions to the consideration of honorable senators in the belief that they should be incorporated in the law. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
Yesterday I drew attention to the satisfactory growth of the population of Australia in comparison with that of the United States of America in the first 150 years after its settlement by Europeans. I wish to contradict certain statements sometimes spoken in public or appearing in the press about the population of Australia. These statements are made either unthinkingly or without a full appreciation of the facts and prove damaging to the Commonwealth. Although the area of this continent is 3,000,000 square miles the country itself does not constitute a paradise capable of supporting a huge population. In the next 100 years we may reasonably expect to increase our population to 40,000,000 or 50,000,000, but our resources will never enable us to become a second Europe with a population of 500,000,000, or to carry the enormous population that the United States of America will eventually have. If honorable senators are ever presented with the opportunity, I hope that they will rebuke any person whom they hear asserting that Australia has vast areas awaiting intense settlement by ambitious Europeans. 
Some time ago I addressed a series of questions to  Senator A.  J. McLachlan relating to the possibility of the payment of secret commissions in the butter industry in States other than Queensland. A royal commission in the northern State found that at least £30,000 had been received in secret commissions by butter factory managers and directors. I endeavoured to secure an undertaking from  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, as MinisterinCharge of Development, that this matter would be experimentally probed. The honorable senator fended very admirably and led me through a number of mazes and I gained no information of importance for my pains. Despite my persistency he proved most elusive. Conceive of my surprise, after gaining the impression from the Minister that there were no wicked people in the butter industry outside of Queensland, when I discovered only a few months ago in the Melbourne  Herald  a short report of a meeting at which it was stated that the Victorian conference of butter factory managers and secretaries had approved of an inquiry by an officer of the Department of Agriculture into allegations that factory managers were receiving secret commissions. The same report announced also that inquiries were being instituted by the Minister for Agriculture to ascertain whether there was any justification for incurring the expense of the royal commission, for which a request had been made by those who made the allegations. At least two States other than Queensland are interested in the butter industry, which is of great importance to the Commonwealth. I hope that the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce will furnish honorable senators with information regarding the outcome of the Victorian investigations. 
SenatorBROWN (Queensland) [3.48]. - Knowing that the Government is most anxious to have this measure passed it is fortunate that I am of an accommodating nature and am always prepared to sit down when requested so to do. I do not wish to obstruct the progress of this bill, and shall confine my remarks to a few matters more or less urgent. 
I followed  Senator Poll's  remarks with keen attention and later I shall reply to many of the misstatements that he made. My sympathy goes out to  Senator Poll,  who- on a number of occasions, has been attacked by honorable senators sitting on the same side of the chamber as he does. Criticism of him by the Labour party is quite legitimate, but I regard  criticism by members of his own political persuasion as being unfair. I commend you,  Mr. President,  for your strenuous opposition, when on the floor of the Senate, to a determined effort made by the Leader of the Senate to curtail the rights of members. We value highly the opportunity which the motion for the first reading of a Supply Bill affords us to speak frankly concerning subjects which, as you once said, may be nearest to our hearts. Unfortunately, this afternoon, as on so many previous occasions when supply bills have come before us, there is need for the rapid passage of the measure, so I must take advantage of another opportunity to speak on some of the subjects which I have in mind. 
I was interested in  Senator Brand's  maiden speech in the Senate yesterday. As one might have expected, the honorable senator spoke on the defence of Australia, a subject in which we are all interested, despite the gibes of some honorable senators opposite that, Labour is opposed to expenditure on defence. We are not opposed to the defence of Australia ; we believe that adequate measures should be taken to protect this country from aggression. But we do not see eye to eye with the Ministry on this important matter. We blame the Government for its failure to encourage the people of this country to become air-minded, and to that end we urge that the development of glider clubs should be encouraged. 
The humourist from Riverina - by some people regarded as the Cromwell of Riverina - is pleased to be satirical at the expense of the Labour party. As usual, his interjection is wide of the truth. The Labour party believes in the adoption of the most modern means for the defence of Australia. Holding this belief, we criticize the Government's attitude towards glider clubs. Yesterday, when I asked the Leader of the Senate a question concerning the assistance given to glider clubs in Australia, I was informed that the sum of £600 had been set aside for distribution under certain conditions. As the result of the restrictions imposed on these clubs only a small proportion of the money made available has been expended. It may interest honorable senators to know that other countries are giving serious attention to the development of gliding clubs, the members of which are encouraged to take further training to qualify as reserve air pilots for defence purposes.  Mr. StubbsWalker,  the air correspondent of the London  Daily Herald,  has written an interesting article dealing with the training of members of gliding clubs in Russia - a country which is so often strongly criticized by Ministers and their supporters.  Mr. Stubbs-  Walker states - 
There are more than 10 training centres on the same lines as the Moscow Air Club in different corners of the country, and hundreds of smaller bases are training 10,000 pilots every year. 
Within three or four years, when the rather cumbersome organization of the Soviet is working completely, the number of pilots turned out every year will be more than doubled. 
Already they have established thousands of gliding schools all over the country. 
Official figures show that there were 40,000 trained gliding pilots in . Russia. By the end of this year there will be another 20,000. 
These trained glider pilots make the first step towards aeroplane pilots. One of the rigid rules of the Soviet Government is that no one is allowed to touch a power-driven aeroplane until he has proved capable of flying a glider. 60,000 Pilots. 
Th is enormous reserve of 60,000 could he turned into completely trained pilots within about three months, and their training would be on a scale considerably higher than that of the ordinary private aviator in Britain. 
The normal training course lasts for a year, and the pupil puts in about 50 hours of actual flying. 
Before he is allowed to fly an aeroplane, the pupil has a thorough course of navigation, ground training, theory of flight, a course of gliding, and instruction on the ground in " Dummy " aircraft. 
He states further that, partly because of the preliminary experience of aeronau tics gained in gliding clubs, the actual cost of training an air pilot amounts to only £30. Apparently, the Soviet Government is not niggardly in its expenditure on gliding clubs. It realizes their value as organizations for the training of air pilots to serve the nation in time of war. Instead of criticizing Russia, Germany, and other countries this Government, if it believes in defence, should get busy and see that more adequate measures are  taken for the training of air pilots in Australia. We contend that greater financial assistance to gliding clubs would be a step in the right direction. 
I shall support any amendment to increase the vote for gliding clubs. I understand that the Brisbane Gliding Club has met the requirements of the Defence Department as to personnel and organization, but members of that club inform me that gliding is really a costly business, and that tilley are not getting a great deal of encouragement. They have actually been chased off the flying field by the lessee of the land which, is owned by the Government, and when a glider is broken, owing to an accident, they are not always able to afford the money for repairs. They are also anxious that the Government should make provision for a hangar, thus obviating the necessity for dismantling their machines at the end of a day's work. I have interviewed the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Parkhill)  in regard to this matter, and he has promised to do his best to make better provision in future for gliding clubs. I hope soon to have an assurance from the Minister that more encouragement will be given to members of these organizations throughout the Commonwealth. 
I direct attention to the valuable medical services being carried out by the Australian Inland Mission in the northwestern portion of Queensland. This work is financed for the most part by private subscriptions, supplemented by a government grant of £300 a year. I hope that the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior will be able to persuade Cabinet to set aside a larger amount for this important work. The services commenced in May, 1928, with a Qantas aeroplane hired by the Inland Mission. The machine is kept in readiness at Cloncurry to answer calls that may come from, any part of north-western Queensland, an area larger than the State of New South Wales. 
Yes; a pilot employed by Qantas is on duty day and night. The area covered by this medical service extends 400 miles north-east of Cloncurry as far as Cape York Peninsula, 500 miles south as far as Birdsville on the South Australian border, and 600 miles to the north-west. As the country is sparsely populated, there is a lack of telephonic communication; so the Inland Mission has installed wireless transmitters at various centres. During the last three years the flying doctor of the Australian Inland Mission has travelled on an average 20,000 miles each year and has rendered efficient service to persons involved in accidents and those suffering from illness. Last years when a man engaged in mustering cattle was seriously injured in the Selwyn Ranges a message was despatched to Cloncurry and the doctor left immediately. He landed some miles from the scene of the accident, but eventually got the man into the plane and carried him to the Cloncurry Hospital where he recovered. Transport over that distance would have been impossible had not the services of this efficient officer been available. I realize that the flying doctor operating in the Northern Territory is under the control of the Department of the Interior, and that the Commonwealth Government is not responsible for the work of the officer operating in north-western Queensland, who is paid from private funds. I know from experience and from conversations during visits to Cloncurry that the mission is extremely short of funds and that an additional aeroplane is necessary. If one were available the ever present fear of accidents and illness, particularly amongst the women, would disappear. During heavy rains the roads are closed to ordinary means of transport, and it is impossible to obtain medical attention in any other way. Those living in the north-west feel that if the services of a flying doctor are always available their burdens will be lightened. I appeal to the Government to grant a larger sum to the Australian Inland Mission and thus increase the facilities now provided in the north-west of Queensland. 
.- I take this opportunity to bring under the notice of the Government the position  of  growers of apples and pears. Those engaged in the production of these fruits have played a very important part in bringing about closer settlement, and people who know anything at all about the areas on which apples and pears are grown will realize that but for the production of these fruits the land would have remained, idle. Land in Tasmania now utilized for this purpose and which was previously unoccupied is closely settled. During the last few years, with the exception of 1934, those engaged in the industry have experienced considerable hardships. As prices were better last year a number of orchardists were able to show a small profit, but this unfortunately did not compensate for the losses of previous years. The Government has already assisted the industry, and I trust that as a result of the representations I am now making it will increase the assistance previously given and thus place the industry, which is of great importance to Australia, upon a sound foundation. The latest edition of the  Commonwealth Year Book  shows that for the financial year 1932-33 the returns from apples and pears exported exceeded those from the export of raisins and currants which are regarded as particularly suitable for production on small areas. The respective amounts were £2,214,128 and £2,I7S,772. If the apple-growers and the pear-growers are compelled to cease production some of the areas they now occupy will be abandoned and unemployment will increase. Some years ago the freight  on  fresh fruit from Australia to Great Britain was 2s. 6d. a case, but  To-day  it is bout 4s. 1-kl. made up of 3s. 6d. freight plus 18 per cent, exchange, while the prices realized are often far below those obtained, when the lower freights prevailed. (When the freight was low the industry became firmly established, but reduced prices and increases of freight have seriously affected the growers. From correspondence I have received I gather that representations  Iki  ve a lready been made,  to  the Government by the States Fruit Board of Tasmania, which has asked for a more liberal scale of assistance as a contribution  towards  the additional freight costs. Apples and pears are produced for export in Victoria, Tasmania, Western 
Australia and New South Wales, and to a limited extent in Queensland, so the matter is of widespread importance. In order to ensure a reasonable export price growers have adopted a quota system which has thrown from 50 per cent, to 52 per cent, of their output of wholesome marketable fruit on the local market. If assistance were given in the direction suggested larger quantities could be exported and the necessity of disposing of large quantities on the local market would be obviated. Owing to the limited demand in the  home  market large quantities of good fruit are wasted. I have taken the earliest opportunity to ask the Government to consider the necessity for assisting this valuable industry, because if a definite and favorable pronouncement be made before Parliament rises, the growers will be encouraged to carry on. If they are assisted unemployment will be reduced in the States concerned. The pear industry has perhaps not been handicapped to the same extent as the apple industry, but it has been rendered less profitable owing to the introduction of a standardized fancy package which has to be utilized by exporters. Costs are thus increased by over 6d. a case. The orchardists having complied strictly with the conditions laid down naturally hope to receive a price which will enable them to continue producing profitably. I trust that the Minister will place this request before Cabinet so that assistance may be forthcoming this year. 
.- I direct the attention of the Government to the operation of the sales tax which seriously affects many persons in the community. In many instances the tax is grossly unfair, and the manner in which it is administered is unsatisfactory. I agree to some extent with honorable senators opposite that the sales tax, which was imposed for revenue purposes, falls particularly heavily upon the poorer section of the community. Some of the decisions given, against which there is no appeal, inflict great hardship upon the people. There appears to be no reason for the discrimination which results in some articles being subject to tax while others are exempt. The Commissioner of Taxes should not be given arbitrary powers. There should be a right of appeal against  his rulings. The Commissioner never admits that a mistake has been made by his department; the blame is always placed on the taxpayer. 
Our customs laws require amending. For instance, duty and primage has to be paid on the casks containing sprays used  by  orchardists, notwithstanding that when emptied of their contents the casks are of no further use and are immediately burned. If necessary the importers are prepared to destroy the casks under the supervision of officers of the department if granted relief from customs duty and primage iti respect of them. As these men are growing fruit for export, and have to accept world prices for their products, and cost of production should be kept as low as possible. 
The Opposition says that the Government has remitted large sums to wealthy taxpayers while not relieving the burden on the poorer sections of the community, but it does not tell us that the Scullin Government compulsorily reduced the income of the big taxpayers by 22-J per cent, and, in addition, imposed the 10 per cent, super tax on them. Obviously, if a man's income is reduced, the income tax payable by him becomes proportionately less. There has been no reduction in the income tax rates. I agree with the Opposition that a full restoration of salaries should be made to public servants, because they are thoroughly deserving, but I urge the Government to take steps to abolish the iniquitous super tax. The persons subject to that tax have had no restoration made to them. 
It is worse even than the sales tax, and I should like to see it abolished. 
No man should be taxed, except on his profits. 
I trust the Government will do something to encourage the production of light metals, such as magnesium, in Australia. When in England a few years  ago,  I learned that although light metals arp essential to the manufacture of aircraft, such metals are not manufactured to any extent in the British Empire, but are purchased from either Germany or the United States of America. Australia has the raw materials and as the process of manufacture is not beyond the capacity of its people, it should manufacture these light metals for the whole of the Empire. There is an enormous demand for such metals at the present time. I urge the Government to have an investigation made into this subject by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. 
I hope that the discussions with the South Australian Government in relation to the Port Augusta to Red Hill railway will soon be brought to a satisfactory conclusion. If the State is not agreeable to the construction of the proposed railway, the Commonwealth should not attempt to force on it something which it does not want. 
The amendment of the Navigation Act, to which His Majesty the King has recently notified his assent, has conferred a real benefit on Tasmania. I commend the Government for having introduced that measure. 
The Government has done well to install a number of automatic telephone exchanges in country districts. These installations are an immense boon to country people, because they give a continuous service at very little expense apart from the first cost. I hope that the policy of providing country districts with automatic telephones will be continued. 
.- The two greatest problems which have confronted this country since 1931 have been the relief of unemployment and the rehabilitation of our primary industries. Happily, most of the unemployment in this country due to the world depression is being gradually overcome; but the 7 per cent, or 8 per cent, of the population which, even in normal times, is out of work, should be provided for. This Parliament should devise means to help the unfortunate people concerned. During the depression, unemployment increased largely because our factories had no market for their products. The return to work of large numbers of factory employees has improved the position allround, for a factory working full time gives employment in other occupations also. 
Notwithstanding that 64 per cent, of our primary products are consumed in this country, there is a tendency in some quarters to ignore the great value of the Australian home market. Australia would gain more from an extension of that market by 10 per cent, than from attempts to persuade people on the other side of the world to purchase our surplus production. "World conditions to-day are so different from what they were some years ago that our bargaining is now confined to those primary products which we grow but which other countries do not produce. Nearly every country in the world is paying subsidies to its primary producers and creating its own home market. We in Australia cannot complain of their action, because we fix a home price for our primary products. 
"We have fixed a home price for butter and dried fruits, and are about to do so for wheat and flour. Australian manufacturers have not objected to the fixing of home prices for our primary products, but it is not generally recognized t/hat such fixation of prices has affected the cost of living, and this in turn has necessitated the payment of higher wages, with the result that the wages bill of Australia has increased by more than £5,000,000 per annum. As I have said, the home market is the best market for the primary producers. If that market can be built up and fostered the troubles of the primary producers of this country will be largely solved. But this cannot be done now as easily as might have been possible ten years ago because countries on the other side of the world are encouraging their own people to produce as much as possible of their requirements of primary products. 

 Senator Grant has made some remarks about the sales tax. Possibly it will not be amiss if I, as a person actually affected by this tax, say a few words about it. I glory in the fact that as a manufacturer I am helping to create something and to give employment to a large number of men, but in the conduct of my business I am being charged double sales tax. There has been an agitation for some time for the removal of this impost on " aids to manufacture ". I do not think that that is a good term to use, but it covers things that do not constitute the actual goods produced, but which have to be used in their manufacture. For instance, my own business involves a large amount of soldering work. Although no sales tax is imposed on the solder, tin plate and other materials used, it is imposed on the flux which evaporates into the air as the Bolder is floated on. In the same way sales tax is imposed on magnesia which is used for washing down the machines but which does not otherwise enter into the production of the article. Files, emery wheels and sand paper used in the production of dies are subject to the tax although they do not form part of the finished goods and are destroyed in the process of manufacture. Not only do I pay the tax on these goods, but the buyer to whom I sell the finished articles also has to pay rax. In my case the tax is only a small item; it would not amount to more than £15 or £20 a year, but a principle is involved. The double taxation of soda ash used in the woollen trade involves the payment, of many thousands of pounds. I have read a statement by the Assistant Treasurer that if the sales tax were remitted on " aids to manufacture " it would mean a loss of £1,500,000 of Commonwealth revenue, but as the total value of such aids to manufacturers would not amount to £1,500,000, the sales tax imposed on them would not be very large. Manufacturers are not going insolvent because of the imposition of this taxation, as they are able to pass it on ; but the point  is that the consumer eventually pays double and sometimes treble tax. 
I desire to know if it was the intention of the Government when it appointed the Broadcasting Commission that its members should personally interfere with the management of the undertaking, or was it intended that this responsibility should be left to the general manager and that the members of the commission should deal only with matters of finance and policy? For some months the members of the commission have been conducting the affairs of the undertaking without the services of a general manager and conducting them so badly that listeners generally are being forced to depend upon the B class stations for entertainment. The Broadcasting Commission  is in receipt of an income in excess of £700,000 a year; there are 710,000 subscribers paying 2:1 s. a year for their licences. 
It goes either to  the  Broadcasting Commission or to the Postmaster-General. Those 710,000 people have a right to expect first-class programmes to be broadcast through the National stations, but the programmes now being transmitted through the National stations are not so good as they should  be.  One reason for this is that the broadcasting is being conducted by well-intentioned amateurs instead of by a man trained specially for that particular work. As a consequence the whole of t the staffs of the A. class stations are in a state of turmoil, and their nerves have become disordered. I know of men who formerly occupied high positions in the service of the commission, but who have been glad  to  resign to take up jobs carrying considerably less remuneration. When I asked them why they did this they said that they were unable to stand the present administration any longer. They alleged that they were being continually interfered with in their work and that they were unable to get prompt decisions from the ( Commissioners on important points raised by them. I do not think that Parliament, when it passed the Australian Broadcasting Commission Bill, anticipated that the Commissioners would personally interfere with the actual conduct of the business. I hope that this state of affairs will be remedied as soon as possible by the appointment of a trained man to the position of manager. I have no desire to be regarded as being " antihighbrow " ; I am a lover of good music, but I say that it is possible to get too much of it. Good music plays upon the emotions probably more than anything else; like caviare, a little of it is nice, but too much is apt to bring about a liver complaint. Since the  Commissioners  have personally conducted the affairs of the commission  we  have had a surfeit of first class classical music. It  is  this aspect  of  our broadcasting programmes which  is  responsible for the increased public interest in the programmes of the B class stations. I hope that the PostmasterGeneral will take some notice of what I believe to be the consensus of opinion among listeners throughout Australia, namely, that there is room for considerable improvement in the programmes provided and that the deterioration of the entertainment is largely theresult of the failure of the commission to appoint a first class manager. 
I know nothing about  Major Conder  but people should be told why he resigned. I have been told that he was interfered with by members of the commission, and on the other hand I have been informed that he. resigned for no good reason. 
I do not know thegentleman but it is unfair to the commission to have it said that he was dismissed unfairly, and again it may be unfair to him that people should, be saying that he was dismissed for no good reason. The commission has been too secretive about this matter; it should have made public the reason for MajorConder's retirement from his position. 
"4.46" . - It would be unfortunate if the remarks made by  Senator Leckie  were allowed topass without an immediate answer. I would like the Senate to pass in quick review the history of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The commission was created by the will of theParliament; it was endowed with absolute powers, subject to certain limitations in regard to the amount of money that might be expended by it without the sanction of the Minister. Within the terms of the act the powers of the commission are plenary. After its inception the undertaking was placed in the charge of  Mr. Williams,  an admirableman, who, unfortunately is now deceased. During his tenure of office his time was largely occupied by a struggle with a body known as the Australian Performing Bights Association. The first chairnian of the commission was  Mr. Lloyd 
Jones, and during his chairmanship  Mr. Williams  passed away.  Mr. Lloyd  Jones subsequently found it necessary to retire from the position of  chairman.  All this happened within a period of three years. Since the commission was appointed there has been no opportunity for it to function properly and to grip thoroughly the tasks entrusted to it. Parliament has said that there should be a commission to control wireless broadcasting. In my view that body should have an opportunity to do the things expected of it by the public of Australia and by this Parliament. This broadcasting organization is tremendous, extending from one end of the continent to the other. Its functions are many ; one of them is the formulation of programmes of entertainment. There are as many diverse opinions regarding the programmes over the air as there are musical critics, and their number in this country is legion. I receive hundreds of letters in regard to the programmes, but I say for the information of  Senator Leckie  that the number of complaining letters received within the last three months has been less than at any similar period since I have held my present office. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has to perform its functions in its own way. When, in the opinion of the Postmaster-General's Department and of myself, it fails to discharge its duties, I shall recommend to Cabinet some change in the control. Until the commission has had a reasonable opportunity to fulfil its mission, however, honorable senators should refrain from criticizing it. 
Those three years have brought many vicissitudes, notably changes in the personnel of the commission. The new  chairman, Mr. Cleary,  has to familiarize himself with all the ramifications of broadcasting, which are numerous. The commission encounters tremendous difficulties, and honorable senators with some knowledge of the musical world will appreciate that musicians in Australia are somewhat critical of each other, and that is putting it very mildly. 
I am afraid they are worse. The musical people whisper their grievances, whereas the politician blares them forth from the public platform. My desire is that a standard shall be set by the Australian Broadcasting Commission which all the B class stations will try to emulate. I do not intend to allow an unsatisfactory position to remain, but the commission should not be submitted to pin pricks regarding details of management. Recently, the  chairman  visited all States in order to better acquaint himself with their requirements. 1 shall refrain from discussing the internal management of the commission. It is the function of that body to decide who shall be retained or dismissed, and who shall dischargeone duty or another. On matters of minor importance I think it would ill become this Parliament to criticize the commis sion. When that body fails in the administration of major policy, then will be the time for the Postmaster-General to intervene and for Parliament to substitute some other form of control. One honorable senator said that not a firstclass programme had been broadcast during the last few months. Let me remind honorable senators of the Budapest String Quartet, whose magnificent interpretations of the classics distinguish them as being the finest group of musicians introduced to Australia. The quartet elevated the entire musical life of this country. I make this statement on the authority of keen musical critics, for personally I am familiar only with the skirl of the bagpipes. Honorable senators may rest assured that I shall keenly watch the operations of the commission, but I ask that it shall be given an opportunity to function as Parliament intended. 
The remarks of  Senator Leckie  have prompted me to participate in this debate. The primary producers of this country realize, just as well as other sections of the community, the value of the home market to them. Anything that will stimulate that market in a healthy and legitimate manner will have their wholehearted support. But I feel obliged to sound another note, not in warning orprotest, but to define my own attitude. While we accept the platitude contained in 
Adam Smith's  Wealth of Nations  that the home market is always the best, we realize that that market has its limits, and I remind  Senator Leckie,  particularly in view of certain circulars which have been distributed among honorable senators during the past few days, that 97 per- cent, of the exportable wealth of Australia is the result of primary production. In other words, only 3 per cent, of the exportable wealth, which pays the country's debts abroad, is traceable to the manufacturing industries. While primary producers are willing to pull their weight in order to create and stimulate a healthy home market, they strenuously protest against political acts, such as those for which a previous Parliament was responsible, which threaten to stop the outflow of primary products - the life stream of this nation. In order to extend protection against a comparatively small import valued at £50,000 in the interest of companies paying as much as 14 per cent, in dividends, the previous Parliament jeopardized a market for wheat and barley alone worth £2,000,000. Whilst as a representative of the primary producers I shall be ready to work loyally with the party with which the Country party is allied, I shall never support any action which will increase the gain of a few individuals or groups of individuals at the expense of the primary producers and to the prejudice of the nation generally. 
My outlook is absolutely international ; the only means of encompassing peace and access to the markets of the world is through international understanding^ Later I propose to move a motion which will give honorable senators an opportunity to expound their views on this subject. Many years ago the late Andrew ."Fisher, whose name stands very high in the affectionate remembrance of the Australian people, informed Australians that it was time for them to think  continentally.  The time has arrived when not only Australians but the whole world should be told to think internationally. 
[5.0]. - I ask honorable senators to excuse me if I do not reply to all the points that have been raised in this dis cussion. I feel strongly tempted to follow  Senator Collings  into the history of old-age pensions. On that subject I could relate a story quite different from his account, but 1 must deny myself that pleasure.  Senator Collings  has constantly advocated the restoration of pensions to 20s. a week. Let me inform the honorable senator that the purchasing value of the pension to-day is as high as it was when the payment was £1 weekly If honorable senators refer to the budget speech they will see that there are 273,938 old-age and invalid, pensioners on the rolls, representing an increase of 13,313 during the last 12 months The total pensions bill was £11,762,030, which was higher than at any stage since the introduction of the pension system The expenditure on this account during the present financial year is estimated to be £12,770,000. On those figures  Senator Collings  will have great difficulty in convincing people that pensioners are not being well treated. 
Let me refer to another point in  Senator Collings'  speech. He stated that not one person depending on work for his livelihood should be permitted to enter Australia so long as a single person in the Commonwealth is unemployed. In the most prosperous times in Australia some people have been out of work.  Senator Collings'  statement, if carried to its logical conclusion, means that there will never be any more immigration to Australia. My own experience in this connexion may be worth recounting. As a young man I was among thousands of others who migrated from South Australia to Western Australia. .But there were unemployed in Perth then and according to  Senator Collings'  reasoning, the people of Western Australia, at that time numbering only 40,000, should have denied ns the right to settle there until the unemployed had been removed from the labour market. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.But the honorable senator actually said it. However, I must resist the temptation to follow that theme further.  Senator Collings  endeavoured to lure Commonwealth electors into more experiments with State enterprise. This generation of electors will never forget the Commonwealth Government's experience with the Cockatoo Island dockyard, which showed a loss of £60,000 a year when conducted as a Commonwealth, enterprise, while the number of men employed there was steadily dwindling. The Government leased the dockyard to much despised, derided and abused private enterprise. The result is that the Government's losses are at an end; it receives a rental for the dockyard; the employees receive good wages and work under the same conditions as previously; the concern itself pays a dividend; and the number of men employed there to-day is double the number employed under Commonwealth control. 

 Senator Brand mentioned the need for developing the market in New Zealand for Australian citrus fruits. That is still a subject of negotiation with the Government of the dominion. 

 Senator Cooper stressed the need for assistance to the air medical services being carried out by the Australian Inland Mission in north-western Queensland. I suggest that Queensland itself has a duty in this regard, and I remember that, not so long ago, the Commonwealth was severely rapped over the knuckles by State governments for interfering in health matters. "We were abruptly told by representatives of State governments - I do not doubt that  Mr. Forgan  Smith, the Premier of Queensland was among them - that the Commonwealth was too ready to interfere in matters which properly were the functions of State governments, and, in regard to health administration, we were told to " keep off the grass ". As a result there was a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers and a line of demarcation was drawn between Commonwealth and State functions. It was agreed that the health of the people was definitely the responsibility of State governments, but that the Commonwealth laboratories should be utilized for research. Therefere, the provision of health facilities for the people in north-western Queensland is definitely the responsibility of the Queensland Government. I understand that the district covered by the air medical services referred to by  Senator Cooper  is represented by a State Minis ter, so the needs of the Australian Inland Mission, as regards air transport, should be well known to the State Government. The Commonwealth provides the air medical services in the Northern Territory. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is so, but whenever the Cloncurry service is availed of for residents in the Northern Territory the Department of the Interior pays for it on a mileage basis. I agree with  Senator Cooper  about the desirableness of an extension of this valuable service, and I submit that the State Government should do for the people in northwestern Queensland what the Commonwealth is doing in the Northern Territory. However, I shall bring his request under the notice of the Minister for the Interior. 
I shall direct the attention of the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  to the remarks made by  Senator Payne  with regard to the export of apples and pears. Some assistance is provided for in this year's Estimates, and we can discuss that matter when we are dealing with budget expenditure. 

 Senator Grant dealt with the operation of the sales tax and also the effect of Customs duties on primary industries.  His  representations will be brought under the notice of the responsible Ministers. The Minister in Charge of Development  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  will, I am sure, bring to the notice of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research the suggestion that investigation should be made into the possibility of manufacturing light metals in Australia. The anomalies in the administration of the sales tax, mentioned by  Senator Leckie,  will be brought under the notice of the Assistant Treasurer. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
[5.8]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
With two exceptions to which I shall direct the attention of honorable senators, this Supply Bill is based on the budget provision for last year. It makes provision for a period of two months from the 1st October, 1935, and the amount appropriated is £4,531,540. Included in this amount are the following sums for ordinary services: - 

<graphic href="147332193510025_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amounts included in this bill are for essential services and, together with the amounts appropriated in the last Supply Act, involve a rate of expenditure which is not greater than that provided for in the previous year's appropriation or the current year's Estimates. 
In order to meet the additional expenditure in connexion with the increase of salaries consequent on the rise of the cost of living index figure, which operated from the 1st July, 1935, provision has been made in this bill for salaries at a higher rate than that covered by the appropriation of last year. There is also provision for increases of salary due to the restoration of salaries of public servants, particulars of which have already been announced in connexion with the budget proposals. Payment of the increases will not, however, be made until parliamentary sanction has been obtained. 
In accordance with the usual practice, provision has been made for "refunds of revenue " and " advance to the Treasurer ", the amounts set down being £200,000 and £500,000 respectively. As honorable senators are aware, the latter provision is necessary to meet miscellaneous and unforeseen requirements, and also to permit of the carrying on of uncompleted works in progress at the 30th June, 1935. and other urgent and essential works. The advance is also required to cover payments of grants to the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania, which, pending parliamentary authority, for which separate bills will be submitted, are being continued at the rate appropriated last year. 
Except to the extent that I have already indicated, no provision is made in this Supply Bill for any new expenditure or for any departure from existing policy. 
The Estimates for the current year have already been tabled and honorable senators will have full opportunity later to consider in detail all items covered by this Supply Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
I shall be obliged if the Minister in Charge of Development  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  will inform me whether any provision has been made for scientific investigation of road-making processes. This is a matter of much interest to Queensland, where distances are great, and road-making is a. costly business. I understand that experiments have been carried out in New South Wales for the surfacing of roads by what is commonly called a baking process, and I should like to know if the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has given any attention to this matter. Roads through the black soil plains of Queensland are excellent in fine weather, but immediately rain falls they become almost impassable. It has occurred to me that if scientific investigations of the ingredients of that soil were made, it might be possible to discover a process which would enable roadsthat would be passable in all weathers tobe constructed at considerably less cost than at present. 
The investigation suggested by  Senator Brown  is somewhat outside the functions of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. A few years ago, the Development Branch conducted experiments in the Northern Territory with the result that what may be described as a baking process was introduced for road construction in certains areas there. I understand that it proved satisfactory. There is no provision in the Estimates this year for an investigation on the lines suggested by the honorable senator, but I shall ascertain definitely what was the result of the previous experiments carried out in the Northern Territory by the Development Branch, and let the honorable gentleman know. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without, requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 Having had an opportunity to study this bill, the second reading of which the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  moved earlier this afternoon, I am obliged to state that I do not appreciate the Minister's statements concerning its intentions and effect. He said that increased Ministerial duties justified the appointment of an additional Minister, but as the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  is now performing the work of the Treasurer, and, I think, very efficiently, this proposal will not afford any relief. I have no objection to the Government rewarding that gentleman for the ability he has shown by promoting him to portfolio rank, but the volume of work will not be decreased hy altering the status of one Minister. The only effect of the Government's proposal will be to leave the Prime Minister without a portfolio, because it is not suggested that the right honorable gentleman is to undertake additional work when  Mr. Casey  is appointed Treasurer. Perhaps it would be unkind to refer to the fact that for months past there has 
Deen  so little work for Ministers to do that several of them have spent months in travelling to all parts of the globe. Perhaps in time we. shall obtain details concerning these jaunts, their cost, and the value to Australia of the investigations upon which they have been engaged. Although I have always objected to long recesses, I do not suggest that Cabinet does not meet while Parliament is not sitting. Cabinet has met from time to time, and one meeting was even held in Perth. I do not think that it has yet met in Brisbane, but perhaps that is something iu store for the people of Queensland. It is obvious that an additional Minister is being appointed, not because of the pressure of business, but in order to reward  Mr. Casey.  I am not quarrelling with the Government on that account, because I realize that his services deserve some recognition. During the last election campaign members of the Government made numerous promises to the electors, one of which was that immediate steps would be taken to solve the problem of unemployment. The Government also proposed to appoint a. Minister to deal with employment, and we should all have been pleased had a new department under the direction of a full-time Minister been established for that purpose. Instead of  Sir Frederick  Stewart joining the Cabinet in that capacity, as was expected, he was given the position of a glorified under-secretary. He is now on the other side of the world carrying out certain investigations in an honorary capacity, which is somewhat unusual. Economy will not be effected by the adoption of the proposal contained in this bill, and I object to such unnecessary expenditure, particularly at a time when money could be expended in other directions. When the Lyons Government first assumed office, the salaries of Ministers remained at the statutory amount, but four Assistant Ministers were paid out of the ministerial pool. To-day five Assistant Ministers are paid from that pool. The bill provides for the retention of four Assistant Ministers; but, as an additional £1,320 is now to be added to the ministerial pool each Minister will, apart from the partial restoration proposed under another measure, receive an additional £100 annually. The extra amount which it is proposed to pay Ministers is not extravagant, because a labourer is, in my opinion, always worthy of his hire. The allowances paid to Ministers and members are not unduly high, but I protest against the Leader of the Senate supporting this bill with 'reasons which will not bear a close analysis. The Government will still consist of the same number  of  Ministers,  but  an Assistant Minister is to be elevated to full ministerial rank. In 1931, when another government was in office, the present Leader of the Senate said that, in the interests of economy, Australia should not have ministerial representation at the disarmament conference.  Senator Abbott  has a motion on the notice-paper, the object of which is to bring about a better understanding between nations; but apparently the Minister, who objected to Australia being represented at the disarmament conference, does not consider that desirable. It is essential that the people should know that an analysis of the bill discloses that the reasons given by the Government for its introduction are not the real ones. If it we're desired to relieve Ministers of additional work we should have been asked to appropriate sufficient only to cover the difference between the salary of an Assistant Minister and that of a Minister with a portfolio. It has been introduced to increase the amount available in the ministerial pool, so that a larger emolument may be paid to every Minister. If money is available, it should be expended in restoring pensions to£l a week, and in making a full restoration of public servants' salaries. I am prepared to accept the measure of restoration of the allowances to public servants and members of Parliament which the Government proposes to make. I oppose  the  bill. 
I cannot agree that  Senator Collings  possesses the analytical faculty to any great extent or that Ministers who have been overseas recently can  fairly  be accused  of  joy-riding  at  the expense of the taxpayers. One does not require to be a Minister to know something of the difficult nature of their mission, or to experience a sense of relief at not having  had  to share their task. 
In discussing this bill I do not propose to  indulge in  personalities. That  Mr. Casey  is the Minister whom it is  intended  to promote has very little to do with the subject  before  us. Thepoint is that it  is desired  that the Assistant Treasurer shall, in future, have the full portfolio of Treasurer, and be paid in accordance with the responsible nature of his duties, and there  is  no provision  in  the existing law by which that can be done. 
When this bill was introduced into the House of Representatives I endeavoured to ascertain what payments had been made to Ministers  in  the past. It may be news, even to  Senator Collings,  that under the Constitution Act provision was made for the payment of £12,000 per annum among seven Ministers. The amount now proposed to be paid to ten Ministers is £13,560 per annum, or £1,560 more than was provided 35 years ago. Obviously, if the slightly increased sum now proposed to be paid is divided between a greater number of Ministers, each will receive less than was paid when this Parliament was established. The amount set aside for the salaries of Ministers was increased to £15,300 per annum in 1917. but in 1931  it  was reduced to £11,857 10s. with a further reduction to £10,710 in 1932. The amount was restored up to £12,240 in 1933. The slightly increased amount now proposed for the remuneration of Ministers does not take into consideration the increasedcost of living since 1901, and a number of other factors. 
HUGHES.- I wish that the Government would declare openly the amount paid to every Minister, Assistant Minister and Honorary Minister as well as to each Whip. I can see no reason whatever why the amount paid to each person who shares in the amount provided for Ministers should be withheld from the general public. Secrecy in such matters gives rise to curiosity and causes unnecessary, and sometimes adverse, comment. There may be reasons, which I cannot imagine, for the present practice; but,  in  my opinion, the result of disclosing information of this kind would be to emphasize that certain Ministers are very much underpaid. 
Let us contrast the treatment of private members of this Parliamentwith  that  accorded to Ministers. Thefirst Parliament contained 111 members, each of whom was paid £400 per annum, or a total of  £44,400.  A proposal -which will be brought before the Senate in a few days will seek to appropriate the sum of  £94,350  for the payment of members. Is  Senator Collings  consistent in objecting to an increase of  £1,560  in  35  years to Ministers when he himself is sharing in an annual increase of nearly  £50,000?  Undoubtedly, Ministers have been called upon to perform greatly increased work during recent years. Some of us who believe that the Commonwealth has invaded provinces which it was not intended to occupy may not entirely approve of the reasons for that additional work. Certain fields of taxation which were entered by the Commonwealth in times of emergency have not since been vacated. The Constitution reserved to the States the control of the health of the people, but the Commonwealth has entered into competition with the States in this connexion because of its control of quarantine and the power of its purse. Moreover, activities which were unknown  35  years ago are now under Commonwealth control. So far as I understand the legal position, the Commonwealth has no power to deal with aviation or wireless matters ; but it is operating in those fields. 
Another reason why the work of Ministers has become greater is the tendency to indulge in socialistic enterprises. Legislation, in which our party has not been the prime mover, has been passed on the assumption, that governments are better able to control certain industries than are those who have grown up in them. 
 I support the remarks of  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  particularly the suggestion that instead of the present method of pooling the allowances of Ministers of State, the Government should consider the desirability of making available to the general public information concerning the actual salaries paid to full Ministers, honorary Ministers, and ministerial whips. If that were done, the people would be able to assess the various executive positions at their true worth. Like  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  I have taken out certain facts; though many of my facts are parallel with his, the honorable senator has not attempted to compare the salaries paid to executives in Australia with those paid in a country of comparable resources. I find that in Canada the Prime Minister, under a statute of  1923,  receives a total remuneration of  15,000  dollars a year. That dominion, whose problems are very similar to our own, has found it necessary to have a cabinet of not merely ten Ministers, but eighteen full executives and three assistants. Not only the total remuneration, of the Canadian Cabinet, but also the specific amount paid to each Minister is disclosed. According to the  1934  figures the total amount provided in Canada was not  £15,000  or  £13,000,  but  £42,000.  But immediately it is proposed to recognize our executives by a slightly increased remuneration the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  attempts to decry their worth. I say frankly that the Prime Minister of this country, whatever his political creed, is shamefully underpaid. When we consider what Ministei'3 holding a portfolio have to give up in commercial life, and  the tremendous strain imposed on them by their official duties, we must recognize that they, too, are inadequately paid. Compare their positions with that of a well-known general manager of a certain bank. Is he paid £1,500 or £1,600 a year, with the prospect of being booted out of office at the end of three years? No, that institution recognizes his worth by paying him £5,000 or £6,000 a year. Contrast the position of a Cabinet Minister with that of the man in charge of the Ford interests in Australia. Does that man receive £1,500 or £1,800 a year? No, he is paid £5,000 a year. The executives of big organizations and commercial concerns in Australia receive three or four times the amount paid to Ministers of the Commonwealth. When Ministers accept office they have to put aside all prospect of reward from commerciallife and accept all the insecurity associated with politics. Instead of voting merely £13,000 for ministerial allowances, we should double the amount. I cordially support the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.57 to8 p.m. 

I propose to offer brief criticisms of several aspects of the budget. The speech of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  in my opinion, lacked warmth, and when honorable senators study the budget I believe that they will share my belief in his restraint. There are many good features about the budget, but, to say the least of it, I view it in its entirety with feelings akin to those that some honorable senators would experience should they hear a rendering on the favorite musical instrument of the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  - -thebagpipes. This budget will go down in the annals of the Commonwealth as the " Ca'canny budget ", because it contains a wide strain of conservatism in respect of what are termed the total taxation adjustments andthe details of the estimated revenue. During the last six years the Commonwealth and State Governments have passed through an anxious time, and that they should continue to exhibit a depression complex is not a matter for wonder. My opinion is that the worst of the depression is over. Sometimes after we have gone through a disagreeable experience a good hard push will completely rid us ofthe last of its effects. If the Government, in bringing down this budget, had given a slightly sterner push it might have dispelled the depression complex altogether. Special points to which I shall allude are the comparative statistics of revenue during the past few years, and the estimated returns for the current financial year. So much is lacking in the Estimates that my term, the " Ca'canny budget ", is justified. 
In the opulent State of New South Wales, the Government Statistician,  Mr. Waites,  has compiled returns which are indicative of the progress that Australia is making towards recovery. The statistics show that Australia is definitely on the up-grade financially. Employment has increased, factory output is higher, the registration of motor vehicles is rapidly approaching the peak level of 1930, the Stock Exchange is buoyant, and railways and tramways are improving their earnings - that is the inspiring record of the return to better times in New South Wales. This cheerful document gives a panorama of the economic life of the State, revealing in practically every activity progressive improvement during the last twelve months. The improvement epitomized represents an increase of work by 21.2 per cent.  Mr. Waites  states - 
In the middle of August, 1935, the number of employees was 312,476 ascompared with 287,271 for the corresponding period of the previous year, and 257,672 in July, 1933. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.These statistics refer to New South Wales, but they illustrate the general trend throughout Australia. The Statistician proceeds - 
The number of motor vehicles registered now is approaching the maximum level reached in March, 1930. At August, 1931, there were 160,000 cars and 50,073 lorries and vans The weekly average number of new cars registered was 336 in August, 1935, compared with 201 and 111 on the same dates in 1934 and 1033 respectively. 
The building trade, always a reliable barometer, reveals similar progress. The value of city and suburban building permits granted in August last was £78S,943, as against £596,583 in August, 1934. The average monthly value for the first eight months of the current year was £793,000, as compared with £439,000 and £242,000 in the corresponding periods of 1934 and 1933 respectively. 

 Mr. "Waites proceeds then to deal with bank clearings, which are 84 per cent, of the pre-depression average. "Wholesale trade has increased, and the retail sales were 11.1 per cent, higher than in July of last year. The railway figures in every department disclose an improvement on last year, and the same optimistic tale can be told of gas and electricity concerns and stock exchange business generally. Another extract from  Mr. "Waites'  report reads - 
The tremendous increase in building activities can be gauged from the following comparison: - 1932 - Total figures for the State, £2,657,359; 1933, £4,362,114; 1935, £8,306,870. 
The vice-president of the Master Builders Association,  Mr. James  "Wall, when commenting on the Government Statistician's report, mentioned that the brickyards are back to the output of the old days. This is one of the most reliable indications of improved economic conditions. The brickyards have almost reached their maximum output, and few plasterers and bricklayers are out of work.  Mr. "Wall  added - 
Perhaps the reserve of skilled men was never «s low as at present owing to the restriction in the appointment of apprentices during the depression years. 
Turning to the exports, I find again another large increase in the business of New South Wales. It is estimated that in the first quarter of 1935-36 ships will have brought imports to New South Wales of a value of £9,131,000 and loaded exports worth £7,245,630. These figures are respectively £700,000 and £1,200,000 above those for the corresponding period of last year which was regarded as being phenomenal. The value of hides and skins sent abroad has in creased considerably. That is conclusive proof of the better conditions obtaining in New South Wales. 
In contrast to this cheerful testimony, the budget strikes a dismal note, which is unwarranted in view of the facts previously mentioned. The only department displaying any optimism at all is that of the Postmaster-General's, which estimates an increase of revenue. The other departments apparently labour under the impression that Australia is going backwards instead of forward. The Premier of Western Australia  (Mr. P. Collier)  characterized the budget which he introduced several weeks ago as an effort which might be termed restrained optimism. He predicted that Western Australia would continue to make progress, and in his confidence, abolished as from the 1st January, 1936, the reductions made in civil service salaries under the financial emergency legislation. In contrast to this restrained optimism in Western Australia, the Commonwealth Government is restoring a trifling 2-J- per cent, of the amounts by which the salaries of the Federal Public Service had been reduced. This restoration is a mere bagatelle, and reveals, not restrained optimism, but rather suppressed optimism. I shall allude to several items in the budget-papers to illustrate my argument. The tables relating to customs taxation, shows that the revenue estimated from vehicles for 1935-36 is £1,250,000 as against £1,335,657 received last year, and £657,000 in 1933-34, which was admittedly a bad year indeed. How these figures are compiled, I do not know, but they do not reflect optimism regarding the importation of motor vehicles during the next twelve months. In respect of ales, spirits and beverages, the estimated increase of revenue is a paltry £11,000. The receipts last year were £1,0S9,000, and the estimate for the current year is £1,100,000. In my opinion the firm market for our wool overseas, the hardening in wheat prices, and the more or less satisfactory values for other exportable products do not justify this pessimism - rather the opposite. The estimate of revenue from tobacco and manufactures thereof actually shows a reduction as compared with the receipts last year; possibly the remission of tobacco duties accounts for this. Nevertheless, having regard to the fact that the depression is being left behind, the estimate is undoubtedly conservative. That criticism applies also to the estimates in respect of drugs and chemicals. The customs revenue from hides, leather and rubber, presumably the bulk of this item represents rubber, as the importation of hides and raw leather must be limited, is expected to show a falling off of £10,000. The Estimates as a whole do not constitute an enthusiastic budget. 
The Government proposes to reduce by a further 1 per cent, the special tax on income from property, That tax should be abolished entirely. The proposed further sales tax exemptions, amounting to £150,000, might very well be increased, thus relieving taxpayers of an onerous burden which they have been carrying since the depression. 
I was very pleased to learn that the Commonwealth grant to Western Australia this year had been increased by £200,000. When submitting his budget for the current year, the State Premier based his figures on the receipt, from the Commonwealth, of £600,000, the amount received last year, and budgeted for a deficit of £255,000, so the additional sum will be most welcome and should enable him to almost balance his accounts. The Premier is, indeed, fortunate, and lias, I think, well earned the sobriquet of "Phillip the Fortunate," which was bestowed upon him in the State Parliament on another occasion when he made an announcement that gave general satisfaction. I compliment the Government upon its treatment of the State which I assist to represent in this chamber, and I hope that it will be possible, next year, still further to increase the grant. 
During the parliamentary recess I visited the north-west of Western Australia, making the journey by steamer owing to the lack of rail communication and the unsatisfactory means of land transport, and travelled as far north as the latitude of Cairns, in Queensland. In my interviews with local residents, I learned that there was much dissatisfaction with the present air mail services. I, therefore, hope that the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J'.  McLach- 
Ian) will give careful attention to the requests which have come before him in connexion with this matter. The excellent shipping and rail facilities on the Queensland coast have aided the development of the fertile lands of the northern littoral, but the same progress cannot very well be expected in the north-west of Western Australia, because the climatic and other conditions are not comparable. The people there depend very largely upon the efficiency of the air transport and mail services, and I had ample evidence of the necessity for a definite improvement in this respect, especially since the inauguration of the flying doctor service in the north-western portion of that State. The air mail services might very well be duplicated as far north as Broome. At present the mail from the north-west arrives in Perth on Saturday at midday and the returning plane leaves Perth early on Sunday morning, so that merchants and others who may be commissioned to supply various commodities are unable to execute their orders until the. following week. The postal facilities in the north-west are also far from satisfactory on account of the trying climatic conditions under which the people there are living. 
During the recess I also paid my first visit to Queensland, and was greatly impressed by the fertility of the soil and the stage of development that had been reached in the northern part of that State due largely to bountiful rains, good rivers and sea ports. The north-west of Western Australia suffers by comparison because, unfortunately, it possesses about, half a dozen streams which flow for only a few weeks every year. When asked by the people of North Queensland what I thought of their country, I had no hesitation in telling them that I thought they were extremely fortunate, and added that all Queenslanders should look with a kindly eye upon fellow Australians who were struggling to make a living under trying conditions in the  semitropical  climate of North- Western Australia. 

 Senator Brown yesterday quoted with obvious pride the employment position in Queensland, and spoke in laudatory terms of the State Labour Government. I agree with the honorable senator that Queensland is in a fortunate position, but I must add that during my visit to that State I discovered that Government supporters lost no opportunity to tell every visitor of the outstanding virtues of their Government. I would, therefore, suggest that  Senator Brown  and his Queensland colleagues should not, in their references to the position in the northern State, give undue credit to successive Labour governments which have reigned there. A benign Providence has done much for Queensland. My observations convinced me that the State has developed so satisfactorily, not because it has for so many years been controlled by Labour, but in spite of that fact. I suggest also that Queensland owes no inconsiderable part of its success as a primary-producing State to the patience of taxpayers in other States. From my own State, for instance, we are being inundated with requests from responsible, municipal and other local governing bodies to do all in our power to abolish the sugar agreement. Thus it might be as well if our Queensland friends in this chamber took heed of what is being said in other States concerning Queensland's major industry. 
I hope that the Postmaster-General will give earnest consideration to my representations with reference to the postal facilities in the north-western portion of my State, and do what is possible to improve the air mail service. 
I am pleased to know that one of the many clansmen who were recently returned to Parliament, this evening became vocal. 
I promised the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  this afternoon that I would not ignore his representations relating to the production of oil in Australia. Honorable senators will, I believe, acknowledge that the Government has shown its sincerity in this matter, because for some considerable time it has been engaged in an examination of a number of proposals that have been placed before it. It is generally agreed that, in order to ensure the security of this country in times of emergency, no effort should be spared to make 
Australia independent of foreign supplies of oil. I do not propose to debate at length the statement by  Senator Collings  that the Government's desire is to encourage private enterprise to engage in the business of oil production, but I remind him that when the Scullin Government set aside a certain sum of money for the development of oil from shale in New South Wales, it limited the amount to be expended and stipulated that when the preliminary examinations had proved the feasibility of the scheme, it should be handed over to private enterprise. 
There are three sources of possible supply of oil in Australia. I do not desire to deal with the history of flow oil investigations. It will be sufficient to say that we have spent a considerable amount of money in conjunction with State governments on a pound for pound basis in assisting various enterprises to examine likely prospects in various parts of Australia. We have also enlisted the support of  Sir John  Cadman,  chairman  of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, which is a partner of the Commonwealth in Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited.  Sir John  Cadman realizes the need for Australia to be independent of foreign supplies, and some time ago placed at our disposal the services of two distinguished geologists, one of whom is still making an examination of prospects in this country. As to the possibility of securing flow oil, encouraging results have been obtained at Lakes Entrance in Victoria. We realize the transcendent importance to Australia of the production of oil to meet the nation's need in time of emergency, and we have done everything that could be expected of any government to make Australia independent of foreign supplies. In the House of Representatives this afternoon, the Prime Minister stated that the Government had decided to provide a further incentive to oil production by exempting petrol derived from Australian coal or shale from excise duty for a period of five years. 
Yesterday  Senator Foll  addressed a question to me relating to some recent experiments in the production of synthetic petrol as reported in the newspapers of  yesterday's date, and I informed him that the information in the hands of the Government indicated that there was nothing in this process. However, I have given the honorable gentleman an undertaking that the Commonwealth Fuel Adviser will be asked for a report upon the subject. 
Two practical schemes for the production of oil in Australia have been engaging the attention of the Government. One is known as the Newnes shale oil project, which was initiated by the Scullin Government a few years ago. Any honorable senator who thinks that the Government can solve such a complex problem as the extraction of oil from coal or shale by merely forming a company, and without the assistance of experts, is mistaken. During 1933 a most exhaustive examination was conducted by the most highly skilled officers of the Commonwealth Government and of the Government of New South Wales, and their report was closely examined by  Mr. Vincent,  acting for the New South Wales Government, and by myself, as the representative of the Commonwealth Government. After conferring with the Premier of New South Wales, we came to the conclusion that there were certain factors, particularly in connexion with the cracking, which needed further investigation, and which are too technical for me to attempt to explain at this juncture. Having grappled with the problem for some years, I understand some of its complexities; but I should not like to be asked to explain them. The Government, however. decided to send on a second visit to the United States of America,  Mr. Rogers,  the Commonwealth fuel expert, an Australian who had been abroad, and who had been assisted by the science endowment fund. The Government expects to receive his report shortly. Any practical person visiting the Newnes Valley, and seeing the huge deposits of shale, which yields 100 gallons of oil to the ton, would naturally say that something should be done. I have spent several strenuous years on this problem, and after conferring with  Sir John  Cadman, I suggested that he should, visit the Newnes and other shale deposits which I mentioned. Having made an inspection, he said that the problem was far too complex for him to solve. He offered, however, to send to Australia at the expense of his company two gentlemen skilled in the mining, handling and cracking of Scottish shales. These gentlemen, Messrs. Crichton and Conacher, spent a considerable time, not only in the Newnes Valley, but also in the Latrobe field in Tasmania, and on other fields in New South Wales. The Government was anxious to ascertain the yields from the Newnes deposits and those in the Capertee Valley adjoining. Having regard to certain variations in the figures supplied, I forwarded the report of  Mr. Crichton  and  Mr. Conacher  to the Newnes Committee for its comments. I understand that honorable senators have seen the report of the Newnes Committee, and I feel that the estimated costs for social services at the Newnes field, which total £107,000, are excessive. I do not think that the miners expect the standard of comfort which the Newnes Committee contemplated and which  Mr. Crichton  and  Mr. Conacher  accepted in their calculations. The suggestion was to establish a corporation with a capital of £600,000, and a recommendation of the Newnes Committee was that the Federal Government should, on the production of petrol, waive excise amounting to £115,000 per annum, and also contribute £150,000 with the Government of New South Wales, which was to provide half of the capital, in order to safeguard the interests of the taxpayers. The report of Messrs. Crichton and Conacher is now in the hands of the Newnes Committee, and at an early date it is proposed again to take up the matter with the New South Wales Government. Honorable senators opposite who may be under the impression that the Government is not doing anything should remember that we have been making sure of our ground before proceeding further, because, if we fail on this occasion, production of oil from Newnes shale will be doomed for half a century. 
There is a third process to which I desire to make a brief reference. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  thinks that there is some magic in the words "low temperature carbon- ization ". But I may explain that under that process one ton of coal would produce only five gallons of oil. The yields from Greta coal - and these are better than are obtained in England - would be: - Coke 14 cwt., tar 32 gallons, gas 35 thermes, and petrol 5 gallons a ton. It will therefore be seen that fairly large quantities of coke, tar and gaswould be produced for which there is only a limited market. When the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  was speaking on the subject I asked, by interjection, the purpose for which tar could be used and he said for road construction. 
The honorable senator proceeded to say that a tremendous quantity of the tar which the gas companies produced is used for that purpose, but I understand that such companies are finding it exceedingly difficult to dispose of the unadulterated tar which they produce as it is quite unsuitable for binding roads. Does the honorable senator know that the tar disposed of by gas companies is not produced by the low temperature carbonization but by the high temperature carbonization process? While tar is used to a limited extent for road making, that recovered under the low temperature carbonization process could not be used for the purpose he suggested.  Mr. Rogers  states that - 
The tar to which  Senator Collings  refers is produced by the high temperature carbonization process. The spirit derived from this process is known as benzol the yield being about three gallons to the ton as compared with five gallons of petrol by the low temperature carbonization process. Tar produced in this way from Australian coal is not, however, very suitable for road making. It lacks binding qualities and has to be mixed in the proportions of about 50-50 with imported bitumen. In fact the gas companies of Victoria have great difficulty in disposing of their product. 
I  have  examined the reports of  Sir DavidRivett  after his visit to Germany. The representative of the Commonwealth Government who visited Mittagong, as  Senator Collings  mentioned, was a layman who was naturally attracted by the process of short circuiting the cracking of petrol.  Mr. Rogers,  who has conducted a further examination, has submitted a report to the Government to the effect that further de velopment will have to be undertaken before he can express a definite opinion on the process, and a copy of the report has been despatched to the interested parties. Investigations are also being made by  Dr. Kurth,  of the Tasmanian University, whose knowledge of the subject is second only to that of  Mr. Rogers.  After these two authorities had conferred for a few hours they informed me thatFrench scientists had experimented with the same process 70 years ago. We must walk warily in these matters. As I understand theposition, there is no market for the products of low temperature carbonization of coal. 
The other process mentioned appears to be uneconomic. As in these matters we must be guided by our expert officers, I shall read from a report on the hydrogenation process furnished to me by  Mr. Rogers  - 
Hydrogenation as applied to coal is a process in which the raw material is induced to combine with gaseous hydrogen under conditions of high temperature and pressure.In successive stages the coal is progressively converted into a heavy oil, lighter oils, and finally petrol. In the first stage, powdered coal is admixed with heavy oil to form a paste which can be pumped. In contact with hydrogen at a temperature of 430 degrees Centigrade and a pressure of 250 atmospheres, the coal is reduced to a heavy liquid, part of which is returned to the paste mixers. The remainder passes forward to the second stage converters, in which it is reduced under similar conditions to a light oil. The third and last section of the plant treats the light oil in the vapour phase, converting it completely into motospirit. 
Of the original coal substance, some 00 per cent, is ultimately recovered as petrol, 10 per cent, reappears as water and ammonia, and 20 per cent, approximately is converted into gas, which may be used as the source of the hydrogen required for the process. In addition to the coal actually hydrogenated, considerable quantities are consumed in raising steam, generating power, and heating furnaces for the operation of the plant. The yield of finished petrol is rather less than 25 per cent, by weight of the coal used for all purposes, or approximately 80 gallons per ton. Each ton of coal treated produces about 200 gallons of petrol, but about another ton and a half of coal per ton of coal treated is used for power and heat requirements, &amp;c, so that 21/2 tons are required for the purposes of treatment to yield about 200 gallons. 
The type of coal preferred for conversion into motor spirit by this method is that commonly used for gas making. Such coals give the highest yield of petrol with the minimum consumption of hydrogen. Coal' from the Greta seam in New South Wales is admirably suited to the purpose. Brown coals also can be  hydrogenated,  but it is still uncertain whether the low cost of this raw material is sufficient to compensate for the inferior yields and increased operating expenses. 
The plant erected by Imperial Chemical Industries at Billingham-on-Tees has a capacity of 45,000,000 gallons of petrol per annum, which will be produced mainly from Durham coal, but partly from creosote and tar. 
While  Mr. Rogers  was in England conferring with the Scottish shale oil experts, lie had an opportunity to examine the works at Billingham-on-Tees in the early stages of their construction ; but so rapid was the advance made by science that before the building was completed radical changes had to be made in it. The report continues - 
Foi- several years now, Germany has been producing about 30 million gallons of motor spirit annually by the hydrogenation of brown coal tars and petroleum residues. More recently, brown coal itself has been used as the raw material for the process, and it is now understood that the output of the plant is to be increased fourfold in the near future. 
Hydrogenated  spirit prepared from coal and tar requires practically no refining, and is of excellent quality. The process is sufficiently flexible to permit the production of petrol to any reasonable specification. The equipment and machinery employed are of a special nature and highly expensive. In order that overhead costs may be kept within bounds, a large output is essential. It is considered in England that the capacity of the smallest possible economic plant is 45,000,000 gallons of petrol per annum, consuming about 000,000 tons of coal for all purposes. 
The cost of constructing the plant in Aus tralia would be about from £8,000.000 to £10,000,000 (Aust.), and on present indications it is thought that the cost of production of petrol would be about ls. Id. per gallon. Imperial Chemical Industries is hoping to produce at  Billingham-on-Tees  at about 7d. per gallon. The difference between this figure and that quoted in regard to Australia is made up by increased capital and working costs. 
On the basis of the Newnes Committee's report, the production of petrol from shale would give direct employment to only about 421 men, whereas under the hydrogenation process it is estimated that direct employment would be provided for 3,500 workers, in addition to about 1,000 coal-miners. Those in charge of the ex- periments at Billingham-onTees will not be in a position to give a considered report for some time. Imperial Chemical Industries has placed at the disposal of the Commonwealth Government all the information in its possession, and, in addition, has allowed our technicians to examine its plant. It is also watching developments in Australia in order to learn what may be possible here in the future. One of the directors of the company is now in Australia, and I hope to confer with him shortly. I suggest that Australia would be wise to await the result of the experiments being conducted elsewhere, and I warn honorable senators not to accept too readily the information contained in cabled advices from other countries. Statements that large quantities of petrol or crude oil obtained by the new process have been supplied to the British Navy and other users have been published from time to time, whereas these products have in fact been obtained from tar. The results of the experiments which have been conducted do not justify the heavy expense of setting up in Australia plant to extract oil from coal. Only persons skilled in the production of oil by various methods can hope to handle propositions of this kind successfully. 
No* ; but the plant at Billingham-on-Tees has been altered on more than one occasion in an effort to keep pace with the advance of science. Although Australia would not be justified in incurring heavy expenditure in installing expensive plant at this juncture, it appears to me that in this or some similar process lies the hope of the Australian coal-raining industry. I assure honorable senators that developments are being carefully watched by the Government, and those engaged in experimental work in Australia have been encouraged by the promise of relief from excise duty if they produce petrol on a commercial basis from coal. More than that I cannot say now. What the future holds for Newnes or for those interested in the hydrogenation process it is impossible to say at this stage. 
I compliment the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  not only on the information contained in the budget, but also on the able and lucid manner in which he presented the Government's financial proposals for the current financial year. Lite other budgets, the one before us is merely an estimate, and the figures are subject to adjustment because of varying seasonal conditions, and the fluctuations of the flow of trade within Australia and with other countries. The budget is welcome in that it indicates a return to prosperity; nevertheless, it has not received the unanimous endorsement of all political parties. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has designated it " a rich man's budget ", and has inferred that the supporters of the Government should be well satisfied with it. The chief criticism of the budget by persons outside Parliament is that it does not provide the relief from taxation that was expected. The task of estimating a nation's revenue and expenditure is not easy, especially at the present time, when conditions throughout the world are so unsettled. During the Great War, practically every European nation contracted financial obligations which have not yet been discharged, and consequently it has been faced with the difficult task of meeting its obligations and of keeping its own people employed. Nations have tried to become as self-supporting as possible. The result is that a primary-producing country like Australia, finds that many of the markets which at one time were open to it are now either closed or greatly restricted. 
In order to secure the necessary finance to carry on its activities, a Government must either borrow money or impose taxation. So long as the people of a country demand from its Government social services and public works, so long will taxation be imposed. In order to remain solvent a country must limit its expenditure to its receipts. Therefore, in the imposition of taxation the Government is very much guided by the demands of the people. In considering the budget, honorable senators naturally deal with those items with which they are most conversant, or which particularly affect the 
State which they represent.. The first item in this budget that looms very large to any representative of South Australia is that relating to the Port Augusta to Red Hill railway. This proposal is the outcome of an agreement made in 1925 between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of South Australia. Whether there is reason to doubt the legality of the agreement I do not know. The Commonwealth Government is quite satisfied that it has a right to construct the railway, but, on the other hand, the Government of South Australia is equally confident that it has a case to place before the High Court to prevent the Commonwealth from going on with that work. I offer no opinion as to the legality of the agreement, but I point out that the conditions which operated in 1925 are somewhat different from those of the present day. It is unnecessary for me to remind honorable senators that in 1925 when the agreement was signed money was just about as plentiful as it is scarce to-day. About that time we had in South Australia a premier who said "What is a million pounds " ? That was indicative of the spirit of the people everywhere. At that period we had gained some experience of railway matters, for South Australia had just expended £11,000,000 to rehabilitate its railway system. But apart from the fact that money was then plentiful, I think honorable senators will agree that methods and means of transportation have changed a good deal since 1925. To-day we have air transport and motor transport to an extent that was unthinkable in 1925. The figures I am about to quote will, I think, give some indication of what  I  mean. They show that the East- West railway does not warrant any new expenditure upon it at the present time; in fact, expenditure on maintenance work is all that can be expected. In 1929, the number of passengers on that line was 31,109; in 1930, traffic dropped to 26,650 ; in 1933, it went down to 13,905; and in 1934, to 13,820. That gives a very clear indication that methods of transportation are altering; probably on account of the depression people were not travelling to such an extent as formerly, but those who did travel used a different mode of transport to and from Western Australia. During the last  six months, the proposed railway between Port Augusta and Bed Hill has been a highly controversial subject, and we have heard different arguments put forward as to why the line should be built. Of course, when the agreement came before the South Australian Parliament in 1925 there was only one cry - " Standardization of all railways " ; we were to have only one gauge, and the conversion to 4-f I.  8½-ins.  was to be effected at a cost of £21,000,000. If the standardization of the line between Brisbane and Perth were contemplated the sensible thing would be to start at one end and carry the work right through to the other end, and not to start in the middle. The need for speeding up transport has also been mentioned. It has been said that if the Bed Hill line were completed and some work were carried out on the line between Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie, approximately nineteen and a half hours would be saved on. the journey between Adelaide and Perth, five and a half hours being saved on the proposed new section between Adelaide and Port Augusta and the balance on the East- West line. Relief of unemployment is another reason advanced in support of this proposal. If the purposes be employment of the workless and quicker transportation, would not the Commonwealth Government be better advised to carry out the necessary work on that section of the line between Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie in order to save twelve hours in travelling time, instead of proposing to spend this money to save five and a half hours over another section of the line? Plenty of work remains to be done between Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie, and if undertaken it would employ more men for probably a longer period than would the conversion of the Red Hill section. The Commonwealth Commissioner for Railways in 1934 said that he intended to lift 3,000 or 4,000 sleepers which constituted a menace to passenger traffic. Since then only about half of those sleepers has been lifted, and now we are told that that is all the work that can be done for the time being. There are about 2,500,000 sleepers on that line, the majority of which have been laid for nearly twenty years, and it can be readily understood that the bulk of them are ready for lifting. A great portion of this line is still unballasted. If it is a matter of speeding up transport and of providing employment, obviously the better course would be to give attention to that portion of the line for the time being. 
Another point is that South Australia does not require this railway; its construction would be of no advantage to that State at the present juncture. Within a distance of 45 miles due east from Port Wakefield, which is situated about 60 miles north-west .of Adelaide, five lines of railway are crossed, four of which run practically parallel with each other. It is one of these lines which the Commonwealth Government proposes to extend. No advantage could accrue to the State from the continuation of any of these lines, because at the present time they are well serving the whole of the surrounding districts. 
Reasons of defence have also been urged in support of the construction of this line. I do not claim to know very much about defence, but the military value of any railway construction policy must always be taken into account. I maintain, without fear of contradiction, that if Australia requires a line for defence purposes it is not one running along the coast-line and therefore open to attack from the sea, but rather one commencing at Sydney and running right through the centre of the continent to Perth. South Australia has too many lines of railways, and it does not want this additional one. Some time ago that State expended £11,000,000 on the rehabilitation of its railways, and the interest on that cost is helping to keep the community poor. The construction of the Red Hill to Port Augusta railway will rob the existing lines in South Australia of revenue amounting to about £60,000 a year. If the Commonwealth persists in building this line, it should be prepared to compensate South Australia for the resultant loss incurred on State railways. A further opportunity will be given to discuss this subject when the budget is under discussion, and when other honorable senators have expressed their opinions I may have more to say on the subject. 
Another matter to which I wish to draw attention is the provision in the budget of £100,000 for "ground organization preliminary to development of air mail services." At this juncture I am not going to commit myself to the establishment of air mail services between the capital cities; but I say that this is a matter of sufficient importance to be placed before this Senate in order that it may be fully debated, and honorable senators given an opportunity to express their views thereon. Such a proposal should not be introduced merely as an item in the budget. If we accept this method, we shall be practically giving to this or any other government the right to establish air mail services between the capital cities at any cost. Part of this expenditure is to be for defence, and to that I do not object. I am of opinion that we cannot do too much in the way of improving our air force. In future wars, whether here or abroad, the air force will probably prove a determining factor. 
I desire now to deal with the Commonwealth grants to be made to the various States. This year the Government proposes to hand to South Australia an amount of £1,500,000. I do not complain of that ; in fact, I think the Government is to be commended for having adopted the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It is regrettable that Parliament does not see fit to adopt more of the reports of commissions which it appoints. Only one thing justifies the appointment of a commission for any purpose, and that is the intention to accept and act upon its report. On this occasion the Government has adopted the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, and South Australia appreciates the further measure of justice that it is to receive. South Australians do not for a moment thank the Commonwealth for giving them this money; they believe that it belongs to them. All the money handed to South Australia by the Commonwealth is money to which the State is entitled, and would have received had the federal compact been complied with as it was prior to 1910. But we would like to see these grants fixed for several years ahead. If that were done State Treasurers would know how to budget for the future. 
A matter which was brought up this afternoon by  Senator Cooper  is well worthy of the consideration of the Government. Through the efforts of the Australian Inland Mission, Birdsville has been connected with Cloncurry, where the flying doctor has his head-quarters. This gives to the people of Birdsvilledirect communication by telegraph or telephone with every centre of the Commonwealth. The Inland Mission is a private organization, but its operations are not limited to one State. From Queensland its activities extend to South Australia. Birdsville is only a short distance over the Queensland border from South Australia. The Inland Mission not only attends to tl] e spiritual needs of the people but is also mindful of their physical disabilities. The enterprise has established a line of hospitals to serve practically the whole of the back country. There are hospitals at Maree, Beltana and Innaminca,  to name only three. Four or five years ago I visited them and to see them is to realize what a wonderful work they  are performing in  the back country. Every possible encouragement should be given to the mission. The establishment of the hospitals and the aerial medical service has given security to human life, and men are now prepared to take their wives and families out to the back-blocks knowing that if the worst comes to the worst they will not be entirely isolated from medical assistance. Instead of giving the Inland Mission only £300 a year the Government should increase the grant to £1,000. No one would begrudge such a practical recognition and appreciation of this effort to develop the vast interior of Australia. 
According to  Senator Collings,  the budget makes no provision for the unemployed. I admit that there is not so much in it as he would have liked to see, and if the country's finances could bear it I would prefer that greater provision be made for the unfortunate people out of -work. Honorable senators supporting the Government are quite as sincerely concerned for the unemployed as are the members of the Opposition. In my opinion the budget is refreshing even on the subject of unemployment. Since 1932 the unemployment total has been reduced by 14 per cent, which is no mean achievement. As we have accomplished this record in three difficult years, we should be able to make even better progress in the ensuing years. The great majority of the people who are being re-employed are returning through the channels of approved trade and industry, which is the right and proper avenue. Everybody detests even the word " dole ". The dole is a drain on revenue and is humiliating to the recipients. But I would prefer that the dole be continued rather than that the Government should borrow large sums of money to be expended on non-reproductive works that will keep the country poor indefinitely. With sane Government and practical legislation, we shall undoubtedly experience improved conditions in the near future. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator DuncanHughes)  adjourned. 
I desire to remind the Leader of the Senate of a deputation which waited upon the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  during the recent visit of the Federal Cabinet to Perth. The deputation, which represented the northeastern wheat districts, included delegates from all the local governing bodies. The deputation had asked permission towait on the Federal Ministry as a whole, in order to bring under the notice of Ministers the alarming crop prospects in that area and to request that a substantial measure of relief be granted. The districts represented are important centres in the Western Australian wheat belt and include Dowerin, Wyalkatchem, Trayning, Koorda, Mount Marshall, Nungarin, and Mukinbudin. Through these districts runs a railway line, constructed under the provisions of the Migration Agreement. The line starts at Amery, so called after the then Secretary of State for the Colonies, and proceeds north and east. Formerly it terminated at Kulja, but was later extended to Bonnie Rock. Under the terms of the Migration Agreement, the Imperial Government bears one-third of the interest on the cost of the work for a number of years, while the Commonwealth and Western Australian Governments bear the remainder of the interest. The spectre of drought has stalked through that portion of the wheat belt as a result of the lateness of the season, Subsequent to the deputation waiting on  Mr. Casey,  I travelled through the district, and the crops over considerable areas showed tardy growth, being at least two months later than usual. In the middle of August many of the crops stood an inch high, which ordinarily is the average growth in June. This deputation requested Commonwealth assistance, including fodder, sustenance, seed wheat, and drought relief in the event of their worst fears being realized. The members of the deputation considered that they had good grounds for seeking this assistance, because of the Commonwealth being a party to the Migration Agreement, and also because of the election promises of the Government for comprehensive rural rehabilitation.  Mr. Casey  received the deputation withhis customary courtesy and thoroughness, and promised to place the detailed representations before Cabinet. For weeks settlers received no response and only when we sent a telegram to the Government was an answer received. I am sorry to say that it was unfavorable. The Federal Government offered no additional assistance. The Government showed no practical appreciation of the farmers' position and no desire to accept any of the responsibility. This afternoon I received the following telegrams on the subject: From the Nungarin Roads Board - 
A large proportion of the crops in district will not be stripped. We urge you to stress to the Federal Government the necessity for the provision of a substantial grant for the drought-stricken north-eastern wheat belt to relieve the distress there. 
From the Mount Marshall Roads Board - 
We urge you to stress the Federal Government the necessity for substantial grant to the drought-stricken north-eastern wheat belt to relieve the distress there. We estimate that 90 per cent, of the crops will not be stripped. 
I may add that those roads boards cover very large areas. 
The assistance is required immediately and is in respect of the coming harvest which, unfortunately will range from very poor crops to complete failures in these districts on account of the had season. From the Mukinbudin Boad Board, I have received this telegram - 
The crop outlook in this district is hopeless. Hay and seed wheat is practically nil and probably 80 per cent, of the harvesters will not bo used. We urge you to seek a special grant for the relief of the drought area. 
These telegrams amply demonstrate that the settlers believe that the Federal Government, as a party to the scheme for the settlement of the district, should bear some of the responsibilities in the present adversity. 
From the point of view of assistance, settlers usually receive more from the ministrations of even the worst State government than from the treatment of the best Commonwealth Government. The Western Australian State Government is already assisting but its resources are limited. The Common wealth Government has done nothing.  Mr. T.  H. Powell,  president  of the Wheat-growers Federation of Western Australia is in Canberra, and after the dinner adjournment he handed to me the following telegram, which he received from the Bonnie Rock-Yangning branch :  - 
Crop position in the north-eastern wheat belt of this State is hopeless. Press urgently for a special federal grant to this State for purposes of relief. The prospects for hay and seed wheat are nil. 

 Mr. Powell informed me that there is almost a complete failure of crops throughout this extensive wheat-growing area which stretches for distances up to 150 miles. 
I urge the Government to provide the special relief immediately, and to recognize its responsibility as a party to the migration agreement. 
It is doing so but the position has become more acute since I left Western Australia a fortnight ago. At the last elections the Country party advocated a policy of rural rehabilitation.  Dr. Earle  Page's speech set out distinctly that settlers who needed assistance to re-establish themselves on the land should receive it. The policy speech delivered by  Senator Pearce  at Jamestown, South Australia, which was published as a ministerial utterance, promised comprehensive rural relief and assistance in practical forms.  Senator Pearce  even mentioned certain directions in which this assistance could be given, but nothing has been done beyond a limited grant for debt adjustment. The Government should give the settlers full assistance and honour their election pledges for rural rehabilitation. The need of these settlers is urgent. The telegrams which I have read show that they hold the Commonwealth Government responsible for their present position because the Commonwealth assisted to open up the areas upon which they settled, and under an agreement with the British Government became responsible for one-third of the interest on the capital cost of the railway line from Amery through Kulja to Bonnie Rock. The Government's policy of rehabilitation will be ineffective if it does not meet this case. 
 I listened with interest to the case presented by  Senator Johnston  on behalf of the settlers in the north-eastern wheat belt of Western Australia, and I shall be equally interested to hear what the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has to say about the position of the Commonwealth Government. If the view put by  Senator Johnston  is to prevail, it would appear that the Commonwealth must accept a heritage in respect of every other project topromote rural development with which it has been associated.  Senator Johnston  has emphasized that the settlers in the north-eastern wheat areas of his State are in dire distress, owing to drought conditions, and he has told us that as they took up their present areas under the migration agreement to which the Commonwealth Government, the State governments and the Government of the United Kingdom were parties, an obligation rests on the Commonwealth to get them out of their present difficulties. May I remind 

 Senator Johnston that a considerable portion of New South Wales also has been developed indirectly through Commonwealth expenditure on roads, and that many settlers are in a bad way owing to unfavorable seasonal conditions ; so perhaps with equal justice I could claim assistance on their behalf. But in my interpretation of Commonwealth and State jurisdictions I have always taken the view that the Commonwealth should be responsible for matters of national concern while State governments should deal with purely domestic affairs. Irrespective of political differences, we ali sympathize with the settlers in the north-eastern wheat belt of Western Australia, and I am sure we would all be glad to help them if we could. But is not the State Labour Government doing something? So far, I have heard no mention of an appeal being made to it for assistance. I am not, for one moment, criticizing  Senator Johnston  for bringing to the notice of the Senate the desperate plight of wheat-growers in his State. All I wish to do is to impress upon him and other honorable senators the fact that the functions of Commonwealth and State governments should be clearly denned. 
[9.35]. - On the 24th September.  Senator Johnston  addressed a question  to  me with reference to a request made in Perth by a deputation to the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  by local governing bodies in the north-eastern wheat districts of Western Australia that special assistance be given to the growers on account of the adverse seasonal conditions.  Senator Johnston  asked what action, if any, the Government intended to take in the matter. In reply, I informed him that the Assistant Treasurer had supplied the following answer: - 
Following the representations of the deputation concerned, the matter was taken up by the Commonwealth with the Western Australian Government. In the first place, inquiries were made to see if there would be any surplus of the acreage or bushel provision which could be used to supplement the hardship grant. 
Unfortunately, it was found that there would he no such surplus available. It was then ascertained that there were certain small unexpended balances oE previous relief payments to Western Australia and the Commonwealth Government approved of these balances being made available for hardship cases. The Commonwealth Government regrets that it finds itself unable to approve special payments for any particular wheat district over and above the amounts provided by Parliament for relief to wheat-growers as a whole. 
Honorable senators will recall that the amount of money voted for the relief of wheat-growers last year was £4,042,000. A portion of the sum was made available on a bushel basis, and a portion on an acreage basis. After claims had been met, there was a surplus of £573,250, which was divided up among the wheatgrowing States to meet cases of hardship, and I believe that the amount made available to Western Australia was £137,000. That sum was distributed through the agency of the Agricultural Bank, which was in a position to determine what districts were entitled to this form of assistance. We are not lacking in sympathy for these unfortunate farmers, who are in their present position through no fault of their own, and it cannot be said that the Commonwealth Government has been unmindful of cases of hardship among the wheat-growers. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. It was intended for assistance in respect of last season's crop. No Commonwealth Government could accept  Senator Johnston's  view that because the Commonwealth assisted a State government in some way in furtherance of its land settlement schemes, it therefore inherited an obligation to come to the assistance of those settlers for all time. Western Australia is not the only State that has received assistance from the Commonwealth and British Governments under the migration agreement of a few years ago. In New South Wales certain works were undertaken with a view to promoting land settlement. Is it to be said that because the Commonwealth cooperated with the Government of New South Wales in connexion with those schemes it must accept responsibility for the future welfare of settlers? Assistance also was given to the Government of South Australia, which carried out a number of works, some under the migration agreement, and some under a special  grant made by the Commonwealth Government, notably the TodRiver water scheme, which made possible an extension of land settlement on Eyre Peninsula. Because of its association with the Government of South Australia in respect of those works is it to be assumed that the Commonwealth is obliged to give relief to settlers in that district, should future seasonal conditions he unfavorable? I do not think that any honorable senator will accept this view. As many honorable senators are, no doubt, aware, there will be a conference of Commonwealth and State representatives in Canberra onFriday, with a view to arranging a definite basis for the wheat policy for this year, and it is hoped that there will be an agreement to fix a home consumption price for wheat. 
I was about to make the same observation. Whether there is to be co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States in a proposal to aid farmers who may not be assisted by a home consumption price will, I imagine, be one of the subjects for discussion at that conference. At this junctureI cannot say what will be the attitude of the Government, but I repeat that the facts show that it has not been unmindful of the plight of wheatgrowers in the various States. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 by leave  - I desire to inform the Senate that the Country party senators, acting at the request of the United  Parliamentary Country party, have appointed me as Leader of that party in the Senate. 
I did read a statement by Captain Johnson, the Controller of Civil Aviation, that the accommodation at Darwin airport was inadequate. I would, however, remind the honorable senator that civil aviation is under the control of the Minister for Defence, and I shall bring the matter under his notice. 
-In view of the statement made last week by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  during the discussion on the ItaloAbyssinian dispute that only a small section of the British Labour party would support the application of sanctions by the League of Nations, has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been directed to the cabled report appearing in this morning's  Canberra Times  that at a conference of the British Labour party, the application of sanctions by the League of Nations was supported by a majority of over 2,000,000 votes? 
Does the Minister know how many members of the British Labour party attended that conference, and is . he aware that the decision to support sanctions was arrived at by card voting ? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
In what countries is it intended that Trade Commissioners for Australia shall be appointed, in addition to those already appointed ? 
When will such appointments be made? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
The Government is at present giving consideration of the desirability of appointing a Trade Commissioner in Egypt. 
It is expected that finality regarding the matter will be reached shortly. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon  notice - 
Will the present Commonwealth Grants Commission recommend to the Government the amounts to be paid to claimant States for the financial year ending the 30th June, 1937? 
If so, will the report bepresented before the 30th June, 1936? 
Will the Government considerfixing the amounts to be paid on a sliding scale for a period of three or five years? 
In its recent report, the commission stated that, in view of economic conditions, no fixed grant for a long term of years could be equitably determined and that it had not found any satisfactory method to cover even a short term of years. Its recommendations were accordingly confined to grants for the year 1935-36. The fixing of grants over a period of years will receive the further consideration of the Government, in the light of future reports of the Grants Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What assistance and concessions, in the way of money and material, are granted to rifle clubs? 
What conditions, if any, are attached to the granting of such assistance and concessions ? 
What is the strength of the personnel of rifle clubs in each State? 
What percentage of these were classified as " efficient " at the end of the year 1934-35 ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers: - 
and 2. Assistance and concessions to rifle clubs - 

 Monetary Grants. - For each efficient rifleman, that is to say, one who has fired the practices required by the Military Board and has kept his rifle in a serviceable condition, an efficiency grant is paid annually to rifle clubs on the basis of 5s. per efficient of country and 2s.6d. per efficient ofcity rifle clubs. The efficiency grant may be expended on payment of markers, upkeep of rifle ranges and for general expenses in connexion with the clubs' interior economy. 

 Rifle Ranges. - Country clubs are assisted by a monetary grant not exceeding £75 for the construction of their ranges and also towards their upkeep. They are required to assist in these matters by the provision of funds and of working parties. 

 Rifles. - For the encouragement of recruits, rifle clubs may bo issued with rifles on the scale of one per five members. The clubs are responsible for their maintenance and good condition. Riflemen may purchase a converted rifle with a new heavy barrel for cash £4, or on a deferred payment system extending over four years. 

 Ammunition. - Ammunition is provided on the following scale per annum: - Per efficient member free issue 100 rounds; on payment at reduced rates 200 rounds; each nonefficient member on payment at reduced rates 50 rounds. In addition each efficient may be issued free with 100 rounds of the obsolescent Mark VI. ammunition while stocks are available. 

 Other materials. - Clubs may purchase, at the departmental rates, accessories and spare parts for rifles, and target and cleaning material. 

 Travelling. - Riflemen in metropolitan areas are assisted by the grant of free travelling to rifle practice on a limited number of occasions per annum. 
The strength ofthe personnel of rifle clubs in each State on the 30th June, 1935, was as follows: - 

<graphic href="147332193510036_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

Of this total 7,009 are members of regimental rifle clubs. 
The percentage of efficients to strength on the 30th June, 1935, was 92 per cent. 
[3.13].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to give effect to the proposal announced in the budget speech to make a partial restoration of  salaries to members of the Public Service, and of the naval, military and air services, as well as of the allowances paid to members of Parliament and the salaries of Ministers. The restoration proposed will be at the rate of2½ per cent., calculated on thebasis of the salaries paid in 1930. 
Salaries in the Public Service were reduced under the original financial emergency legislation by from 18 per cent. to 25 per cent. of the 1930 salary standard.  In  1933 and 1934, restorations aggregating approximately 7½ per cent. were made. Their effect was to free salaries up to £388 per annum, based on the 1930 standard, from any reduction other  than  that occasioned by a variation of the cost of living. The further restoration of2½ per cent. now proposed will free salaries up to £485 per annum, based on the 1930 standard, from any reduction other than a cost-of-living reduction of £42. In other words, all public servants whose salary is £485 per annum or less will, when this bill becomes law, be paid in full, except for the cost-of-living reduction. With the passing of this bill, salaries from £486 to £1,000 per annum will be subject to a reduction at the rate of 10 per cent., less £6 ; on salaries from £1,001 to £2,000, the reduction will be 12½ per cent., less £6 ; whilst salaries over £2,000 will be reduced by 15 per cent., less £6. Clause 3, which gives effect to this proposal, has been drafted so as to avoid the use of the complex formula contained in previous acts of this description. 
With the restoration now proposed, the reduction of total salaries for all the services combined, including the costofliving reduction, will average 11 per cent. below the 1930 standard. 
Following the practice adopted on previous occasions, the salaries of the personnel of the naval, military and air forces will be adjusted by the  Minister  for Defence in such a way that the three defence services will, as nearly as possible, be placed on the same footing as members of the Public Service. 
The Bill makes provision for the costofliving variations to be continued. Should the cost of living increase, all salaries will be increased in accordance with the usual public service practice; should the cost of living decrease, salaries will be reduced accordingly, with a proviso that any further reduction will first be absorbed by any existing financial emergency cut. An officer who is already suffering a reduction of salary in excess of the cost of living adjustment will not be subject to any further reduction. 
Last year the cost-of-living index number increased sufficiently to justify an increase of £6 per annum to adult male members of the services, and of smaller amounts to females and juniors. The intention of the law in that connexion was clear ; but some doubt arose as to whether the precise wording of section 11a of the Financial Emergency Act covered the increase. The Government decided to pay the increases as from the 1st July, 1935, and to seek the necessary validation later in order to remove any doubts which might exist. Accordingly, a clause to validate 'the cost-of-living increases has been inserted in the bill. 
In the case of parliamentary allowances and salaries of Ministers, the bill provides for a restoration of 2½ per cent. When this restoration  is  made, the parliamentary allowance of a private member or senator will still be subject to a reduction of 15 per cent., and the salaries of Ministers to a reduction of  17½  per cent. 
The restoration of 2½ per cent. involves certain consequential alterations in connexion with fees, allowances and so on which have been provided for by a clause in the bill. Further explanations of the various provisions will be made at the committee stage if necessary. 
The Opposition supports the bill because it believes that restoration should be made to public servants and others who suffered under the financial emergency legislation. It accepts as satisfactory, at the moment, the modicum of restoration proposed under the bill to members of Parliament and to Ministers; but it does not believe that there was any need to make only a partial restoration in either case or to the public servants. The Government has boasted that Australia has turned the corner, that prosperity has returned, that there are ever recurring surpluses and that private enterprise is doing its job well ; and if it were consistent it -would have restored to the full the amount taken away. It is regrettable that the Government should still refuse to restore in full to public servants the amounts by which salaries were reduced during a period of national emergency. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber take this opportunity to protest, because neither in this bill nor in the budget has provision been made to restore to invalid and old-age pensioners the amount of which they have been deprived. We are supporting the bill only because we believe that it does afford a measure of justice to those deserving it ; but, on the other hand, we have to realize that we cannot go on much longer tinkering with vital problems as we are to-day. It must be clear to honorable senators opposite that the time has arrived to consider seriously a comprehensive national scheme of insurance covering old age, invalidity, unemployment, and incapacity. Such a measure would dispense with the necessity to introduce piecemeal legislation of this nature, particularly in a country such as Australia, which is capable of producing all the necessaries of mankind. 
It was a pleasure to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  state that he is supporting this bill, but in doing so he did not give to the Government credit for what it has achieved during recent years. If the honorable senator studies the budget and the restoration made in numerous directions, he will find that there has been steady progress since the reductions were made by the Scullin Government in 1931 under the Financial Emergency Act. The Government does not profess to be able to produce to-day a condition of affairs comparable with 1928-29, but it is showing that by constructive proposals and economical administration it is gradually lifting the country out of the depression and bringing about a reasonable measure of prosperity. If the Leader of the Opposition is here next year, and I hope that he will be, he will again be able to congratulate the Government upon the fine performance which it will then have behind it. I support the bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator DuncanHughes)  adjourned. 
I am glad to have this opportunity to speak on the Estimates and budget-papers prior to the conclusion of the debate of the Financial Relief Bill 1935, the debate on which has just been adjourned. That measure covers a portion of the Government's financial proposals, and it seems to me that the debate on it should follow the main debate on the budget. I do not propose to debate the Government's financial proposals exhaustively.  Senator Allan  MacDonald went into detail last night, and we also had from my new colleague,  Senator James  McLachlan a very interesting speech, which shows that he will be an acquisition to the debating strength of the Senate. I congratulate the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  upon his first budget; it strikes me as having been admirably prepared. There are, of course, in this as in other similar documents a number of items which do not appeal to every one in the same way, but, if one casts one's mind back three or four years, one can see the measure of improvement achieved and how much closer we are to a stabilization of our position than we were. That is  a  testimony to the work done by this Government and its predecessor. 
It must be a matter of satisfaction to  a  large number of persons in Australia that we are at last moving towards a proper system of defence for Australia. I have spoken so often on the subject of defence, not only here but elsewhere, and I have so constantly emphasized how essential it is - none the less because there is a League of Nations - that we should be prepared to do something by our own. arms if occasion should arise, that it is a great satisfaction to see that our defences are being strengthened. I do not think that in this matter the Government has moved so quickly as it might have done, and it is certain that public opinion has been extremely dilatory; but one can now see throughout the country a realization of the fact that unarmed we can carry very  little weight in the councils of the world. The prospective return of the military college to Duntroon is to me personally and to many other people a matter for profound satisfaction. During the comparatively few years that the military college was located there a real tradition was built up in Australia. That is realized by all who are familiar with Australia's part in the war. Duntroon is admirably suited to the training of our soldiers and officers and it is close to the Federal Capital city, as it should be; indeed the college was here for many years before the seat of government was transferred to Canberra. The city of Sydney is not particularly suited to the training of officers and I welcome the proposal to re-establish the college in this quieter spot in the country. 
With other honorable senators I regret that the Government has not seen its way clear to reduce taxation to a greater extent than is disclosed in this budget. I am convinced that the more taxation can be reduced the more will the community be benefited and unemployment relieved. I notice that the special income tax on property is to be reduced by one per cent. This is a very reasonable decision in view of the fact that a reduction from 10 per cent, to 5 per cent, was proposed two years ago, but at the last moment owing to the necessity to provide money for the wheat farmers, the remission was altered to 4 per cent. It seems to me that the two forms of taxation which affect people most and in respect of which there is a prior claim for remission are the land tax and the sales tax. The former is levied regardless of whether any income is being derived from the land or not and is to all intents and purposes a tax on property. The sales tax is irksome, because, apart from the financial 'burden it imposes, it necessitates a very great deal of bookkeeping and causes irritation to a large number of business people. The land tax has always seemed to me to be a grossly unjust imposition. It is not a tax which affects the country people so much as the city dwellers. As a matter of fact, in the city there are two payers of Commonwealth land tax for every one in the  country. 
HUGHES. - I would not impose any tax in its place. Adam Smith wrote, and it is true to-day, that the less the people are taxed the better for the people and for the whole community. In respect of the property tax, the sales tax and the ordinary income tax there is something on which to levy, but land tax, unless the hardship provisions are brought into operation - provisions which I have never liked - must be paid regardless of whether the land has earned anything or not. 
In this budget the Government proposes to grant " remissions of primage to rectify a number of anomalies relating to raw materials and capital and technical goods, of which more than two-thirds are British ", and honorable senators are informed that full details of the reductions are to be published by proclamation in the  Commonwealth Gazette.  The loss to the budget for the current year is estimated at £45,000. I ask the Leader of the Senate whether any arrangement has been entered into with the British Government for the variation or postponement of Article 14 of the Ottawa agreement which relates to primage. 
His Majesty's Government in the Commonwealth of Australia undertake in so far as concerns goods the produce or manufacture of the United Kingdom: 
to reduce or remove primage duty as soon as the finances of Australia will allow. 
Strong protests from British commercial organizations were forecast yesterday in federal political circles as a result of the Commonwealth budgetary decision to reduce primage charges on United Kingdom goods by £45,000 during 1935-36. 
Unless we honour our obligations under the Ottawa agreement, and give to Britain a fair deal, we cannot reasonably expect that we shall receive any special consideration when we are negotiating to sell to the United Kingdom the products that we must sell overseas, of all of which the Mother Country buys the largest quantity. 
One phrase appears in the budget which I do not like. It is " inescapable obligations ". I suppose that most government obligations are inescapable in that they must be met on the due dates, but there are obligations which are not inescapable. For instance, there is the liability in respect of invalid and old-age pensions. It seems to me that we cannot have it both ways. If we continue increasing the amount of invalid and old-age pensions, as we have done in the past, and take to ourselves credit for doing this, we cannot, on the other hand, claim that our pensions bill is an inescapable obligation, because we accepted this commitment with our eyes open, knowing what it involved. 
The last subject upon which I desire to speak is that mentioned by  Senator Collings  a few days ago. It is one in which we all are deeply interested, namely, the question whether it is better, in order to give employment to our people, that the Government should provide, by taxation, the money for what are known as developmental works, or whether it should remit more of the taxation burden on private enterprise and allow industry, as far as possible, to take its natural course. I do not wish that my observations, except perhaps on the subject of primage, should be taken as being critical of the Government. Having in mind the difficulties which this Government has encountered, and its natural desire to do something to relieve the difficulties of the unemployed. I think, on the whole, the Ministry has steered a sound course.  Senator Collings.  T imagine, holds the contrary view. He would have the Government spend money on public works, regardless of whether such undertakings were of any value to the nation. 

 Senator Collings. - I rise to a point of order. I object to the statement of  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that I advocate the spending of government money merely for the sake of spending it. I have never made any such suggestion. 
HUGHES.- In view of the honorable senator's assurance I cheerfully withdraw the statement objected to. I am very pleased to hear the honorable senator say that he had no such thought in mind. But I put it to the Senate that if the Government did what he has advocated, and spent money on public relief works without regard to their utility, the effect would be what I have stated. That, I think, is a fair interpretation of the honorable senator's remarks. 
HUGHES. - I had intended to mention that proposed expenditure. Probably some honorable senators will recall the views which I expressed when opposing the bill to authorize the construction of the Red Hill to Port Augusta railway. I said then that although it would provide employment to workers, principally in my own State - I did not overlook that point - I did not think it was an undertaking which would be beneficial to Australia as a whole, and that it would be far better if the Government, by its financial policy, allowed money to BOW more freely through the channels of trade and industry. I am absolutely certain that this would be in the interests of our people generally. Honorable senators may be interested to learn what has been done in England in recent years. Great Britain, since the war, has adopted the course which I thought had the approval of  Senator Collings  - I now know that it has not - and during the last fifteen years lias expended no less a sum than £700,000,000 on what may be called developmental works. 
Sena tor DUNCAN - HUGHES. - I am not prepared to say whether it is or not. If it is, then it appears to me to be a wrong principle. I propose to substantiate my view by quoting statements made by three of the leading men in Great Britain -  Mr. Ramsay  McDonald, a Labour member and until recently Prime Minister;  Mr. Walter  Runciman,  President  of the Board of Trade, formerly a Liberal ; and  Mr. Neville  Chamberlain, the present Chancellor of the Exchequer, a Conservative. The  Annual Register,  1932, states- 
On the second day of the debate [7th November - on unemployment] the Prime Minister  (Mr. Ramsay MacDonald)  indicated not, indeed, an actual policy from the side of the Government, but the manner in which it was approaching the problem.  He began by ruling out definitely an extension of public relief works. This method, he said, had been given the fullest possible trial by the late Labour Government, and its results had been disappointing, since for the expenditure of every million pounds they had been able to keep not more than 4,000 men in work. In any case, the country could no longer afford to spend money on schemes the permanent value of which was doubtful. The one course open to thom, he thought, was to concentrate ail their powers of thought upon finding out how they could stimulate trade, so that the demand for labour would be a natural demand. 
That statement puts the position in a nutshell. 
HUGHES. - A natural demand for labour cannot be expected when approximately one-half of taxpayers' incomes is absorbed by governmental demands and when the proceeds, as in Great Britain, are put into governmental relief works. I do not believe in governmental works. I do not wish to disparage governments, but I am confident that much better results may be expected from the expenditure of money by private individuals than by governments, and I venture to think that the majority of honorable senators are in agreement with me on this point. 
Sena tor DUNCAN - HUGHES. - So.me qf us were born in this country - I was, and I yield to none in love of my native land - but our parents, grandparents, or great-grandparents were migrants. Is it reasonable that we, who were born in this country, or had come here from overseas, should now close thu door to other people who may wish to migrate to Australia? It is, I suggest, unfair to deny to them the privileges which we or our grandparents en joyed. But I return to my quotations.  Mr. Neville  Chamberlain, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, speaking in the House of Commons on the 16th February, 1933, said, as reported in the  Annual Register - 
It is the deliberate opinion of the Government that that policy .[providing unemployment by public works] has failed, and that we must have done with it once and for all, and that is an opinion held unanimously by the 'Cabinet. 
In the House of Commons, on the 26th July, 1933,  Mr. Walter  Runciman, the  President  of the Board of Trade, was quoted by  Mr. Chamberlain  as having said - 
We terminated our schemes for dealing  with  the unemployed by way of capital expenditure on public works, and we shall not re-open those schemes no matter what may be done elsewhere. I say emphatically that, for our part, we are abandoning this policy once and for all. 
In the world there are two schools of thought in regard to developmental works. One school says that the Government should provide the money to carry out public works, whether or not they will be reproductive, either immediately or eventually; the other school, to which I adhere, says that if money, trade, and commerce are allowed to follow a natural course better results will be obtained, and more people will be employed than if governments carry out these undertakings. 
SenatorFoll.  -  The municipalities of Great Britain have a definite programme of slum abolition. 

 Senator James McLachlan referred to the necessity for a proper ground organization in connexion with our air mail services. The newspapers have contained many statements relating to air mail services, and from them we have learned of a proposal to establish a daily air mail between the principal cities of Australia. So far, no announcement has been made to the Senate of the Government's intentions in this matter. I invite the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  to take honorable senators into his confidence and let them know whether . the newspapers have correctly stated the intention of the Government. 
 Generally, the budget gives evidence of progress. It certainly does so if the estimated revenue for 1935-36 is compared with that for 1931-32, when governments had to exercise the strictest economy in all directions. It may be that the revenue is increasing too rapidly, for since 1931-32 the receipts of the Government have increased by £4,000,000 per  annum. Unfortunately, there is a tendency for governments to be more  lavish  with the pcople'3 money when revenue is buoyant than when times are hard. I remind the Senate that in 1931-32 Australia floated a big conversion loan, and that bond-holders were then compelled to accept a reduction of 22^ per cent, of their interest receipts. I imagine that overseas investors may be wondering what the Government intends to do in regard to further taxation. Last year the sales tux was reduced by 1 per cent., but notwithstanding that reduction, the return from that tax wis in excess of the receipts for the previous year. In my opinion, the sales tax should have been reduced by a further 1 per cent, this year. That tax is the cause of great dissatisfaction among business people, because it tends to separate buyers from sellers. Although it is estimated that the sales tax will place £8,850,000 in the Treasury this year, the effect of the tax is harmful, because it retards business progress. 
When speaking of unemployment, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  did not tell as that in Australia to-day there are 451,000 factory hands employed, compared with 337,000 in 1931, and 450,482 in 1927 when employment was at its peak. Nor did he say that the improvement in respect of unemployment had been effected despite the fact that during the last five years 250,000 employable boys who had left Australian schools had come on the labour market. Even during peak periods of employment in any part of the world there is always a percentage of unemployable persons. During the peak period in 1927, when the total number of persons employed was 450,000, the unemployed numbered 38.641 or about 9 per cent. Many who have studied the budget regret that the Government has refused to reduce, by other than a paltry £500,000, the burden of £9,000,000 of emergency taxation imposed, most of which remains operative, as a reminder, I suppose, of the crisis from which we hope we are emerging. The retention of this additional taxation is one of the main obstacles to complete financial recovery. 
Yesterday certain criticisms were levelled against the Australian Broad- casting Commission. I have taken an interest in broadcasting, and in wireless matters generally, ever since its introduction into Australia, in 1933 I endeavoured to obtain, through  Major Conder,  who was then the general manager of the commission, a better news service, particularly for those resident in country districts, but  Major Conder  informed me that the wireless news service was controlled and supplied by certain newspapers. I then endeavoured, through him and the managers of the broadcasting stations in Adelaide, to have the conditions improved, and I have also been hammering away at this subject since  Mr. Cleary  was appointed  chairman  of the commission. I have interviewed and written to that gentleman on several occasions requesting a better news service. I am pleased to learn that the matter has now been taken up with the managers of various stations, and that a better news system has been evolved which will be acceptable not only to those living near the cities, but also to those resident in country districts. I understand that instead of listeners hav~ ing a two or three minutes news session between 6 and 7 p.m., under the new arrangement which commenced this week they will ha've a comprehensive service lasting 20 minutes. The commission, under the chairmanship of  Mr. Cleary,  is doing good work. In the matter of musical items I believe that it is doing its utmost to provide the programmes which the people desire. 
During my recent visit to the Northern Territory, when I travelled over 2,000 miles, I was struck by the outstanding optimism of the people in that part of Australia. I notice that in the budget, the expenditure proposed this year in the Northern Territory is only £20,000 more than was provided in the previous year. The proposed vote is quite inadequate to assist the development of such a vast territory. It would appear that the Government finds it impossible to govern the territory satisfactorily from Canberra, and I would suggest that  immediaate  consideration 'be given to the establishment of a form of self-government. Last year Parliament passed a bill providing a form of self-government for the people of Norfolk Island, and as the residents of the Northern  Territory  are almost as far away from Canberra as are the people of Norfolk Island, they should receive similar consideration. 
I realize that there is that difference. I have always felt that a great injustice was inflicted upon the people of the Northern Territory when the Government refused to allow its member in the House of Representatives to vote. I am not referring to present or past members of the Northern Territory, but merely suggesting that its representative, whoever he may be, should have a vote on national matters. 
There is no parallel, because the residents of the Federal Capital Territory can approach the Minister for the Interior or any other Minister whenever they desire. 
Probably that would be sufficient, but problems which affect the whole of Australia also concern the Northern Territory. The representative of the Northern Territory has to travel long distances in order to keep in touch with the requirements of his constituents. I do not suggest that this Government is any more to blame than were previous governments because the Northern Territory, where large sums of money have been wasted, has always been neglected. In the matter of roads and water supplies a good deal still remains to be done. Numerous roads and tracks are used for transport purposes, but the crossings at watercourses are so unsatisfactory that the roads cannot be used at. all periods of the year. Many of the wells are in the same condition as they were when the Commonwealth assumed control of the territory. At Tennant's Creek wo found that although the bucket used to draw water from a well had been in use for many years, and had holes half an inch in diameter in the bottom, another could not be obtained. I have a photograph showing the water pouring out of the bottom of the bucket. This, of course, is only a minor matter, but it indicates the extent to which the ordinary requirements of the people are overlooked. 
The Commonwealth Government controls 750 miles of railway between Quorn and Alice Springs on the fringe of Central Australia. Some have advocated the continuance of the railway from Alice Springs to Birdum, but I believe that an extension to connect with Darwin is unnecessary. If the Government transport unit, which is providing a good service, were duplicated, it would be sufficient to carry all heavy transport. With the possibility of air services developing, it would be a waste of money to spend more on the extension of the railway northwards from Alice Springs. Something must be done immediately to maintain connexion between Tennant's Creek and Alice Springs, and thereby assist the transport of goods to their natural outlet at Port Augusta, in South Australia. There are fifteen or sixteen watercourses between Alice Springs and Tennant's Creek, the crossings on which are in a bad state of repair. Money should be expended immediately to provide a good track. A government battery is badly needed at Tennant's Creek, where great development is taking place. When the Minister for the Interior was there, he stated that if private enterprise was unable to cope with the crushing of ore the Government would assist. The Government should establish batteries close to the ore supplies. About two years ago the Commonwealth Government assisted by the South Australian Government, placed a ten-head stamp battery al  Mongalata.  At Tennant's Creek there is a privately-owned five-head battery, and a mill, but the Government should provide a battery. 
I understand that two private companies at Tennant's Creek, which obtained water by boring near their holdings, have decided to erect batteries. These will assist mining operations., but will not be sufficient to deal with all the ore to be treated. Some miners are neglecting their claims, because they have no means to crush their ore. Assays taken from several of the claims show a return of over 2 oz. of gold to the ton, and many are producing crushings up to 5 and 6 oz. A recent report from the Rising Sun Mine shows that a return of 401 oz. of gold was obtained from a 70-ton crushing. The Government should assist in the matter of development, particularly when the price of gold is abnormally high. I realize that good work has been done in providing reliable water supplies.  Mr.  Freane,  the water diviner, was sent to the Northern Territory; but, unfortunately, supplies were not obtained on the sites where he suggested that boring should he done. Three sources of supply have been found near Tennant's Creek, and progress has been made as a result of private enterprise. Professor Cecil Madigan, who visited the Northern Territory on several occasions, stated recently that the wealth of the Northern Territory was a myth, that very little gold was to be found there and that the pastoral industry was on the wane. The gold returns from the Northern Territory show that Professor Cecil Madigan knows very little about the Territory. I am informed that on the average 400 or 500 oz. of gold is taken from the Tennant's Creek field every week. The fact that two small batteries are each returning over 200 oz. of gold a week is sufficient to show that that field is worth developing.  Dr. Woolnough,  in his first report, stated that he was dubious as to whether the Tennant's Creek field would yield good results. Recently, he is reported in the press to have said that though he believed that the deposits would not live beyond 300 feet he did not mean that the field would have a short life. He said that huge areas are to be found where new and profitable deposits exist; and the field would produce for years to come. He admitted that he had changed his views as a result of his second visit, regarding the best methods of prospecting in new uncovered deposits. We may assume, therefore, that although the field may not prove so rich as some optimists predicted, it is well worthy of development. 
In regard to the pastoral industry in the Northern Territory, I discovered that some pastoralists did not know where their leases began or ended. A trigonometrical survey should be made in order that lessees may be able properly to define the boundaries of their leases. 1 heard of men having expended money in providing water supplies - in one case a homestead also had .been constructed - only to find afterwards that this work had been carried out on other men's properties. The Government should see that the boundaries of the leases are properly determined. With regard to the provision of water supplies, I recommend the construction of a chain of bores running east and west from two different points to cross the present chain of bores and wells along the telegraph line. There is always a good season in some parts of the Northern Territory but, because of the lack of water, stock cannot be shifted from one area to another, and consequently are left without feed and die. If my suggestion were accepted and overstocking in good seasons were prevented, a large number of the stock that are lost each year would be saved. 
I notice in the budget that the sum of £2,500 is provided for the mines branch in the Northern Territory, and for the development of mining only £600. I think the latter provision is altogether inadequate. 
The Government is to be complimented upon not acceding to the proposal made by  Mr. Chapman  last year for the despatch of a large number of boys to work on the Granites gold-field. If ever there was a place to which boys should not be sent it is that field. There may be gold there, but the conditions under which the miners have to work are very bad. We learned from the boys employed that the shafts are not timbered below 16 feet. I have a sworn statement by one lad that on one occasion he had just left a spot where he had been drilling at the 80-ft. level when seven or eight tons of earth crashed down. I consider that the Government should appoint a mines inspector to watch operations on that field.  Mr. Chapman  knew nothing of mining before going to that area; he is without the aid of experienced miners, and employs only lads between the ages of 18 and 22 years. That state of affairs should not be permitted to continue. Boys should not be sent to The Granites. It is a place for experienced and hardened men. Chapman's proposal emanated from a desire to exploit these boys by getting them to work for almost nothing. I found that many of them are in debt to him. Receiving only £2 15s. to £3 a week, they have to pay as much as 9d. per lb. for salt and ls. Id. per lb. for sugar. For all other stores they are charged at a commensurately high rate. 
Recently I visited the laboratories of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research at Canberra, and was gratified to find that great success had attended the investigations of means to cope with blue mould in tobacco, and to overcome the blowfly pest. The Government should be proud of what its experts are accomplishing, and I urge it to assist as far as possible scientific research into problems affecting our great producing industries, and to encourage the development of mining while the present high price of gold continues. 
.- Naturally, in any consideration of the budget honorable senators are interested in figures relating to the Estimates of revenue and expenditure for the year. I was very much impressed by the following reference in the speech of the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  to the special income tax on property: - 
In the budget of 1933-34 it was proposed, in common with other taxation remissions, to make a reduction in the rate of this tax from 10 per cent, to 5 per cent. 
This proposal was subsequently modified in order to help to provide revenue for wheatgrowers' relief, and the tax was reduced to 6 per cent, instead of 5 per cent. The present tax is still recognized as a severe form of emergency taxation, on which relief should be given as soon as reasonable opportunity presents itself. 
The Assistant Treasurer then stated that the reduction of this special tax from 6 per cent, to 5 per cent, would entail a loss of revenue amounting to £200,000. Last year the actual expenditure for the relief of wheat-growers and other primary producers was £4,324,056; for this year the estimate is £1,175.000. The wheat-growers and other primary producers, who were supposed to have got the benefit of the revenue derived from the property tax, are being penalized to the amount of £3,150,000. According to the Assistant Treasurer, the modification two years ago of the proposal in respect of the special tax on income from property was brought about in order to help to provide relief to primary producers. Is it not absurd that we should consider reducing this tax by only £200,000, when the Government is budgeting for the relief of wheat-growers to an amount that is £3,150,000 less than was expended last year? It could wipe out the whole of the tax, which is expected to yield only £1,200,000 and still give to the primary producers a great deal more than is proposed in the budget. 
With regard to the broadcasting service, I understood the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  to say that the  chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission had visited all the capital cities. So far as I am aware, he did not visit Hobart. 
If he visted Hobart he kept very quiet. We should certainly have been- glad to see him in connexion with the Hobart studio. The commission purchased a property in Hobart as a site for a new studio, and pulled down a substantial building that was standing on it and was leased to a doctor. Ever since that block has been in such a neglected state as to constitute a disgrace to the city. The building which was pulled down would have lasted for many years, and if the commission did not intend to build a new broadcasting studio it could have received revenue from the old property. 
I was interested to listen to the remarks of  Senator Badman  in regard to the broadcast news service. I do not know what sort of news service is broadcast in South Australia, but the service supplied by the Tasmanian stations is very poor, and consists generally of information concerning the extremes of temperature in Hobart, the prices realized at auction sales in that city, and a few other equally uninspiring items. Up to the time I left Hobart the news of the day broadcast from the Tasmanian stations was negligible. I hope that in  the new year we shall have the new submarine telephone service in operation, and that the Tasmanian stations will be able to broadcast a news service of more value to the community generally. 
I am in agreement with the proposal made in the budget to make a further restoration of the salaries of public servants, but I intend to oppose the increase of allowances to members. The Public Service consists of a fine body of men and women. The figures stated in the budget do not disclose the number of public servants of the Commonwealth, but I gather that there has been a tremendous increase during the present year. The budget speech discloses that Commonwealth employees were on the 1st July, 1935, being paid £1,450,000 per annum less than they would have been paid on the 1930 standard. What is the total estimated amount to be paid to the public servants this year as compared with last year? I think we shall find that it is substantially move, because in some departments the number of officers has increased considerably. I consider that the Public Service as a whole is underpaid, but I also believe that in some departments there are too many employees to do the work required. I would sooner see a smaller and a better paid Service. I do not consider that I am breaking confidences when I say that my remarks in this connexion are endorsed by a great many officers in the Public Service. 
I should like to get some information from the Government as to the River Murray waters scheme which has been under construction for many years, and upon which the Commonwealth and the three States interested have spent millions of pounds. Tasmania has to bear its proportion of the Commonwealth contribution to the cost of this work. If it were of great value no objection would be raised, but up to the present it has been of advantage to nobody. Several reports which have been presented do not show a satisfactory state of affairs, and the Commonwealth Government should find our just to what it is committing itself. Year after year we continue spending money on this project until the total cost to date is four or five times the amount originally esti mated. The Government should do something to obtain an accurate estimate as to what it will actually cost to complete the work. 
Last year when I spoke on Australia's contributions to the League of Nations I was subjected to a good deal of criticism from all parts of Australia. People wrote to me commending the wonderful work of the League, and saying that Australia was privileged to be a member of that body. I have never objected to Australia's membership of the League of Nations, though 
I did, and still do, object to the amount of Australia's contribution. Only recently other countries have begun to protest against the amounts of their contributions towards the upkeep of the League. In the Hobart  Mercury  of the 18th September, the following item appeared: - 
 I desire to place in their proper setting the figures concerning primage duty which were quoted by  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  The Minister for External Affairs  (Senator Pearce)  has stated already the proportion of foreign goods in comparison with British goods affected by primage. The percentages he mentioned cut down by one-third the figures given by the honorable senator. The first primage revenue mentioned 'by the honorable gentleman was that for 1931-32, the financial year . before the Ottawa agreement was signed. Australian imports in that year fell to their lowest level in modern times. The nadir of the depression was in 1929-30, but the lag in imports did not show fully until 1931-32, when they totalled only £34,000,000. Imports in 1932- 33 amounted to £56,000,000; in 1933- 34, to £59,000,000; and in 1934-35, to £72,500,000. Even in the last year the increase from £59,000,000 to £72,500,000 involved a very great addition to the primage revenue. In almost every year since the primage duty was first imposed reductions and removals of articles from its operation have occurred in pursuance of the undertakings given in the Ottawa agreement by Australia to Great Britain. The most recent issue of . the Commonwealth  Y ear-Book  contains the following passage - 
Further amendments removing or reducing primage duties were made on the following dates: 26th February, 1932; 1st September, 1932; Nth October, 1932- Nth November, 1932;8th March, 1933; and 5th October, 1933. 
Many reductions have been made since, including the reduction of £45,000 this year. I think it right that the honorable senator's figures should be shown in proper perspective. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Dein)  adjourned. 
[5.3].  -  I move - 
That the Senate  do  now adjourn. 
The Government -has decided to appoint a royal commission to inquire into the monetary and hanking systems in Australia. The personnel of the royal commission will 'be: - 
[3.1]. -  by leave  - I desire to inform the Senate that on the 3rd October  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral accepted the resignation of the Bight Honorable J. A. Lyons from the office of Treasurer of the Commonwealth, and appointed the Honorable E. G. Casey to be Treasurer in his stead. 
I have received from Lady Lewis a letter of thanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed 'by the Senate on the occasion of the death of the Honorable  Sir Elliott  Lewis, K.C.M.G. 
[3.4]. -  by leave  - From time to time, in soma sections of the daily press, and as late as Wednesday last, in a section of the weekly press, statements have appeared to the effect that a certain senator was the nominee of the Government for the position of  President  of the Senate. The statements are absolutely inaccurate. At a meeting of senators called for the purpose of considering the selection of a senator as  president,  I, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, informed senators that the Government had no nominee and that, as a government, it was not concerned in the election in any way whatsoever. 
, -  by leave  - I wish to refer to a statement made by  Senator Hardy  in the Senate on Thursday last to the effect that ho had been appointed Leader of the Country party in the Senate. I do not feel at liberty, nor do I desire, to discuss what took place at that meeting, beyond saying that the five Country party senators who were present decided unanimously not to appoint a Leader of the Country party in the Senate. 
The meeting authorized  Senator Hardy  to make an announcement to the Senate in specific terms, which did not include any reference to a leader of the Country party in this chamber. The statement made by the honorable senator was at complete variance from the one which he was authorized to make. 
There is noLeader of the Country party in the Senate. In any case pledges to the electors and pledges made under the constitution of the Primary Producers 
Association of Western Australia - the Country party organization of that State - preclude Western Australian Country party senators from following any party leader in a senate established for the protection of the rights of the people of the weaker States. 
I have received a request from  Senator Carroll  to read to the Senate the following letter which he has addressed to  Dr. Earle  Page on this subject: -  38 Sydney Street, 
Concord, New South Wales, 
October6th,1935. 
Dear  Dr. Page, 
Further to my letter of the 26th ultimo in which I expressed the opinion that it would be wiser to defer the appointment of a Country party leader in the Senate during thelifeof the composite Government now in office, I see, according to press reports that  Senator Hardy  has announced that he hasbeen elected to that position. 
Assuming that the press report is correct,I desire to say that having already expressed my views in respect thereto, I see no reason to change them. Consequently [ do not intend to recognize  Senator Hardy  as my leader. 
I have been credibly informed from Several sources that SenatorHardy, in making his announcement in the Senate, did not accurately represent the position; thatwhat actually happened was that he had been elected to represent the party in the Senate on the same lines as it had previously been represented by me. 
Be this as it may, there still seems tome to be no justification for the action taken, as the identity of the Country party and its leader has, for the time being, been merged in the Government and the Minister for Commerce, who are already officially represented in the Senate by Ministers. 
There is just one other point  1  wish to make. Judging by his public utterances.  Senator Hardy  does not represent the views of a majority of Country party senators. Consequently his recognition as leader would place the party in an invidious and impossible position. 
Yours faithfully, 
Carroll. 
I may add that we were compelled to take this matter up in view of the false position in which we were placed by  Senator Hardy's  unfortunate utterance. 
 by leave  - I verymuch regret that  Senator Johnston  has seen fit to bring before the Senate what, after all, appears to bo a purely party matter. The function of the Senate is, 
I suggest, to deal with matters of national concern. My regret is the greater because of the fact that at thatmeeting of the Country party senators referred to,  Senator Johnston  was the only senator besides myself nominated for the position of leader. 
The statement which I made to the Senate on Thursday last was absolutely correct. In pursuance of the decision of senators representing the Country party, to elect a leader of the Country partymembers in this chamber, the secretary of the party forwarded a written communication to each member. I understand that  Senator Johnston  himself helped to draft the letter inviting senators to meet on a certain day. At that meeting two nominations were considered - mine and that of  Senator Johnston. Senator Johnston  and I decided to pair in the voting, thus allowing the other three honorable senators present - Senators Cooper, Badman and Abbott - to make the decision. Later they called us in and stated that I bad been selected as the leader of the Country party in the Senate. I may add that I even went so far as to write out the announcement which I proposed to make in this chamber, and submitted it to Senators Cooper, Badman, Abbott and Johnston. 
I took it to  Senator Johnston,  and he approved of the announcement which I intended to make in the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
How many States have passed the necessary legislation required under the Loan (Farmers Debt Adjustment) Act? 
What is the amount of money already used out of the £12,000,000 the Government suggested should be raised for the purpose of assisting the farmers to adjust their debts? 
Three States, viz.,New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia. 
An amount of £10,000 has been paid as an advance to South Australia.No applications have yet been received fromNew South Wales and Western Australia, but it is understood that those States have been operating the scheme since their respective acts were passed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the following resolution respecting wool marketing carried at the last annual conference of the Primary Producers Association in Western Australia: - " That, considering the economic policy of Australia, this conference is of the opinion that the Federal Government should definitely decide between three alternatives - 
The fixing of a minimum selling reserve price for wool, as recommended by the wool inquiry committee ; 
Making currency adjustments to secure a return equal to the production costs." 
Has the Government arrived at any decision in this important matter? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
The problems surrounding the wool industry were discussed at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in May last, when it was considered undesirable to interfere with the existing marketing system. 
Having had an opportunity to peruse this bill, I propose to speak on it relatively briefly, more particularly because when a similar measure was presented to Parliament in 1933 I expressed my views  on  the two principal matters which are at issue. The amount involved in respect of public servants is not very large, being £90,000 per annum, and in respect of members  of  Parliament £3,000. Those are the two chief groups covered by the bill. I do not propose to repeat in detail what I said on the 24th October, 1933. At that time my opinions were expressed clearly, and I still adhere to them. In regard to the proposal to restore a portion  of  the amount by which the allowances paid to members of Parliament had been reduced I said that I was elected on the understanding that I would oppose any increase in such allowance. I have not changed my opinion, and I am still opposed to any such increase. The allowances paid to Ministers are being partially restored but reductions of 20 and  17i  per cent, will still remain operative, while the allowances of members will be subject to a reduction of 15 per cent, when this measure is enacted. The work of Ministers appears to me to be more important than that of private members, and I see no reason why they should suffer a heavier reduction than members generally. Moreover the Senate has not been sitting sufficiently frequently during the last year to justify an increase of the allowance paid to honorable senators. I am therefore opposed to this partial restoration. 
It is an increase of the amount provided at the time when I stood, for election to this chamber. Having informed my constituents that I would not support any increase of the allowance paid to members of Parliament, I do not wish this matter to pas.s without comment. 
I now come to the partial restoration of the salaries and wages paid to public servants and to the members of the naval, military and air forces. At present salaries up to £3SS per annum are, apart from variations in cost of living, free of any reduction, and the present proposal is that all salaries up to £485 per annum shall be similarly free of any reduction. There is also a reduction of salaries above £4S5 which varies . according to the amount of salary received. I am not at all inclined to criticize or to be severe on the more highly paid public officials; their work is important and their positions much more difficult to fill than are those held by lower-paid officials. One may point out, particularly in comparison  with the duties of parliamentarians, that the work of public servants is permanent, and occupies their full time. It appears to me that some departments are over-staffed and others are under-staffed. Probably, I shall have more to say on this matter when the Appropriation Bill is before us. At the moment, I would say that the Defence Department and the Department of External Affairs are among those departments which are under-staffed. In the Commonwealth Service as a whole there are undoubtedly too many employees. This statement would not apply so much to Canberra, where, in a sense, the tendency is to have picked men. I believe that the view I am expressing is held generally. The present size of the Commonwealth Public Service is based on the boom period, which is not likely to recur, except, perhaps, temporarily, and this has led to the employment of an abnormally large staff to-day, although times are again more or less normal. I am not in a position to go into details at this juncture, but it would most probably be found that the present number of Commonwealth public servants greatly exceeds the number employed in 1929. Briefly, my point is that we cannot afford to keep up a sta if which was regarded as necessary in a boom period. If we do so one of two tilings must happen - either all Commonwealth public servants must be retained at a lower rate of pay, or there must be a reduction of personnel. I applaud the action of the Government in retaining  in  employment as many persons as possible during the depression. Indeed, a similar attitude was adopted by countless private  employers. However, whilst I agree with that policy, I still hold the view which I took of this matter two years ago, namely, that if the salaries of public servants are to be restored to the predepression level, the country will be carrying a larger load than it can afford, and, inevitably, a certain number of our present public servants will be obliged to find employment outside. 
"What departments are over-staffed? 
It appears to me that since salaries have been reduced to a greater extent in the Commonwealth Service than in any other, except that of New South Wales, it is only reasonable that Commonwealth, public servants should have their salaries restored to a parity with those in the States. We all admit that the public servants perform a valuable work, the quality of which, of course, varies, and that the Commonwealth owes some consideration to them. I hope, however, that the Commonwealth public servants will not press their claims - their rights, if you like - too far. I imagine that the Government has tried to keep as many of its servants employed as possible during these difficult times, probably more than are really needed to do the work. If the public servants insist on getting back 100 per cent, of the cut, the inevitable result must be that the services of many of them will be dispensed with. I hope that this will not occur, because I believe that the Government during a time of such great depression should employ as many as possible at a lower wage, rather than a smaller number at a higher wage. 
That is all I have to say on these two parts of the bill, the second of which appears to me to be more justified than the first. I hope I shall not be the only honorable senator to speak on this important subject, but that we shall have contributions to this important debate from other honorable senators. 
I regret that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has made such a statement with regard to the Public Service. When he makes accusations against a body of employees, who are giving good service to the Commonwealth, the honorable senator should give details. It is unfair for any honorable senator to speak in general terms of the Public Service being over-staffed. I question very much whether the Service as a whole is over-staffed. If we take into consideration the tendency in other parts of the world, and the need for reducing the hours cf work, following scientific developments in industry, it is questionable whether the Commonwealth Public Service is not under-staffed. Only a few days ago  Senator Duncan-Hughes  endeavoured to justify the proposed additional payment to Ministers. Supporting the proposal to create an extra portfolio and increase accordingly the total amount provided for salaries, the honorable senator said many things with which I agreed. One point he made was that Ministers to-day were being called upon to do extra work, and for this reason an extra portfolio should be created, and the necessary remuneration provided for the extra Minister. If it can be claimed that owing to developments during the last few years the work of Ministers has been increased, it seems to me obvious that, for similar reasons, additional work has fallen upon the Public Service as a whole. Now, when the Government proposes to do a modicum of justice to the Public Service,  Senator Duncan-Hughes  desires to reduce the number of Commonwealth employees. 
Conditions have undergone a marked change since 1901. Even during recent years much additional work has had to be performed by Ministers. 
The honorable senator admits that the additional responsibilities placed on the shoulders of Ministers since 19'29 justify an extra £100 a year to each Minister. Increased work has to be performed by Ministers only because the work of the departments which they administer has grown. That, I submit, means that additional work is performed by the Public Service. In these days the tendency is towards a reduction, rather than an increase, of labour. 
No, I am not Pata s, the memory man. Last week honorable senators opposite sought to justify increased payments to Ministers on the ground of extra work. If their argument was sound then, an increase to members of the Public Service also is justified. 
1929. 
The honorable senator said that the surplus officers in some departments might be transferred to the Defence Department. The way that the war clouds are gathering indicates that there will soon be need to augment the staff of that department. 
When a previous proposal to make partial restoration of allowances to members of Parliament was before the Senate I favoured it, and said that, if the allowance were increased to £1,000 a year, I would accept it. During the last election campaign a number of wharf labourers at Mackay asked me my views on the subject of members' allowances. I told them that I accepted the full amount to which I was entitled, and spent every penny of it; and that, if the allowance were increased, I would still spend all of it. In my opinion, it would be better for the community as a whole if every one distributed his earnings in that way. The members of the Opposition are engaged on their parliamentary duties all the year round, not only when Parliament is sitting in Canberra. The amount now paid to each private member of Parliament is £825 a year, out of which Federal and State income taxes, and travelling expenses have to be paid. A few days ago a business man in Brisbane, who is in receipt of £2.500 a year, said that many commercial travellers drew as much for expenses alone as the allowance paid to members of Parliament. On the same ground that I favour a full restoration of salaries to public servants, I favour a full restoration of the allowance to members of Parliament.  Senator DimcanHughes  should not seek to bind other honorable senators by any undertaking he gave to the electors. When the restoration proposed in this bill has been made, public servants in receipt of salaries up to £1,000 a year will still suffer a reduction of 10 per cent., based on the 1930 standard, whereas members of Parliament will be in receipt of 15 per cent, less than in If 30. I cannot see any reason for the differentiation.  Unlike some members of this Parliament, who are not entirely dependent on their parliamentary allowances, I have no other source of income. A friend told me a. few days ago that two members of the House of Representatives had stated that they did not know that the bill authorizing a further restoration to them had passed through that House. He added, "If Messrs. Fisken and Street did not know what had taken place, they certainly were not worth a rise; and, indeed, were not worth even the amount they were then getting." This is one of those rare instances in which the Opposition can commend the Government on its action. I hope that, before long, the salaries of public servants will be restored fully, and that at the same time justice will be done to members of Parliament. 
I support the proposal to restore in part the allowance to Ministers. No honorable senator could fail to have been impressed &gt;by the figures mentioned last week hy  Senator Duncan-Hughes,,  when he compared the amount paid to Ministers to-day with what was considered appropriate remuneration for them at the beginning of federation. Unquestionably, the expansion of legislation and the increase of parliamentary business generally in recent years have been enormous. Even during my brief so journ in thi3 chamber, I have had convincing opportunities to observe the arduous nature of ministerial duties, and my sympathies are entirely with members of the Cabinet. I consider that only men specially fitted for the work and able to bear the strain of it can cope with the pressure placed upon them. Their whole time is devoted to protecting the interests of the people and promoting their welfare, and their own affairs must necessarily receive very little of their attention. Holding these views, I thoroughly approve of the restoration of ministerial salaries. The allowances of members must be approached from a different angle. Personal experiences and considerations influence one's opinion. In 1933, when a similar bill was before this Senate, I opposed it for the reasons which I then explained. But the present proposal of the Government seems to be based, first on reason, and secondly, on the improved financial position of the country. The 2^ per cent, variation is fully justified, but I deprecate comparisons between this Parliament and any section of the public or social services. Parliament, being supreme, is a thing apart, and nothing likely to impair its dignity or the respect in which it should be held by the public should be tolerated. The personal experience at which I have hinted amply demonstrates to my satisfaction that the present allowance granted to members is little enough, if the end in view is to be gained. 
Like my colleagues who hail from Western Australia, I have found the expenses of travelling and maintaining virtually two homes particularly burdensome. During the session, honorable senators from Western Australia are unable to maintain direct contact with their private business. Nor is it possible for them to avail themselves of the opportunity that a brief adjournment confers on most members to return to their homes and to devote some attention to their business interests. Consequently, I favour the proposal to restore in part the allowance of members, and also the suggestion made in another place that this allowance should be on a graduated scale, having regard to the remoteness of the constituency from Canberra and the area of the constituency. Western Australia has an area of nearly 1,000,000 square miles, the population is widely scattered, there is a diversity of interests, and only a small portion of the State is served by railways. The difficulties, time and expense involved in travelling to distant part3 of that State will be readily appreciated by honorable senators. Those who belong to the Labour party have said that the proposed increase of the allowances of members should be deferred until invalid and old-age pensions have been restored to £1 a week. Their objection is not sound. Without again emphasizing the present higher purchasing power of the pension, I remind the Senate that the total increase involved in this proposition to grant a partial restoration to members of Parliament is actually less than £3,000, whilst on the Estimates provision is made for an additional £1,000,000 to he distributed to pensioners. The time, I feel, is rapidly approaching when, unless some unexpected and surprising change in the affairs of the country occurs, Parliament will be obliged to choose between fewer pensioners at the present rate, or an increased number of pensioners receiving a lower amount. 
I am fully in accord with the proposal to make a partial restoration of the salaries of public servants.  Formerly  a civil servant myself, I have undergone the experience of having my income suddenly decreased by 20 per cent, per  annum, despite any commitments I may have had, and my  support will  be accorded to any reasonable instalment of relief that will hasten the return of public service salaries to the  status quo.  The Commonwealth  employs  an excellent body of civil servants, and a highly qualified corps of officers and others in the defence services, and I hope that every encouragement will be given to those persons whose value to the community has been demonstrated in so many ways.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has asserted that the Public Service is overmanned. My experience in watching the development of the Service, and more recently in assisting persons intimately associated with it, convinces me that, instead ofbeing overstaffed, the Service is undermanned, being, in fact, considerably below its strength in 1929. I hope that before we are called upon to deal with the Appropriation Bill reliable information regarding the growth of the Public Service will be before us. Even after the adjustments for which this bill provides, ministerial salaries will still be subject to a 17½ per cent. reduction, and the allowances of members to a 15 per cent. reduction. For the small measures of relief that the bill offers, members should support  it. 
.- I rise only to correct the widespread misapprehension among the Australian people concerning the purpose of this bill. In the interests of Australia it was found necessary to introduce special legislation a few years ago to meet a condition of national emergency. That legislation called upon every section of the community to make a sacrifice, but the Minister who introduced the bill stated distinctly that the burdens imposed would remain only until an improvement occurred in the financial position of the Commonwealth, and that year by year the measure would be reviewed, and as the finances warranted, relief would be extended. The bill before the Senate is merely a machinery measure to carry out the original intention of the Financial Emergency Act, and year by year, as the finances grow healthier, we may anticipate similar legislation to reduce the burden of sacrifice imposed upon various sections of the community. I am unable to understand the reasons for criticizing the proposal which is part and parcel of the Government's policy to give relief to those sections of the community which were called upon to make sacrifices under the financial emergency legislation. We are hoping that next year it will bepossible to give further relief, and that, in the course of time, the finances of the Commonwealthwill be stabilized and salaries and social services will be completely restored.  Senator DuncanHughes  to-day referred to those provisions in the bill dealing with the further restoration of allowances of Ministers and members of Parliament, and suggested that as the Parliament had been sitting for such a short period this year the restoration was hardly justified. I do not know what amount of work  Senator Duncan-Hughes  is called upon to do during recess, but as a senator for Tasmania I am more occupied withofficial work for my constituency then than during parliamentary sessions. I have no doubt that other honorable senators have the same experience, so the suggestion that the length of the parliamentary session should govern the allowances of members, is entirely without justification. 
I am glad that the Government has introduced this bill, and I hope that it will be possible, nextyear, to give still more relief. 
I endorse what  Senator Payne  has said concerning, the work of members of Parliament during a parliamentary recess, and though much may be said on both sides of the issues involved in this discussion, I feel sure that the balance of opinion is with  Senator Payne.  Labour senators believe that when a man is elected to this Parliament, he should devote the whole of his time to the duties devolving upon him as a representative of the people, and I would emphasize that, although the allowance made to members, may, to some people, appear to be high, the many demands made upon members reduce the effective salary by a substantial amount. When I entered this chamber three  years  ago, the allowance pay- able was £800 a year. Later, because th depression deepened, it was reduced to £750, aud senators accepted the reduction without a murmur. Two years later, with better times, it was restored to £825, and if this bill is passed, it will be £850 a year. 
I disagree with the statement by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that some of the Commonwealth Departments are overstaffed. Certainly, his remarks do not apply to any department of the Parliament. 
I am sure that the consensus of opinion is that public departments are, if anything, under-staffed, for it must be remembered that, during the depression, recruiting for the Public Services was practically suspended. For a period of about three years, the number of appointments made was almost negligible. The effects of this ill-advised course will be more severely felt ten or fifteen years hence, when there will be a lack of suitable officials to fill the higher positions in the Public Service. Nor can it be said truthfully that public servants are over-paid, or not fully employed. I speak with personal knowledge, because I was for some years in the Public Service myself, and I know that had I chosen to accept employment outside, my income for duties similar to those which I was carrying out as a public official, would have been  "&gt;0  per cent, higher. The same may be said of many other public servants in responsible positions. I know that, in some quarters, it is argued that public servants have a feeling of security not enjoyed by all persons in private employment, in that they may look forward to superannuation, upon retirement, and that they are not subjected to the fierce competition experienced in some sections of private industry. But, speaking generally, employees of the State earn every penny of their salaries. I do not believe in paying high salaries to officials unless they are rendering worth-while service to the State. I am not an advocate of waste. I believe in economy in the Public Service as well as in co-operative and private industries, and I speak with some knowledge of those forms of employment. 
Although he made the assertion this afternoon, I doubt that  Senator DuncanHughes  really believes that any of our departments are over-staffed. 
I am sure that the balance of opinion in this chamber and outside Parliament is against the honorable senator, because, as I have explained, for several years the recruiting for the Public Service was suspended, and some time must elapse before the various departments have their full complement. 
I do not like to discuss my own allowance as a member of this chamber, and I daresay that other honorable senators also are reluctant to mention what is after all, a personal matter, but as there are many critics outside this Parliament, it may be desirable to place our position clearly before the people by stating the facts.. I say this because, many years ago, when it was my privilege to edit a newspaper in Queensland, I criticized severely the decision of federal members to raise their allowances from £600 a year to £1,000. 
 I had no such ambition then. I criticized the proposal to increase members' allowances to £1,000 a year because, whilst the cost of living had increased it had not risen to an extent to justify an addition of £400 a year to the allowances of members of Parliament. When I became a senator for a term in 1922, some of my Labour colleagues twitted me about my earlier attitude to members' allowances, and I explained then that, as the fixing of allowances was a personal matter, much the better course would have been to refer the proposal to the Arbitration Court, and allow that tribunal to decide the issue, as it does in so many industrial claims. As a matter of fact this course was followed in New South Wales some years ago. A statement of the claim was placed before the court and after hearing evidence and counsels' addresses, the judge awarded to members of the State Parliament £875 a year. 

 Senator Duncan-Hughes has told us that as he entered the Senate when the allowance for members was £800 a year, he is not prepared to support any increase of the amount. Following the general reduction of 20 per cent. in 1931, a further reduction of  £  50 was made in 1932 because the depression, instead of lifting, deepened, and public servants were being asked to make further sacrifices. There was,however, a definite understanding that, when the financial position of the Commonwealth improved, public servants' salaries and members' allowances would be restored. After all members of Parliament may be regarded as public servants, because their duties essentially involve the rendering of service to the people. As we have been informed that owing to the improved financial position of the Commonwealth, the Government proposes to restore a portion of the salaries of public servants, it is only right that the allowances of members of Parliament should . be partially restored. I intend to take whatever is due to me because, as I shall show shortly, the expenses we incur are much heavier than most persons imagine. Some are under the impression that all our hotel and incidental expenses incurred in travelling are paid by the Government, and that the amount we receive is net. A majority of the members of this Parliament would, if engaged in professional or commercial activities, earn a much higher remuneration than they receive as an allowance. It is not generally known that members visiting Canberra to attend the sittings of Parliament have to pay £5 a week to live here, and that some have to incur the expense of maintaining two homes. When I was a public servant I received a travelling allowance sufficient to pay my hotel and incidental living expenses during the time that I was away from home, and did not have to use my salary at all. That is not so in the case of members of Parliament. As I understand the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has an important statement to make to the Senate, I ask leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 byleave  -  [4.7]. - To enable honorablesenators to appreciate the pre sent position of the Italo-Abyssinian dispute apart from the course of hostilities, which is fully reported in the press, I shall summarize briefly the information which the Government has received since I made my previous statement in the Senate on the 23rd September. 
On the 26th September, the League Council received the report of the Conciliation Committee, and decided that a committee consisting of all members of the Council except the parties to the dispute should . commence forthwith the preparation of a report in accordance with paragraph 4, article 15. 
It was made clear at the Council meeting that this decision would not interfere with attempts to secure by agreement bases for negotiation, as conciliation could continue until the very last moment. 
The invoking of article 15 meant that the dispute not having been settled by direct negotiation, conciliation, or other means, the Council would now proceed to draw up a report with recommendations. If this report was unanimously adopted, then a party to the dispute resorting to war would, under article 16, be  ipso facto  deemed to be an aggressor, and the Council would then consider the measures under article 16 relating to sanctions to be recommended to States members. 
If the report was not unanimously adopted, then the parties must, to avoid being deemed an aggressor, wait for at least three months before resorting to war. Even at the end of this period, other State members can still interfere for the maintenance of right and justice. In any case, once a dispute is before the Council, neither side can resort to war within a period of three months. The outbreak of hostilities on the 2nd October before this report had been presented, however, affected the normal procedure, and the Council was then faced with the responsibility of deciding whether either of the parties had resorted to war in violation of its League obligations, in which case the operation of article 16 relating to sanctions would have to be considered. It must not be overlooked, however, that article 16 does not automatically operate, as an interpretative resolution in October, 1921, provides for  co-ordinated action recommended by the Council, and not automatic or individual action. In the present dispute, as the Assembly has been convened for the 9th October, any contemplated action will be the result of agreement in the Assembly, and not merely in the Council. 
On the 5th October the report of the Council Committee was adopted. The report contained a full statement of the case without any concealment of facts. It considered the view submitted by Italy, and, while indicating that there was some substance in the charges against Abyssinia in regard to slavery and frontier raids, declared that these matters had not previously been brought under the notice of the League in such a way that they could have been dealt with. Consequently, they could not be relied on as justification for aggressive action. 
In view of the altered position brought about by the commencement of hostilities, the report made no recommendation, but laid it down that the violation of the Covenant must be brought to an end. 
The Italian representatives, in reporting on the Italian advance, claimed that it was an answer to the Abyssinian mobilization which constituted a threat to Italian colonies. At the same time, Abyssinia appealed for action by the League under article 16. As a consequence, the Council appointed a Committee of Six to consider the facts, and report whether a breach of the Covenant had been committed. 
The report of the Committee of Six was presented to the Council on the morning of Monday, the 7 th October, and after quoting the official communiques showing the Italian invasion of Abyssinia, recorded that members were not entitled, unless they had complied with the articles of the Covenant, to seek to remedy grievances by war. Measures of security taken by any State within its own borders did not absolve another from its obligations under the Covenant. Consequently, the Committee came to the conclusion that Italy had resorted to war in disregard of its solemn commitments under article 12of the Covenant of the League of Nations. 
The Council met on Monday afternoon to consider this report, and recorded a unanimous vote for its adoption, the parties to the dispute not voting. In the meantime, the General Assembly of the League, which, owing to the gravity of the international situation, was merely adjourned and not terminated, is called to meet again this afternoon, when -the reports and decision of the Council in regard to the dispute will be communicated to State members. Members will express their opinions, and probably a committee will be set up to recommend the measures to be taken for the application of the provisions of article 16 for any political and economic sanctions deemed to be practicable and effective. What these recommendations will be the Commonwealth Government does not know, and they will obviously depend on the extent to which League Council members are prepared to uphold the principles of the League Covenant. That in turn will depend mainly on the attitude of some of the powerful League members towards coercive measures against the aggressor. 
It can be regarded as definite, however, that nothing will be proposed which will not have the full support of the League Council members, or which may be regarded as likely to extend the area of hostilities or the number of participants. Beyond this statement, I feel it inadvisable to venture, as the dispute has reached a vital stage, and there is some ground for the hope that Italy may be satisfied with the vindication of Italian arms after a consolidation of its present position, and may be prepared to negotiate for a reasonable settlement, involving concessions on both sides. 
Members elected to the Commonwealth Parliament in 1932 received for two years only £750 instead of £800 per annum. If those elected for six years receive an additional £25 a year during the next three years, they will not average more than £800, which was the amount to which the allowance was reduced in 1931. By the further reduction made in 1932 we lost another £100 in two years; in the following year we  recovered £25, and for the next two years and nine months we may receive an additional £25 annually. The extra amount involved is so small that even  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  notwithstanding his promise to his constituents in 1931,  is  entitled to accept it.  The  representative of a Victorian constituency, who has done a good deal of aeroplaning in Australia, favours an increased allowance to those representing large electorates. Some members can travel all over their electorates in a few hours, but senators representing Queensland have an electorate half as big again as Abyssinia. A senator representing "Western Australia has a constituency twice as large as that country. Senators and members of the House of Representatives are supposed to visit every part of their electorate periodically, but, in many instances, that is quite impracticable. Recently a three weeks journey to a portion of Queensland cost me £25, and on a visit to another portion of that State during the previous year, I expended a similar amount. The cost involved in visiting the Darling Downs and the south-western portion of Queensland is  not  so great, but if one has to travel in the northern part of Queensland the expense is exceedingly heavy. If a Queensland senator occupied the whole of the parliamentary recess travelling in different portions of that State he would not only exhaust the whole of his parliamentary allowance, but also would have to borrow money in order to meet his commitments. As a representative of Queensland, it is impossible for  me  to visit every part of that State once  in  six years, but I do visit the larger districts and the more important cities and towns. The proposed partial restoration of members' allowance is necessary, and can be defended effectively by any honorable senator. 
I welcome the proposed restoration to public servants, whose salaries, after the passage of this bill, will still be subject  to  a reduction of 10 per cent. The percentage withheld from members of Parliament is larger, but we are receiving more than is paid to some public servants who are to benefit under the bill. Furthermore, I would like to  see  a more extensive  works policy initiated by this 
Government for the relief of unemployment. It seems to me that  this  Government is still attacking this problem in segments only; it is leaving to the States the real job, being content itself to act as a kind of intermediary between the bankers and the State governments. No honorable senator can feel at all satisfied about the finances of this country until we have entirely wiped out unemployment and restored to the families of the workers the conditions which they enjoyed before 1928. The invalid and old-age pension was slightly increased some time ago, but undoubtedly the full pension of £1 a week should be restored. The more purchasing power is distributed in this form and in the form of wages the better it will  be  for  the trading  community and for the country as a whole. With .regard to parliamentary salaries I hold the view, as a Labour advocate, that if we keep cutting down our own salaries in obedience to the clamour outside we shall simply be adding strength to the agitation for further reductions of wages and economic conditions generally. In this way we shall be participating in what has been aptly termed a poverty competition. I support the bill. 
.- I have no objection to the public servants being enabled to participate in any returning prosperity such as this country is enjoying at the present time.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  said that the Commonwealth Public Service is over-staffed. I remind him that the whole of the Commonwealth Public Service is not composed of permanent employees. For a period I was Postmaster-General and there were 7,000 temporary employees in that department alone. Unfortunately, when a person enters the Commonwealth Public Service, even in a temporary capacity, he regards himself as a permanent officer, and it is difficult to get such persons to adjust themselves again to other employment. There are peak periods in the constructional services, as when the Postal Department inaugurates a big works programme, and staffs have to be increased. Later  the  Government experiences difficulty in dispensing with the services of these temporary employees. Many members of  Parliament plead for the retention of such employees in the Service. That cannot he done. In 192S-29 we spent much loan money, and in many cases found it necessary almost to double existing staffs in order to meet demands for telephonic and other services. Difficulty arose when the Government had to demobilize those staffs, and that difficulty confronts the Government to-day. 
I admit there is a grave danger that the Public Service may become overstaffed. That fact was brought home to me when I was Postmaster-General. However, much of the trouble in this respect arises from the fact that we have in operation a Public Service Board and a Public Service Arbitrator. I have nothing to say against these officials. I regard them as honorable men who are doing good service in administering acts of this Parliament. However, in many services a working week of 36-^ hours is in operation, and that is one reason why some of the services rendered by government departments are costly. The short working week increases the staffing difficulties of an organization like the Postal Department, which has to operate uneconomical rosters. One of the first steps which should be taken to ensure that the Public Service will be kept at normal numerical strength, is to reconcile the duties of the Public Service Board and the Public Service Arbitrator. That task Parliament will have to face in the near future. 
With respect to parliamentary salaries I hold the view, as one who has had some experience as a minister, that ministers are underpaid. A minister's job is a full-time job. Those who have not had experience as ministers fail to realize the extent of the calls which are made on ministers' salaries. These calls, of which private members know nothing, may amount to hundreds of pounds during a year. Furthermore, close attention to ministerial duties, involves sacrifices of private business interests. 
I come now to the allowances to members. For fourteen years I represented a country constituency in the House of Representatives. Subsequently I calculated that I was worse off to the amount of £250 a year than a member representing a city constituency. The railways were useless to me, except when I was travelling from my home to Melbourne or to Canberra. During those fourteen years I travelled by motor car about 12,000 miles a year; at the rate of 5d. a mile this would work out at a total cost of £250 a year. Apart from the cost of motoring the incidental expenditure incurred by a parliamentarian in travelling through his electorate, is tremendous. So I contend that a representative of a city electorate is from £300 to £400 a year better off than a man representing a country electorate. I would like to see the allowance adjusted on a sliding scale, so that the financial positions of country and city members might" be, as far as practicable, equalized. It is only good exercise for a representative of a city electorate to tour his area, but a representative of a country division experiences great difficulty, and incurs considerable expense in maintaining personal contact with his electorate. 
We cannot discriminate between the payment made to a senator and that made to a member of the House of Representatives, but it should be possible to put city and country members on a more equal financial footing than at present. 
 Senator DuncanHughes  has been taken to task for what has been called his inconsistency, in advovocating  an increase of ministerial salaries, while opposing an increase of the allowances to private members. The two matters are not analogous.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  compared the salaries paid to Ministers to-day with those paid to Ministers in 1901, and contrasted the growth of ministerial responsibilities with the slight increase of portfolios, and of the salaries attaching thereto.  Senator Brown  said that if ministerial duties have increased to such an extent as to warrant additional payment, as had been contended by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  the duties of the Commonwealth Public Service must have increased correspondingly. But  Senator Brown  overlooked the fact that the number of public servants has been continually increased since 1901, and at a rate far greater than the increase which has taken place in the number of Ministers. Since the inception of federation the number of Ministers has been increased from seven to ten, whilst in the same period the number of civil servants has been increased by thousands. 
That may be so. I recognize the force of the argument used by  Senator Payne  that this bill is merely a machinery measure to give effect to the promises made, incidental to the passing of the Financial Emergency Act. I do not agree with the statement that the Commonwealth Public Service is over-staffed. I think there is plenty of work for the present number of Commonwealth public servants. Neither do I agree with the contention of  Senator J.  V. MacDonald that public servants sacrificed great opportunities in private careers by remaining in the Service. If the honorable senator himself did that, I cannot understand such a lack of canniness on the part of one whose name includes the prefix " Mc ".  My objection to the bill is that, although it was understood that emergency legislation sacrifices should be lightened when the financial circumstances warranted such a step, the depression is far from over. Certainly Australia is enjoying conditions to-day better than those of two or three years ago ; economic conditions have improved but not to an extent that would justify an increase of the salaries of public servants. The old saying that a man should be master in his own house applies equally to governments. The Commonwealth should be the master of its own affairs, but its finances are derived from the public purse. Public servants employed by State governments are still suffering reductions of their salaries. They are equally as important, hardworking, and deserving as are Commonwealth public servants, and until their salaries are restored we are not justified in granting more money to the servants of the Commonwealth. 
 I support the bill, although I do not think that it goes far enough. In my remarks on the budget I submitted figures which disprove the rather pessimistic contentions of 

 Senator James McLachlan. I showed to the satisfaction, I believe, of many honorable senators that Australia is again on the up grade financially, and for that reason our depression complex should be abandoned. Commencing from the 1st January next the State civil servants in Western Australia will have their salaries fully restored. In addition, those receiving salaries under £350 a year, will not have to pay any emergency or hospital taxes. Commonwealth public servants in Western Australia are as much entitled to a full restoration of salaries as are the employees of the Western Australian Government. Unfortunately, the salaries of State public servants in Western Australia are lower than those of any other State service, but that is" a matter which does not concern the Commonwealth Parliament. 
On hia return from abroad the head of the Government was welcomed, in my opinion, justifiably, as Australia's lion-hearted Prime Minister. There is nothing lion-hearted about this bill. When we reflect on the great strides that Australia has made towards financial recovery, this measure suggests the courage of a rabbit rather than of a lion. I agree with those honorable senators who have said that Ministers are greatly under-paid, and had hoped that  Senator Gibson  would go further and tell the public of Australia something of the nature of the calls made on them. There is no justification for the secrecy which is observed in regard to the pooling of salaries. In the public Interest the amount paid to each Minister and Whip should be made known. 
I support the proposal to restore to public servants a trifling 2£ per cent, of their salary, a:nd join issue with  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  who says that the Public Service is over-manned. I should like the honorable senator to visit the north-western district of Western Australia, and see the conditions under which public servants work there. As there are no railways or roads in that district all travelling must necessarily be done by sea. In the Postmaster-General's Department, for instance, there is no overmanning in Western Australia. Indeed, on my return from that part of the State, I made representations for an improvement of the conditions of the men em- ployed there, and am pleased to say that they were successful. In that part of the Commonwealth, public servants work under conditions must less congenial than those in Queensland, to which reference has been made.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  may know more about the Public Service in South Australia than I do, but I doubt whether, even in that State, the Service is over-manned. It certainly is not over-manned in "Western Australia. I support the bill, and hope that within the next six months the new Treasurer will be able to re-cast his budget in the light of increased prosperity throughout the Commonwealth. 
 The bill before u3 is an indication that Commonwealth revenue is more buoyant than for some years, but that does not necessarily mean that every section of the community is sharing in the greater prosperity of the country as a whole. It is true that commercial enterprises are again paying dividends, whilst the increased Customs revenue is evidence of greater importations than formerly; but our export industries, upon the success of which Australia's ability to pay its overseas indebtedness depends, are still languishing, and the heavy burden of taxation remains. The proposal contained in this bill will not have any substantial effect on the country's stability, but it will provide those engaged in industry with a ground for making demands for increased pay which, if granted, will increase the cost of production, and the cost of living. The best contribution that this Parliament can make towards the country's prosperity is a reduction of the burden of taxation. The electors look to it for such relief. 
The people of Australia generally have no idea of the heavy demands made on Ministers. In my opinion, they are poorly paid in comparison with private members of this Parliament. 
I do not know that any honorable senator is sufficiently acquainted with the duties and emoluments of British Ministers to make such a comparison. 

 Senator Gibson, when speaking on this measure a few moments ago, said that Public Service salaries were determined either by the Public Ser vice Board, or the Public Service Arbitrator, and that Parliament merely voted the money to provide the rates so determined. That may be; but the ever-increasing cost of Government, both Commonwealth and State, is so out of proportion to the increase of the number of taxpayers, that it cannot be allowed to continue. Greater efforts must be made to co-ordinate the work of the Commonwealth and the States, in order to avoid the duplication which now exists. The avoidance of such duplication, with a view to reducing administrative costs, is a matter to which the several governments of Australia will have to give attention in the near future. I am aware that something has already been accomplished in this direction at Premiers conferences, but much still remains to be done. 
Two years ago I opposed a restoration of the allowances of members of Parliament. I still think that the time is inopportune to increase the amount paid to them. 
In my opinion, the time is not yet opportune for any restoration. 
I am opposed to the provision in the bill to increase the allowances of members. 
 As a newcomer to the Senate I hesitated before participating in the debate, particularly as two of my colleagues from South Australia who are tried politicians have already addressed themselves to this measure. I do not propose to oppose the increase of Ministers' allowances, for the fulltime nature of their duties unquestionably justifies the restoration. During my election campaign, in answer to a question, I stated from the platform that while the general unemployment position remained  so difficult, especially with regard to youths leaving school, I would not support any restoration of the allowances of members. Between that time and the present no new evidence has been adduced to cause me to change my opinion. If the Government is of opinion that a further restoration of the salaries of public servants should be made at this juncture, I am prepared to support that step, though  Senator James  McLachlan indicated one major obstacle in the way. He said that a further restoration of Commonwealth salaries would be difficult to justify while civil servants employed by many of the State governments are still suffering substantial reductions. My hope is that the time will quickly arrive when the States will be able to make complete restoration to their employees. I am not in a position to discuss constructively the statements a'bout the over-staffing of the Commonwealth Public Service, but.uo more or no fewer persons should be employed than the work requires. 

 .- Senator Payne has explained most clearly that the proposed restoration of the allowances of members and of the salaries of public servants is not an increase, but is the return of something taken away from them during the depression when every one had to share in the common sacrifice. I did hope that the Government would be able to make a greater restoration to public servants but the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  is a better judge of the financial condition of the country than are honorable senators, and I am content with the present restoration knowing that the Government is on the right road. Next year, perhaps, the progress along this road to complete restoration will be considerably accelerated. Public servants recognized that it was necessary for them to make sacrifices, and if they are not satisfied with the present proposal, they will at least be gratified to know that their remuneration is on the upward grade again. The allowances paid to Ministers are hopelessly inadequate. The world must laugh at Australia on account of the allowances it grants to Ministers; the smallness of these payments suggests that we labour under an inferiority complex. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  head director of the Commonwealth - a continent of 3,000,000 square miles - receives less than £2,000 a year and his Ministers get even less. Such payments are ridiculous. No business man conducting a concern of any magnitude would expect capable management if he paid such inadequate salaries as are paid to Ministers. About twelve years ago the allowances of members of the Commonwealth Parliament were increased to £1,000. Some controversy over the increase occurred at the time, but at least half a dozen elections have since taken place and the public of Australia have accepted the increase as having been quite justified. Whatever may have occurred in South Australia, most members of this Parliament were elected on the £1,000 a year basis. When the depression overtook the country members set a wise example to the people bv voluntarily reducing their allowances, iu token of their willingness to share in their constituents' sacrifices. But there was the understanding that when the depression departed their allowances should be restored to £1,000. Whether that amount is sufficient or not is not the issue in this debate. Did members have to consult their electors before reducing their own allowances? They had not. As Australia is getting out of the depression members are entitled to share in the general improvement. At £1,000 per annum they are by no means overpaid. In the few weeks that I have been in Canberra, I have realized that I would complete my term of six years a relatively poor man had I not a .business of my own. However, the contention that brought me to my feet was that the civil service is overstaffed. One honorable senator asserted that in a period of depression civil servants had less work to do than in an era of prosperity. To that I reply that during the last five years administrative officers have had almost twice as much work to do as they do in normal times. The post office is a service department, as it were, and probably employees in that branch, had not had so much to do because of the reduced volume of business. But relief works and new schemes considered by Parliament as palliatives of the depression threw more work on the shoulders of most public servants than they had to do during the peak period of prosperity. The public service cannot be organized and conducted on lines similar to a factory or business. In private enterprise if output decreases, or sales are falling off, employees have to be dismissed. But in the Public Service an officer is just as valuable in depression as in prosperity; his work does not diminish, and it may even increase. If his salary was appropriate to his work in normal times it is appropriate in adversity too. Salaries were reduced only because all other classes of the community were suffering severely from the depression, and it was regarded as proper and necessary that members of Parliament and civil servants should share in the sacrifice endured by persons in other walks of life. I think that the bill is on the right lines, though I repeat I would like to see greater restoration made to Ministers and civil servants. The Government is to be commended for having introduced this measure. 
[4.57]. - To view this bill in its proper perspective members should cast their minds back to the time when the depression first made its influence felt in Australia, and all governments were summoned to frame measures to meet the storm.  Sir John  Latham, and I, who sat in Opposition then, were invited to the historic conference of Commonwealth and State representatives in Melbourne, and I remember vividly the debates that took place on the general scheme for a rehabilitation of the country. Representatives of governments of varying political complexions - Labour, Nationalist, and Nationalist-Country party - attended, and every delegate recognized that the desperate situation required exceptional measures. The national income hod dropped by over £200,000,000, and the revenues of all governments had decreased. The conference devised two remedies. On the one hand they cut down their expenditure by shortening essential services, stopping public works and reducing salaries. On the other hand they increased their revenues by imposing special forms of taxation. These two methods were co-ordinated in an effort to balance Commonwealth and State budgets because it was realized that the only way to restore confidence was to arrest the drift in government finance. 
These measures became part of the Premiers plan, and  Senator Payne  was accurate in every detail when he stated that it was considered part of that plan that, as the financial position improved, these special measures should be modified. That modification was to be not merely in respect of salaries, but also in respect of special taxation. To the credit of Commonwealth and State Governments it can be said that before they began to restore salaries they commenced to reduce the burden of this special taxation. If honorable senators will refer to the details they will find that already the Commonwealth Parliament has remitted taxes to the amount of nearly £11,000,000 per annum. Later the governments commenced, to restore salaries. 

 Senator Duncan-Hughes and other honorable senators mentioned the overstaffing of the Public Service, and criticized the Government for having failed to learn the lesson of the depression. That is quite unfair and incorrect. I have the report of the Public Service Board of Commissioners for 1934, and for comparative purposes I have obtained figures for 1929 and ensuing years. In the Commonwealth Service in 1929 there were 28,147 permanent officers, 5,012 exempt officers, and 3,S70 temporary officers, making a total of 37,029. The aggregate in 1930 was 36.831. Next year, after the Commonwealth and State Governments had taken action under the Premiers plan, the total fell to 32,312, and in 1932 to 32,236. In the following year 27,030 permanent officers and 5,528 temporary and exempt officers were employed ; total, 32,558. In 1934 the permanent officers were reduced to 26,977, which was the least number employed for many years, but the number of temporary and exempt officers increased to 8,026. Therefore, although the, total rose to 35,003, although that number is still 1,828 below the total for 1930 and 2,026 below the total for 1929. These figures showclearly that, in the last few years, there has been a considerable contraction of the number of employees in the Public Service. 

 Senator Leckie was correct when he stated that in some respects the depression had been responsible for an increase of governmental activities and, therefore, an increase of the number of employees in certain departments. An examination of the figures for the various departments will amply bear out his statement. But before dealing with that matter, I direct attention to the figures to be found on page 22 of the report of the Public Service Board giving the total number of officers employed in each department of the Commonwealth Public Service as well as their total and average salaries. The total salaries paid for the year ended the 30th June, 1931, was £8,162,869, compared with £7,115,167 for the year ended the 30th June, 1934. The average salary per officer in 1931 was £288.10; in 1934, it was £263.75. Thus there was a substantial fall last year, in both the total and average salaries of officers of the Public Service as compared with 1931. 
Because of the criticism in some quarters that in making a partial restoration of salaries the Commonwealth is not acting fairly towards the States which were partners with the Commonwealth in implementing the Premiers plan, I wish to emphasize that if there were a complete restoration of salaries to the Service under the Public Service Act, the total salary bill would still be £1,066,000 below the amount paid in 1930, owingto the automatic adjustments due to the fall of the cost of living - an overall reduction of the 1930 rates by 12½ per cent. State public servants' salaries in most of the States were not affected by cost of living variations, whereas all Commonwealth salaries, even where restoration has been made, are still reduced on account of the decline of the cost of living. It is well that I should state these facts in order to dissipate the feeling existing in some quarters that we are not acting fairly by the States. 

 Senator Leckie's statement that there had been anactual increase of the work of certain Commonwealth departments as a direct result of the depression,, is borne out by the figures in this report. Appendix B, on page 23, gives the number of employees in the several departments, and, as might be expected, it registers increases of employees in those departments which have been called upon to do additional work during and since the depression. One is the Department of the Attorney-General. A superficial examination of the activities of that department might suggest that it was overmanned ; but those of us who were in this Parliament during the Lang regime in New South "Wales, know only too well that in the depression years the department was much overworked and understaffed. Responsible officers were called upon to work a great deal of overtime in preparing special legislation to meet the pressing needs of the time. Therefore, we need not be surprised at the increase of the number of permanent employees from 233 in 1930 to 288 last year.  
Another department that has been overworked for some years is that of the Treasury. Prior to the depression, an employee in the Treasury might reasonably have expected to enjoy a comparatively peaceful life, but during and since the worst phase of the depression it has been called upon to do a great deal of work in connexion with the initiation of sales tax and other special taxation measures. This explains the increase of the number of permanent employees from 947 in 1930 to 1,422 in 1934. The necessity for the Commonwealth, owing to the decline of the national income, to give its attention to the opening of new channels for trade, led to the creation of the Commerce Department, the permanent employees of which now number 524. The figures which I have quoted are, I think, significant. They show that, notwithstanding the increase of employees in some departments, due to activities forced upon the Commonwealth by the depression, there has been a reduction of the total number of employees, as well as reductions of the total and average salaries paid, so there can be no justification for the charge, made in some quarters, that the Public Service is overmanned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a. second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 - 
Section 9 of the principal act is amended - 
by omitting the words " seventeen and one-half per centum " and inserting in their stead the words "fifteen per centum ". 

 Section proposed to be amended - 


 Notwithstandinganything contained in any act, the total amount of allowances or of salary and. allowances . . . shall be reduced as follows: - 


 Where the amount does not exceed one thousand pounds - by seventeen and one-half per centum. 

Amendment (by  Senator DuncanHughes)  put - 
That  paragraph (a) be  left out. 
[5.26].  - I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The proposed expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund on additions, new works, and buildings for the year ending the 30th June, 1936, aggregates £3,352,230. The following table shows how this amount has been distributed, and also the actual expenditure for the financial year 1934-35 :  - 

<graphic href="147332193510095_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amount provided from Consolidated Revenue for new works is £2,300,000 greater than the amountexpended from revenue last year. This is accounted for mainly by increased expenditure on defence and postal works. Increased defence expenditure amounting to £667,000 is necessary to carry out the second stage of the three years defence programme. The amount provided for postal works is £1,650,000 compared with expenditure of £202,000 yast year, or an increase of £1,448,000. The increase is due to expenditure on postal works last year having been almost entirely from loan fund. The amount expended from that source last year was £1,240,000. The total amount actually provided this year for postal works, including the balance of last year's loan appropriation, is £1,891,000, compared with a total expenditure last year from revenue and loan fund of £1,443,000, or an increase of £448,000. This year owing to the demand on loan money it has been found necessary to provide that the bulk of the expenditure on postal works shall be paid from revenue instead of from loan moneys. The total amount estimated to be expended on Commonwealth works from revenue . and from loan fund . during 1935-36 is £4,379,000, compared with an actual expenditure last year of £2,575,000, or an increase of £1,804,000. In addition, £1,707,000 of the trust account specially appropriated from the accumulated  excess receipts of the Consolidated RevenueFund at the 30th June, 1934, will be expended on defence works. The expenditure from this source last year was £934,000. Honorable senators will see that theworks programme for this year represents a considerable increase on the actual expenditure of last year. Bythis means it is proposed to meet the everincreasing demands for revenueproducing works, services, &amp;c., which have been seriously retarded by the financial stringency of recent years, and at the same time to provide a considerable measure of assistance in respect of unemployment. 
In these comparisons no allowance is made for the appropriations approved by Parliament last year for financial grants to the States for unemployment relief works. It is estimated that this year £1,216,750 will be made available for that purpose. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
On the 29th September,  Senator Brand  asked me the following questions :  - 
What is the number of returned soldiers temporarily employed as linesmen, conduit workers and mechanics in the PostmasterGeneral's Department. Victoria- - 
What is the number of returned soldiers engaged to carry out flood damage repairs and work in connexion with the Victorian centenary celebrations? 
If the answers to 1 (a) and (b) are not identical, how many of the discharged men are married, and what is the total period of temporaryemployment of each one prior to 1st July, 1934? 
I am now in a position to furnish the honorable senator with the following information :  - 
The temporary staff employed on the dates mentioned was - 
1st July, 1934 - Linesmen, 265: conduit workers, 22: mechanics, 27: total, 314. 
21st September, 1936 - Linesmen, 297; conduit workers,69; mechanics, 69; total, 435. 
Of the totals given, about 95 per cent. were returned soldiers. 2.It is impracticable to furnish this information, because men are engaged from day to day as the need arises in various parts of theState, and are also employed for varying periods. In many instances, they are engaged to relieve permanentofficers whose services may be needed elsewhere. 
The number of temporary men employed in September, 1935, considerably exceededthese employed as at 1st July, 1935. 
A few days ago  Senator Foll  asked me a question concerning the production of synthetic petrol. As it may be of interest generally to honorable senators, I shall read a letter which I addressed to him with reference to that matter. It is as follows: - 
Dear  Senator Foll, 
With reference to the question which you asked in the Senate on 1st October, 1935, relative to the production of synthetic petrol, it would appear that the product to which you refer is that mentioned in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1st October, which deals with a demonstration test of a motor fuel called " Corethstoff ". The constituents of the fuel were stated to be raw spirit, oils of vegetable base, 13per cent, of water, and a secret " binding " agent. In a test at Brooklands, a car registered 95 miles per hour on this mixture, and only 85 on petrol. 
It is almost certain that the main component of the fuel was alcohol, with which water mixes readily. The addition of a blending agent - called in the press report a "binding " agent - points to a certain amount of petroleum spirit being present also. The purpose of the blending agent is to make the petroleum soluble in aqueous alcohol, so as to prevent the separation of the fuel into two layers. A number of compounds fulfilling this function are known, but the nature of the agent used on this particular occasion was not disclosed. 
It is well known that alcohol blends develop more power from a given engine than petroleum spirit. It is for this reason that alcohol is commonly used as a constituent of motor fuels in racing cars. 
Stabilized alcohol blends containing 20 per cent. or so of water can be used in an engine if desired. But there is no merit in the presence of water in the mixture, for it has no fuel value. In so far as the addition of water is concerned, the demonstration is what is usually termed a " stunt ". It is not even original. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the PostmasterGerieral if it is a fact that the Broadcasting Commission is advertising, through the national stations., for sale at1s., copies of a book on cricket which it. has compiled? If so, and in view of the fact that the commission pays no taxes, and the Government's policy is to encourage private enterprise, so as to increase the volume of employment, does he consider that this form of competition by a public utility with private booksellers, publishers and distributors is in accordance with the letter and spirit of the charter of the commission? 
Although I shall ask the honorable senator to give notice of his question, I think I am right in saying that the compilation and sale of a booklet of the kind mentioned is within the powers of the commission. 
.  -  by leave  -When speaking yesterday of the alleged decision of the meeting called to consider the leadership of Country party members in this chamber, I did not feel at liberty to refer to the proceedings at that meeting, because I had no reason then to believe that  Senator Hardy  would do other than accept my statement, express regret that he had been unfortunate in the use of the term " leader of the Country party in the Senate," state that he had merely been appointed to act as the representative of Country party senators in regard toformal matters affecting procedure - a position occupied for some years by  Senator Carroll-and  say that there had been no intention or desire to force leadership on Country party senators who, in the past, have always enjoyed complete freedom of action and speech in the Senate. If  Senator Hardy  had done the manly thing, the incident would have been ended. It is regrettable that, instead of adopting this course, he gave honorable senators an inaccurate report of the proceedings at two party meetings. Both his statements were seriously inaccurate; but, if they were accepted, no further proof would bo required of the danger of party decisions to our free parliamentary institutions. 

 His statement yesterday compels me to give the facts. In the first place,  Senator Hardy  told us that, at a meeting of Country party members of the Senate and the House of Representatives, it had been decided to elect a leader of the Country party in the Senate. If this statement were correct, such action would betoken a measure of party dictation which, so far as I know, does not exist in the constitution of any political party in. the Commonwealth. Honorable senators who would accept the decisions of a meeting of other honorable senators, let alone a meeting at which they were outnumbered by nearly three to one, would, in my opinion, be unworthy of their position a3 trustees and guardians of the rights of the States and the liberties of the people. 
Happily, the charge which  Senator Hardy  has made against the Country party in this connexion is entirely false. It is true that a Country party member for New South Wales suggested that such an appointment should be made, but  Dr. Earle  Page, with that wisdom, knowledge and good sense which have distinguished his whole political career, said that the matter had nothing to do with the House of Representatives, and refused to permit discussion on the subject. I hurl back at  Senator Hardy  his statement that political domination of the nature suggested by him is possible in the Country party, or that Country party senators have, in my knowledge, accepted dictation from their fellow senators, or from the members of the House of Representatives, who outnumber us more than two to one. 

 Senator Hardy's next, and equally serious, inaccuracies relate to a meeting of Country party senators held last Thursday. it was the first separate  meeting  of the Country party senators which had been held since I have been a member of this chamber, and after this experience I should think the experiment is not likely to be repeated, because the meeting proved to be a complete failure. 
We discussed a letter which my colleague,  Senator Carroll,  had sent to each Country party senator, strongly opposing the suggestion to appoint a leader. It was pointed out that the Senate existed for the protection of State rights, and that members of our party necessarily held entirely divergent views on many subjects of public importance. The impossibility of reconciling the views of all Country party senators under one leadership in regard to such matters as the sugar embargo and the tariff was instanced. This view was adopted by. the meeting, which unanimously decided not to appoint a leader, as there was no necessity for the creation of such a position. 
For many years  Senator Carroll  had been authorized to act for the Country party in the Senate as the channel of communication with Ministers in connexion with the more formal business of this chamber, and it was decided to adhere to that practice.  Senator Carroll  was absent through ill health, so  Senator Hardy  was elected to act in that capacity in future. He and I were the only candidates ; but I emphasize that the position has never been that of leader of the Country party senators. Had I been elected, I should never have regarded myself as being more than a channel of communication between Ministers and my colleagues in regard to formal matters. Nor would I have made any announcement of the appointment in the Senate, believing that the occasion did not warrant it. Had senators of the Country party decided to elect a leader in a non-party House, I would not have been a candidate, and would have withdrawn from the meeting.  Senator Hardy's  election implied no interference with the freedom of speech or action which Country party senators have enjoyed for a decade, untrammelled by any obligation to follow a party leader or act other than as their consciences might, dictate. After the election.  Senator 
Hardy stated the exact terms in which he proposed to advise the Senate that he would be the representative of the Country party in this chamber in regard to formal matters in the future. That detailed statement did not suggest that he had been elected to the leadership of the Country party in the Senate, but was merely an intimation that a state of affairs which had existed for ten years would be continued. The statement was approved by the senators present; but three hours later  Senator Hardy  made an entirely different, and wholly unauthorized, announcement in this chamber that he had been appointed leader of the Country party in the Senate. In my long experience of public affairs I know of no precedent for a statement approved in specific terms at a party meeting having been altered bv the person to whom its publication had been entrusted, and an entirely different announcement made. I shall not further comment, on  Senator Hardy's  action, except to say that in the interests of justice, the truth should be disclosed, however unpleasant it may be. To keep silent would be to condone  Senator Hardy's  action, and permit him to appoint himself as the leader of the Country party in the Senate, when, in fact, the party decided to continue without a leader. Were I to allow such an action to pass unchallenged, I should be recreant to my trust as a member of this assembly. 
I desire to define my attitude in clear and unmistakable terms. Like every other senator, I am here as the representative of the people of my State, pledged to them to place their interests before any party or other consideration. I exercise my vote as  I think will best serve the interests of Western Australia. In the performance of my public duties I do not require, and will not accept, leadership from any senator. I accept the full responsibility for my words and actions. So long as I remain a. member of the National Parliament I shall never permit any other senator to profess to express my views. I believe that that is the attitude of a large majority of honorable senators. For over ten years Country party senators have sat in this chamber without having appointed a leader to speak for them. I follow no leader, and require no leadership as to how my vote 

 Senator W.  B. Johnston.  shall be exercised. Indeed, no honorable senator with an atom of selfrespect, or the faintest conception of his responsibility, would accept leadership of this nature. I resent  Senator Hardy's  attempt to force party domination and caucus methods ou his colleagues. For any honorable senator to attempt to make the Senate a playground in which Country party senators play the game of follow-my-leader, with the " Cromwell of the Riverina " as the leader, would be to attempt to degrade the Senate. Are Country party senators so deficient in their knowledge of national affairs that they need the guidance and leadership of  Senator Hardy  or any other senator? Have they no minds of their own? In any case, against whom is the party to be led? Is it to be led against the three senators of the Labour party, or against the composite Government, which includes a number of Country party Ministers? Perhaps the sudden attempt to organize the Country party is due to a desire to assist the Government to retain the embargo on the importation of sugar, because that is the only legislative proposal of the Government that the Senate is likely to reject. I advise my colleague,  Senator Badman,  to be careful about this leadership joke. Or it may be that an attempt is being made to dissuade me from advocating secession by Western Australia and drawing attention to the disabilities of Western Australia under federation. 
The honorable senator's remarks are outside the scope of the leave granted to him. 
 by leave  - I, too, wish to make a statement. During my life I ' hav:tried to live honorably and decently. On one occasion, as a matter of honour, I resigned my position in the State Parliament as the representative of my native district. I hope that while I am a member of the Senate I shall never be suspected of any underhand action. In fairness to myself and those other honorable senators who were present at the meeting of the Country party to which  Senator Johnston  has referred, I feel it incumbent on me to say that  Senator Hardy  has not made any statement that he was not fully authorized to make. The members of the party present at the meeting authorized the statement made by  Senator Hardy,  and I now affirm its truth. 
Can the Leader of the Senate make available to honorable senators and to members of the House of Representatives, a copy of the statement made by the Italian delegate to the League of Nations, giving reasons for the action Italy is faking in Abyssinia, together with the reply of the Abyssinian delegate? 
Has the Minister in charge of Development received a report, on the grain alcohol industry in Australia, and, if so, will he table the report in the Senate? 

 - Mr. Rogers, the Commonwealth Fuel Advise!1, has submitted a report on the subjectIf sufficient copies are available, the report will be tabled in the "Senate; otherwise a copy will be placed in the Library for the information of honorable senators. 
Has the PostmasterGeneral a reply to the question I asked prior to the last recess regarding the supply of uniforms to letter carriers? 
An exhaustive report on the subject is available in my office in the Senate, where the honorable senator may peruse it. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In view of the success of the Fairbridge Farm School in Western Australia, and thi' apparent necessity for a substantial increase of the population of the  Commonwealth,  has the Government considered the advisability of establishing in various parts oi the Commonwealth similar farm schools as a definite aid to such increase? 
Has the Government approached the  British  Government to ascertain -what financial assistance would be forthcoming if such a scheme were established? 
If not. will the Government give early consideration to the feasibility and practicability of something being done in this direction ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  has supplied the following answers : - 
The matter of assistance in the establishment of farm schools on the lines of the Fairbridge Farm School, in Western Australia, is one which primarily concerns the governments of the State*. The question of financial co-operation by the Commonwealth Government with the government of any State which may grant assistance towards the establishment of a farm school of this kind will receive consideration should occasion arise. 
No. 
See answer to 1. 
 There is little, if anything, in this measure which honorable senators on this side of the chamber are likely to oppose. I regret, however, that in the allocation of funds to various departments nothing has been provided to improve the unsatisfactory conditions, to which I have previously directed attention, at Molonglo and the Causeway, Canberra. These settlements are a discredit to the Federal Capital Territory, and I ask Ministers in this chamber to use their influence with the Government to see that an adequate amount is placed at the disposal of the Department of the Interior to provide more suitable accommodation for the people now living there. Honorable senators who are not acquainted with the condition of affairs should visit these settlements to see how discreditable they are to Canberra. 
Apparently no provision has been made to improve the disgracefulconditions existing at the Brisbane Post Office. I do not know how old the building is; but I think I am safe in saying that it is as old as I am, and I have had very many years of service. The building, which is in a state of disrepair, is surrounded by structures noble in design and of excellent construction, should be remodelled or a new building should be erected. Those who have seen it must have been impressed with its disgraceful condition. According to a statement of the Deputy Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Queensland, it is not proposed to remodel or rebuild it, because of the opinions held by some as to what should be done in the neighbourhood. 
A new building is urgently required. I shall refrain from dealing at length with the accommodation provided in Brisbane for federal members, because I have been advised unofficially that in the building nowbeing erected in Anzac Square, and which will be ready for occupation shortly, reservations have been made for the accommodation of federal members. I am ashamed of the accommodation provided in Brisbane. There is no privacy, andinvalid and old-age pensioners have to climb a badly lighted semi-spirai staircase on the  steps  of which the lead sheets are badly worn. At times, persons interviewing a federal member have narrowly avoided serious accidents. 
Probably four which can be used by members. There are also two rooms used for the housing of books and newspapers, but these form a kind of "no man's land," because honorable senators deciding to use them at any time are liable to discover that a member of the House of Representatives, who rarely visits the city, has installed himself in them. 
I claim that representatives of Queensland should have accommodation in Brisbane for the transaction of their official business as good as that provided in other cities. 
That is not my responsibility. How honorable senators from South Australia can retain their self-respect with the limited accommodation made available to them in Adelaide passes my understanding. If the accommodation in Adelaide is the worst, that in Brisbane is the next worst. 
I notice a large increase of the proposed vote for the Defence Department. I am not going to criticize that increase. It is the job of this Government guided. I presume, by its experts to attend to this matter, and apparently it has decided that the extra funds for this department are essential to the defence of this country. I point out, however, that eminent authorities, not only in Australia, but also from overseas, differ very widely as to whether this money is being spent in the wisest way. The policy  of the Australian Labour party is to provide for the adequate defence of Australia. I am not sure that the money proposed to be allocated for this purpose will be spent in the most effective way to ensure that Australia will be adequately defended. However, we are told that while doctors differ, mere laymen must not express an opinion. Perhaps that dictum applies in this instance, but it is the Government's .job to deal with this matter, and I presume it is doing so in an intelligent manner. 
For some time past there has been an agitation by citizens of Cairns, North Queensland, for the erection of a new customs house there. I have made inquiries with respect to this matter, but I have failed to secure any definite information as to the intentions of the Government* I believe that a sum was allocated for this work in the Estimates last year, but, judging by the reply to a question which I asked, the money was not expended for reasons of economy. I ask the Leader of the Senate to inform us whether anything has been done in connexion with this proposal, or whether the Government proposes to undertake it in the near future. I understand that the experts of the department concerned are of the opinion that it would be entirely uneconomic to attempt to improve the existing customs house at Cairns, and that nothing short of a new building will meet the city's requirements in that respect. 
Unlike the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I do not intend to confine my remarks on this measure to the material facts embodied in the bill, but shall submit some thoughts concerning the policy incorporated in it. It is immaterial whether these public works are to be financed out of revenue or out of loan money. The fact remains that a vigorous public works policy has been formulated, and is being carried out, by this Government. I was particularly interested in a speech made on this subject last week by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  and I propose to reply in detail to the opinions which the honorable senator expressed. Critics of public works programmes, whether initiated by the Commonwealth Government or by State governments, are divided into two groups - first, those who, irrespective of political creed, believe that the Government is not spending enough money on public works; and, secondly, those who claim that the Government is spending far too much in that direction. I propose to analyse the views of both these groups. 
When  Senator Duncan-Hughes  was speaking last week, I asked him whether it was not a guiding principle with central banking authorities that a vigorous public works programme should be adopted by governments to help to lift a country out of a depression. The honorable senator replied that he was not prepared to say whether or not that was so, but that, if it were so, it appeared to him to be a wrong principle. It is quite evident that the honorable senator believes that it is wrong for any government to adopt a policy of public works in an endeavour to help the community in a time of economic stress The honorable senator then went on - 
I propose to substantiate my view by quoting statements made by three of the leading men in Great Britain ... On the second day of the debate (7th November - on unemployment) the Prime Minister  (Mr. Ramsay Macdonald)  indicated not, indeed, an actual policy from the side of the Government, but the manner in which it was approaching the problem. He began by ruling out definitely an extension of public relief works. This method, he said, had been given the fullest possible trial by the late Labour Government and its results had been disappointing, since for the expenditure of every million pounds they had been able to keep not more tha.n 4,000 men in work. In any case, the country could no longer afford to spend money on schemes the permanent value of which was doubtful. The one course open to them, he thought, was to concentrate all their powers of thought upon finding out how .they could stimulate trade, so that the demand for labour would be a natural demand. 
It is obvious to honorable senators that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  submitted this statement as evidence that England had abandoned the policy of undertaking public works as a means of lifting the country out of economic stress. When  Senator Brown  asked him how such a demand could exist with so much labour idle,  Senator Duncan-Hughes  replied - 
A natural demand for labour cannot be expected when approximately one-half of taxpayers' incomes is absorbed by governmental demands and when the proceeds, as in Great Britain, are put into governmental relief works. 
He continued - 1 do not believe in governmental works. I do "ot wish to disparage governments, but I am confident that much better results maj be expected from the expenditure of money by private individuals than by governments, and I venture to think that the majority of honorable senators are in agreement with me ou this point. 
I have quoted  Senator Duncan-Hughes's  statements in detail because I wish to deal with three of his contentions - first, that Britain has abandoned a public works policy as a means of lifting that country out of the depression; secondly, that he does not believe in governmental works; and, thirdly, that he advocates reduced taxation as a means of solving the economic problems confronting this country. 
I ask honorable senators to consider the class of public works proposed by the Commonwealth Government. Honorable senators will agree with the general principle that public works which are likely to be remunerative or reproductive may justifiably be undertaken. But a good deal of uncertainty exists regarding what are actually remunerative or reproductive works. It could be claimed that it was a good policy for a government to lay through a desert a railway which would have practically no economic value, but might have a tremendous national value for defence purposes. That would be a remunerative work. Or again it could be maintained that if a government spent money on a community park where children could play and in consequence grow into more virile citizens than they otherwise would have been, such expenditure, while not reproductive in terms of accountancy, could be defended for national reasons. Quite frankly I admit that if the term must be expressed in £ : s. : d., I am not entirely clear in my mind as to what constitutes a reproductive work. I inquired of the Chief Librarian whether any commissions or boards of inquiry had ever attempted to define reproductive works, and he was obliged to confess that to his knowledge no definition exists. 
Now I submit that any honorable senator who advocated a public works programme in 192S would of necessity have made a speech entirely different from that which he would make in support of a similar policy to-day. Why, I ask, should there be any difference? The explanation lies in the fact that in 192S unemployment was probably at its lowest ebb, being about S per cent. Any programme of public works sponsored by a government at that time naturally took employment from private enterprise. In other words, most government activities merely duplicated those of private enterprise, and the two competed sharply in the labour market. Besides drawing men from the ranks of private enterprise, public works in 1928 also diverted capital which otherwise would have been available for industry. This was reflected in the high interest rates offered on government loans. To-day, the position is very different. When the depression commenced, the Government launched a vigorous public works programme designed to give work to the unemployed, having realized that private industry had failed to absorb its full quota of the labour available. In addition, the funds used by private enterprise in normal periods had been transferred to a large degree to fixed deposits in the banks simply because private capital could not find any attractive field for investment. In a debate on this measure, therefore, we have to bear in mind the different circumstances in normal times and abnormal times. I favour, and will at all times support, a vigorous governmental policy of public works, always providing that such activity does not take away employment from, or compete in the same field as, private enterprise. The objective of such works is not to hinder but to facilitate the recovery of private enterprise. The opening up of stone quarries, the financing of irrigation works to accelerate citrus production, or works to assist men to engage in market gardening would give employment to some individuals, but would definitely throw others out of work. Therefore it is essential, in any public works programme, the type of work to be undertaken should be carefully selected in order to achieve the dual objective of getting men back into employment and at the same time assisting private enterprise. The works proposed in this bill can be justified by that test. If honorable senators check up the works itemized in this measure, they will find that the Government is following a policy that, over the past two or three years, has proved to be sound. Works which do not compete with private enterprise, such as the improvement of aerodromes, the provision of water supplies and sewerage, and building subsidies, are all means by which employment can be provided and private enterprise assisted, thus helping to lift the country out of the depression.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  stated that Britain is abandoning the policy of public works as a means of coping with the unemployment evil. I have endeavoured to check up the loan expenditure in Britain, and I find that, so far from decreasing, it is practically the same to-day as it was last year. Surely there is no analogy between a public works programme formulated for the needs of a country like Australia, which has tremendous economic potentialities and scope for development, and a policy for an old and comparatively welldeveloped country like Great Britain. Where an Australian government may find that it is absolutely essential to adopt n developmental programme, the British Government  may take the directly opposite view. Wc control our own destiny, and is there any reason why we should slavishly follow the economic policy of Great Britain? Of course, there is not! We did not follow it when we increased the rate of foreign exchange. We have for all practical purposes established a currency of our own, though I admit that it is linked with sterling. If the Government of the United Kingdom did see fit to abandon its public works policy, should that be regarded as an indication that Australian governments should follow suit? 
I remind the honorable senator that there is an essential difference between central banking in England and central banking as we know it in Australia. I honestly believe tha, our position would be much sounder if, under our semi-developed system of central banking, the Commonwealth Bank exercised effective control of the open market by buying or selling securities as dictated by the rise or fall of the economic barometer. We should then have some measure of protection against the sudden onset of a depression or the effects of a sudden fall of world prices. But these observations are, I fear, somewhat of a digression. My purpose, at the moment, is to direct attention to some figures which I have taken out in connexion with expenditure on governmental works from revenue and loan respectively. This bill contains provision for an expenditure on works of £3,352,000. An examination of the figures for earlier years will show that the margin between the amount provided for this year and the expenditure in 192S-29 is very great indeed. I do not for one moment suggest that expenditure in 1928-29 was entirely economical, or entirely justified ; the point I wish to make is that at a particular stage in a general recovery it is unwise for a government to abandon expenditure on public works, and to rely as  Senator Duncan-Hughes  would urge, upon a policy of tax remission for the absorption of .our unemployed. In J92S-29 the Commonwealth expenditure on public works from loan and revenue amounted to £8,100,000, in 1929-30 it had fallen to £5,400,000, in 1930-31 to £2,000,000, and in 1931-32 to £1,000,000. In the following year it rose to £1,300,000, and last year it was £2.000,000. Having regard to the classes of works that are proposed, and, also. I trust, the submission that I have made, there is good reason for satisfaction that this year the expenditure will be £3,352,000. It is still more gratifying to know that whilst the Commonwealth Government is becoming increasingly active in this direction, State governments also are doing their share along these lines to absorb the remaining unemployed. Aggregate figures relating to expenditure from loan and revenue by the various State governments for works and services show that in 1928-29 ,the amount expended was £31,500,000, in 1929-30 it was £24,200,000 in 1930-31 it was £12,100,000, in 1931-32 it was only £5,800,000. In 1932-33, coinciding with the slight increase of Commonwealth expenditure, it rose to £9,700,000, and for this year the provision is £14,300,000. 
That is so.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has told us that he does not believe in governmental works; that his remedy for the unemployed evil is a substantial reduction of taxation on private enterprise. In other words, his economic creed, if I interpret it correctly, is the abandonment of governmental expenditure, and a re-adjustment of the taxes on industry, so that private employers may provide increased employment. 
I was referring to the general tenor of the honorable senator's remarks. 
I have no desire to misinterpret in any way the views enunciated by the honorable gentleman. Whilst all honorable senators will agree that the employment position to-day is much more satisfactory than it was in 1931-32, we must not forget that 17.9 per cent, of our people are still without work. 
I know it is, but with that large percentage of our citizens unemployed we cannot flatter ourselves that we are dealing with the problem on a completely satisfactory basis. 
Whenever I examine figures dealing with unemployment, I have some doubt as to their strict accuracy, though I do not question the source of the information. I allude to the figures contained in the budget and compiled by the Commonwealth or State statisticians, from information supplied by trade unions. It is well known that during the depression there was a considerable decline of the membership of trade unions, and also that a large number of youths have come on to the labour market in the last few years, and are presumably listed as n'on-unionists Despite some measure of doubt as to the accuracy of the statistics we must, I think, accept 17.9 per cent., as the true proportion of our unemployed. 
I admit that, but I hope that the honorable senator does not suggest that 17.9 per cent, of unemployed represents the normal conditions in industry in Australia. The seriousness of the position calls for a continuance of public works programmes by all governments, and all deflationary interests should be avoided. 
Intimately related to the problem of unemployment is the cash position of the Australian trading banks which, I submit, are an accurate barometer of the rate of recovery. The latest figures taken from the  Insurance and  Banking  Record  show that the cash reserves of the trading banks - the amount on deposit with the Commonwealth Bank, plus the amount held by the banks in negotiable securities - have been reduced by approximately £15,000,000, and that advances have increased by about £16,500,000. It might be argued, on these figures that there is encouraging evidence in the financial and economic structure of the Commonwealth's recovery. No doubt the figures do disclose this upward trend, but they also suggest that the banks may soon experience considerable difficulty in financing the rate of recovery. I am aware that the Grover  nment,  through its various departments, is carefully watching the barometer of progress, possibly with a- view to supplying the necessary stimulus in the event of any showingup becoming evident, because it is unreasonable to assume that our rate of recovery from the depression will be unaccompanied by temporary checks. I submit that but for the substantial advance of about 20 per cent, in the export  prices  for our primary products, we should probably have experienced a setback this year. 
Another useful financial and economic barometer that is deserving of close scrutiny is the position of public companies. I have examined the figures for 96 companies, covering the six months ended the 30th June, 1934, and find that the average increase of the number of men on the aggregate pay-roll was about 15 per cent. For the first half of this year the average increase was 13 per cent. A further analysis of the latter period under review shows that while for the first three months the rate of increase was as high as 15 per cent., during the last three months it fell to 9 per cent. As the lower average for this year indicates a slower rate of recovery, I submit it is the duty of the Government to analyse carefully the activities of all financial and trading institutions in order that any action deemed necessary to prevent a serious recession in the rate of progress may be taken. A vigorous public works policy designed to help private industry is the immediate answer to signs of recession in our economic welfare. 
They were general industrial companies. 
No ; but I am glad to know that the honorable senator believes in a policy which I am advocating. 
Labour's policy  always  has been to carry out works which compete with private enterprise. Only a few days ago the Leader of the Opposition  extolled  the virtues of private enterprise in Queensland; but when he was questioned about the State saw-mills and cattle stations, he was discreetly silent. Tt is well known that the public works policy of the Labour party has for its ultimate objective the breaking down of private enterprise. That is not the policy contained in this bill- 
Towards the end of his speech  Senator Duncan-Hughes  said - 
With other honorable senators, I regret that the Government has not seen its way clear to reduce taxation to a greater extent than is disclosed in this budget. 1 am of the opinion that the more taxation can be reduced, the more will the community be benefited and unemployment relieved. 
I am sure that the majority of honorable senators cordially support that view, always providing that such action is practicable. Desiring information as to the minimum reduction of taxation that would be required to achieve this desirable end, I paid a visit a few days ago to an eminent taxation expert and asked for his opinion, adding that my own views on the subject were somewhat confused. I asked whether an immediate reduction of taxation by, say, £20,000,000, would put private industry on its feet and enable it to completely absorb the unemployed, but I reminded him that there was a very great difference between governmental functions of the day and those of ten or twenty years ago. Ideas regarding the responsibilities of governments have been in process of evolution - it may be in the direction of what  Senator Brown  broadly names socialism - and the need to regulate private enterprise infinitely more than in the past is now recognized. 
That is not so. The budget contains many items of  expenditure  from which there is no escape unless our whole social structure be rebuilt or re-organized. The proposed expenditure in connexion with war services, for instance, is inescapable, and that is one obstacle to a reduction of taxation. Similarly, the large sums proposed to be paid to the. States, and the expenditure contemplated in connexion with pensions, interest and defence are obligations which must be met. The expenditure over which the Government has real control is a comparatively insignificant amount, and so long as the present structure remains, it is only in respect of that sum that a reduction of taxation is possible. It may be said that the company tax could be further reduced. But what would 'happen if that were clone? The revenue sacrificed would have to be raised from another source. Some would claim that the reduction would enable companies to offer more employment. 
That would be so, if the amount not paid as taxes were expended in providing further capital equipment made in Australia, and in promoting trade. A lot would depend on the nature of the expenditure. But if, on the other hand, the money were used to pay the company's indebtedness, it would not have any immediate effect in providing employment. It may also be argued that relief from taxation, if directed towards the payment of indebtedness, would increase the deposits in the banks, thereby increasing the amount available for advances; but what guarantee would there be that the money so paid out would be spread over the community as effectively as if it were expended by the Government in providing work for the unemployed? 
No. I am speaking of the economic effect. A vigorous public works programme, providing the types of works are carefully selected, must ultimately prove of more advantage to the community than an immediate reduction of taxation. 
Yes, provided that the amount by which its indebtedness is reduced goes back into private enterprise in such a way that it will provide employment as quickly as would a vigorous policy of public works. 
Not necessarily. 1 submit that if a company received a remission of taxation amounting to £1,000 it would render a greater service to the community, so far as the relief of unemployment is concerned, by expending that money on works in which the ratio of labour to materials was high, than by purchasing one machine which may provide work for only one man. 
In conclusion, I approve of the works programme contained in this bill, because 
I believe that it is the duty of a government to regulate its works programme according to the unemployment position. I cannot see how a drastic curtailment of public works can do other than seriously affect the position in regard to employment. In the last three years governments have held the scales evenly between private enterprise and public works expenditure. As Australia progresses towards recovery, so will it be possible to curtail governmental undertakings designed to promote employment; but if, on the other hand, the improvement is not maintained, and progress is retarded, a vigorous policy of public works will again have to be undertaken. 
.- This bill contains proposals for the expenditure of large sums of money on public works which have not been given that careful scrutiny to which proposed works were subjected when the Public Works Committee was in existence. It provides for the expenditure in the Federal Capital Territory of £67,540 on architectural services and £74,460 on engineering services. Since the Public Works Committee was suspended, millions of pounds have been passed by Parliament for expenditure on works which have not been scrutinized by any committee, with the result that Parliament has not had before it any evidence by which it could judge whether or not savings could be made. For some years you,  Mr. President,  were a member of the Public Works Committee, as I was for three years. The cost of that committee was small; indeed, the total amount paid to its members was about £2,000 per annum, with a further sum to cover the salaries of a small staff. My experience as a member of that committee enables me to say that its careful investigation of proposed public works resulted in the saving of many thousands of pounds. I submit that, with the recovery that has taken place during the last few years, and the more vigorous public works programme now contemplated, the re-establishment of the Public Works Committee is amply justified. It may be that, the committee as previously constituted was too large; but if nine members is thought to be too many, the committee when, re-constituted could be smaller. I make this suggestion solely in the public interest, as I am not personally concerned. 
Speaking in the Senate a few days ago,  Senator Duncan-Hughes  attributed the abolition of slums in Great Britain to the expansion of private enterprise. He said that slum dwellings were being demolished to make way for new warehouses and business premises. I agree with the honorable senator that the Government can best contribute to the stability of the community by assisting private enterprise so that it can provide work for those willing and able to perform it. The slum clearance scheme now being undertaken in Great Britain is of such magnitude that it could not be financed by private enterprise. Generally speaking, such works are carried out by municipalities which raise loans of from  £2,000,000  to  £4,000,000;  these loans are usually oversubscribed. When the authorities determine that buildings in a specified area are unfit for human habitation, the land is resumed and modern workmen's cottage.* are erected. The members of the Empire Parliamentary Delegation saw what is being accomplished in this direction. Knowing the interest which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  takes in this subject, I am sure that he would be gratified to see what various municipalities in Great Britain are doing in the removal of slum areas. 
Most municipalities have their own public works departments, but private contractors have the right to tender for any contemplated work. The departments have to provide for the same costs as private contractors, and if a private tender is lower than the estimate submitted by the department, it is accepted. During an inspection, I saw reconstruction being carried out in one area by private contractors, and in another by a municipal works department. The financing of such schemes must necessarily be undertaken by a municipality because the capital required could not be raised by private enterprise. 
I realize that, and I do not wish to misrepresent  the honorable senator. Prior to our departure from Great Britain, the British Government made a loan of  £20,000,000  available to the London Transport Board for the extension of transport facilities in Greater London. Such a large amount could not have been raised by any private concern. I agree with  Senator Hardy  that governmental or semi-governmental bodies should raise the money necessary to carry out public works of such magnitude.  Senator Collings  suggests that  h.  view of the opinions I am expressing I should join the Labour party, but, as  Senator Hardy  has mentioned, we believe that the Government should intervene only when finance cannot be provided by private interests. We do not believe in governments being interested financially in small retail trading concerns, as was a Labour government in Queensland, which purchased a trawler to catch a few fish, and opened State butchers' shops. I agree with  Senator Hardy  that when money cannot be raised by private contractors public works must be undertaken by governments. If a Labour government embarked upon an extensive homeconstruction policy, it would establish factories, and attempt to manufacture window frames, baths, taps, &amp;c, in competition with persons who have been engaged in the business for years. I do not wish to delay the passage of the bill; but, in view of the large amount which the Government proposes to expend this financial year on public works, particularly in extending the accommodation for Commonwealth departments, the Public Works Committee should be reconstituted. I know from experience that unnecessary expenditure on public works has been avoided as a result of the investigations conducted by that body. I trust that the Government will give this matter its early attention. 
. -Apparently  Senator Hardy  and  Senator Foll  are beginning to realize that there is a good deal in the Labour party's policy regarding public works. The Labour movement has met with the bitter  antagonism of the supporters of private enterprise; but some honorable senators opposite now believe that it is time to make a change. A few days ago,  Senator Foll  stated that large public work? in Great Britain are no longer being carried out to stabilize private enterprise, yet now he says that millions of pounds are being expended by governmental and semi-governmental bodies in clearing slum areas. 
The inference was that social enterprise is being cast aside, and that the Old Country is finding its salvation in the efficacy of private, enterprise.  Senator Hardy  proved that a public works policy is essential to private enterprise. 
Members of tks honorable senator's party now share the responsibilities of government, and, by force of circumstances, the Government is giving effect to a policy which wo have advocated for years. 
Private enterprise has been a dynamic force in developing the capitalist system; but a stage has been reached when it is found that a public works policy is necessary to assist the country's development. The Labour party uses the forces at its command for the benefit of the community rather than in the interest of private concerns. 
The representations of Labour supporters and the conditions resulting from the economic and financial depression have forced the Government to undertake public works.  Senator Hardy  suggested that a public works policy is necessary in order to diminish the opportunities of private interests to exploit the people. 
I have not the figures before me. The public works policy of this Government is not what it appears to be on paper. According to the budget papers £8,640,000 is to be expended, but an examination of the figures discloses that £3,000,000 of that amount is set aside for the adjustment of the farmers' debts. In answer to a question yesterday, I was informed that only £10,000 of that amount has been expended. The adoption of an extensive public works policy would assist in absorbing the 17.9 per cent, of persons at present unemployed, and for whom private enterprise cannot find work. The Government wishes us to believe that it is expending huge sums of money on a public works policy, but, with the exception of £3,000,000 to be expended on additions, provision is made only for ordinary routine work. 
It would provide work, especially if it were a new post office in the Valley, Brisbane, or in Queen-street, Brisbane. If the Government cannot construct such a building then let private enterprise do the work, and through such work purchasing power will be distributed. 
Honorable senators on this side, I suggest, have demonstrated to  Senator Foll  and other honorable senators opposite that a Labour government has done splendid work in Queensland. Members of my party realize that all the forces of private enterprise are pitted against any efforts by governments to undertake public works programmes, and against any system which seeks to substitute social ownership for a system of which private ownership is the main feature. We know that in this and every capitalist country private enterprise always endeavours to prevent the development of the socialistic objectives of the Labour party because such development would mean a diminution of the profits of private enterprise. At the same time private enterprise holds that governments should be allowed to carry out works which do not promise profits, and that whenever private enterprise fails to make a profit, governments should come to its assis- tance.  Governmental support of private enterprise is endorsed by some honorable senators and by many members of the House of Representatives. Only a few months ago this Parliament passed a bill to provide £12,000,000 for the adjust: ment of the debts of farmers. I do not oppose any action on the part of the Government to assist the farming community, but I claim that it is evidence that even this Government recognizes that it must undertake what may be termed socialistic measures when a section of the community has failed under circumstances over which those concerned had no control. No honorable senator can deny that public social activity is increasing and that private enterprise more and more is inclined to rest upon such a policy. That cannot be denied. Even  Senator Hardy's  friend,  Mr. Davidson,  general manager of the Bank of New South Wales, has stated repeatedly in his circulars that it is necessary that the governments of all capitalistic countries should spend money in order to increase and widen purchasing power in their respective communities.  Senator Hardy  has supported that view; he is a student of  Mr. Davidson's  pamphlets. Every one who has read them knows that  Mr. Davidson,  who is more far-seeing than the members of this Government, recognizes the need for the expenditure of government money in order to save institutions that are representative of private enterprise. 
I do not need to do so. I am pointing out that the policy of the Government is to safeguard the profit-making section of the community. The present percentage of unemployed will remain at 17 per cent, so long as private enterprise is safeguarded as this Government is doing. We claim that it is necessary to absorb that 17 per cent, of unemployed in industry and that this can be done only by a more intensive development of public enterprises. 
I claim that through the exercise of socialistic economic functions by the State, 17 per cent, of unemployed which private enterprise cannot absorb will be restored to employment. To any student of economics that must be clear. Despite the efforts which are being made in various countries, it has been found impossible for private enterprise to absorb all the unemployed. We find proof of this in America, where  President  Roosevelt has had to come to the rescue with a national recovery plan; in England, where there are still 2,000,000 unemployed; in France, where unemployment is increasing; in Germany, where, under the dictatorship of Hitler, the unemployment problem is becoming more serious ; and in Italy, which has had to resort to war as a solution of its economic troubles.  Senator Foll  gave us the impression that the unemployment problem had been solved in the United Kingdom. In reply to an interjection by me he admitted that many miners are still unemployed. Official statistics published in Great Britain show that there are still 2,000,000 unemployed there. According to the  Statist  governmental assistance to the British agricultural industry amounts to £45,000,000 a. year. How can  Senator Foll  or any other honorable senator claim that in the Old Country private enterprise has solved the problem of unemployment, when the agricultural industry in Britain, through grants and indirect relief, receives assistance which, is equal to 15s. a week for every person engaged in the industry? Yet, purblind and stupid, some honorable senators persist in saying that private enterprise must be depended upon to cure the evil of unemployment. The tendency to-day is to spend more and more money in order to keep private enterprise on its feet, and to ensure, in the main, that the capitalist class gets its pound of flesh by way of profit. But for government enterprise and assistance, the present system of banking and interestmongering would have gone by the board long ago. That has been admitted by one of the leading bankers in Australia. 
We senators who sit in Opposition contend that the amount of money proposed to be voted for public work? is insufficient. Despite statements that we are now ascending the upward path, and that the sun of prosperity is rising, and other such "  guiver  ", this Government will not replace in industry those seventeen out of every 100 persons who are out of work to-day.  Senator Hardy  has given us information, concerning the amount of money spent on public works by the Bruce-Page Government. I am informed that 100,000 persons were engaged on public works during the regime of that Government. If that was so, we may estimate that another 100,000 per.sons found employment in various other economic channels. Thus 200,000 persons were given employment as the result of a strong public works policy, which involved the borrowing of large sums of money overseas. 
I am dealing with its real effect. The number of unemployed was less at that time than it is to-day. 
That may have been the case, but I remind the honorable senator that any private enterprise in Australia or elsewhere could readily overcome any shortage of labour. At no time in recent years has there been a dearth of labour except during the Great War. The proposed expenditure of £3,000,000 on necessary works and additional services will find employment for a few people at least. To that extent we welcome this hill, because, under the present economic system, a public works policy seems to be the only way of restoring purchasing power to the workers. Some day another system may be devised to achieve that purpose. The policy of instituting public works as a means of overcoming unemployment has been dealt with by the International Labour Office at Geneva, the director of which,  Mr. Butler,  whom I quoted a few days ago, has this to say on the matter - 
Such works must, if they are to be successful, be associated with a general expansionist monetary policy. They should be undertaken on a large scale, and should be financed by loans rather than by taxation. 
This statement supports the argument advanced by  Senator Hardy,  who appears to be a new evangel of Davidson or Douglas, I do not know which. Two years ago in this chamber, I provoked the smiles of some honorable senators, when I claimed that the reduction of taxes would not necessarily mean an increase of employment; I said that much would depend on whether the money, when it went back to the banks, was released again and distributed in wages. 
Not necessarily. That is where the honorable senator's education is  lacking  and the prevalence of such an idea is one of the main reasons why Australia is in trouble to-day. The honorable senator apparently is of the opinion that, a*  soon  as the money goes back to the hanks, it. is returned to industry. That idea is fallacious. I have no doubt that  Senator Hardy  can enlighten his colleague on that point.  Senator Hardy  realizes the existence of such factors as a depression, the calling in of overdrafts, and the reducing of the volume of money poured into the com.munity in order to save the interests of investors and those who control the banking system. Surely  Senator Herbert  Hays, knowing of those factors and the part they play in such a problem, cannot claim that because money goes back to the banks it is always- returned to industry, and that no difference whatever results in general economic conditions. That is the contention of dunderheads and blockheads. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  - Such language is unparliamentary. 
It may be unparliamentary, but it expresses my views on this point. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  The honorable senator's remark is a little crude. 
I am a crude fellow; and I am not always able to express myself in polite parliamentary language. If, after my explanation and the lucid statement of  Senator Hardy, Senator Herbert  Hays fails to understand what has been said, something must be lacking in his imagination. I hope  Senator Hardy  agrees with me-- 
Then I think  Senator Hardy  is within the same category as  Senator Herbert  Hays. I am quoting from his own statements. In common with the new director of Mount Isa,  Senator Foll,  he believes in the reduction of company taxation, but he said that if a company were granted remissions amounting to £1,000, that money, instead of being expended, might be used to reduce the company's indebtedness to the bank, which would not necessarily use it for promoting employment. I am gratified to know that the Labour party has in the honorable senator a convert, and that our ranks will shortly be strengthened by his inclusion. 
The Labour party, while commending the Government for spending more money on public and essential works, considers that this policy does not go far enough. I am pleased that certain honorable senators who are not members of the Labour party gave a rhetorical and critical trouncing to  Senator DuncanHughes. Senator Hardy,  in a reasoned, sensible statement, smashed  Senator Duncan-Hughes's  arguments to smithereens. 
The proposed defence works will be of interest to  Senator Brand.  The Labour party believes in adequate measures for the defence of Australia. Opinions  differ as to what are adequate methods of defence. Senators on the other side of the chamber who have had a military training doubtless hold very definite opinions on this subject. On matters of detail - -whether it is better to spend money on gunboats or aeroplanes - they may differ, but they do seriously believe that Australia should spend many millions of pounds to defend itself. Latterday events prove to right thinking people that we should earmark a certain amount of money to provide for our protection. As to what constitutes defence there are many varying views. The advanced pacifist, for instance, considers that the defence of a country oan be accomplished only by educating the people not to go to war. The Quaker believes in the Christian doctrine of non-resistance, even to the extent that if he were smitten on one cheek he would turn the other cheek. Perhaps I may digress here (to recall an incident that befell a Quaker of my acquaintance who, having turned first one cheek and then the other, considered that he had fulfilled the letter of his faith and promptly attacked his aggressor. I shall not presume to enter into any learned disquisition upon what constitutes adequate defence, because I have no knowledge of the subject other than that it involves the provision of aeroplanes, warships, munitions, and military equipment. But I ask those who advocate adequate defence measures to consider the circumstances of Worth Queensland. Will the Government state whether or not it is true that Australia has been divided into certain military, naval and air force zones? For my own satisfaction I would like to know whether Cooktown, the ghost town of the north, which was once prosperous with 14,000 inhabitants, is included in any such zone. If it is not and the Government does not propose to spend any more money on the defences at Cooktown I shall be able so to inform the citizens there. Cooktown would make an admirable air base, and I understand that £500 was allocated from the grant for the relief of unemployment towards the construction of an aerodrome at that port. The citizens are now requesting the expenditure of an additional £1,000, in order to help place Cooktown on a proper basis as a unit in the defence of Northern Queensland. I am not a military authority, but as the mouthpiece of my constituents, I bring to the notice of the Government the following letter from a citizen of Cooktown : - 
All of this work has occurred over a period of eighteen months. A council of twelve men, with the  chairman,  all devoted to public interest, have so administered an area of 52,000 square miles as to keep its finances sound and its progress continuous over that period. But the cry is for more population. 

 Senator Payne, who speaks so ably upon the decline of the natural increase of the population, should be interested in that portion. 
This is the greatest shire council to my knowledge in the world. These people are merely asking for au additional £1,000 or £1,500 to complete the work that has already been done. 
Roughly  3,000 people holding an area only slightly smaller than the British Isles, is highly provocative to neighbouring countries whose people are frustrated through lack of land, lt is not a mare's nest, nor an item in a sensational Sunday newspaper, to repeat the story of a miner with his gold-bearing ore on the beach ready for shipment and the advent of the Japanese sampan whose crew stole the ore ostensibly for ballast. The whole thing happening within 150 miles of Cooktown! True, a slight incident, but surely a straw in the wind! Nor is it a scare when one hears of educated Japanese - they come to Cooktown on the luggers - sneering at Australian land hogs. 
Captain Scott, the winner of the air race, said in a series of articles appearing in the  Courier-Mail,  that in the event of war in the Jjost, Thursday Island would be the attacking centre, and Cooktown the defending centre for Queensland. We are only a few hours run by air from New Guinea, and the modern highpower plane can reach Brisbane from Cooktown in one day. It is important then to bring under notice the paradox of our isolation and our contact with busy centres. 
I hope that the Government will take cognizance of this letter and either frankly and fearlessly declare that Cooktown is outside the naval, military or aerial zone, and is to be neglected, or that the town comes within one of the districts and will be strengthened. The Government which believes in the defence of Australia, and which is prepared to support Great Britain to the last man and the last shilling in the dispute which is now disturbing Europe, should not allow this appeal to go unheeded. It should recognize that if Australia is to be protected, the northern gate must not be left wide open to the invader. 
 In supporting the second reading of this bill I commend the Government for making provision for the expenditure of £3,000,000, and generally approve of the detailed works set out in the schedule. I find myself much in accord with the views expressed by  Senator DuncanHughes  on the general principle of expenditure by governments on public works. The honorable senator did not state that governments should abandon public works, and leave employment wholly to private enterprise. As a matter of fact, every honorable senator knows that the Commonwealth and State Governments each year introduce bills providing for public works, as in their opinion are within their financial capacity. 
Of course. The question at issue is - How far is the Government justified in a general policy of expending money on public works ? I refer particularly to the Commonwealth Government in competition with the States. In recent years a financial crisis - the greatest in history - overtook the world and it affected Australia no less than any other country. In such a period of national emergency it is the duty of the Government to see that its citizens are provided with employment. This Government, and also the preceding Administration, recognized its responsibility, and incurred substantial expenditure to assist in the absorption of the unemployed. This policy was put into effect in various ways, including the allocation of sums of money to State governments and municipalities for the carrying out of useful public works. 

 Senator Brown would have us believe that government expenditure on public works, regardless of whether they are productive or otherwise, is the one way out of our financial difficulties. 
The honorable senator may not have expressed his opinion in the exact words which I have used; but that, at all events, was the substance of his remarks. He strongly urged the Government to embark upon a vigorous public works policy, and made no qualifications as to whether such works should be revenue-producing or a permanent asset. He declared that only in this way could we expect to absorb the remaining 17 per cent, of unemployed people. While he was speaking, I reminded the honorable gentleman that, even in normal years, the number of unemployed in Australia averages about 9 per cent. 
It is fair to assume that a fair proportion of the 9 per cent, of persons listed as workless are really unemployable. Because of the seasonal nature of primary, as  well  as of some secondary industries, the percentage of the unemployed is not likely to fall below the figure stated. The Arbitration Court takes cognizance of the seasonal nature of a number of industries, and, as in the case of cane-cutting in Queensland, frequently awards to employees in those industries the equivalent of twelve months' pay for a shorter period of regular employment. Our major primary industry, wheatgrowing, is also a seasonal occupation, and gives intermittent employment. It is extremely difficult for all wheat-growers to obtain sufficient labour to havest their crops. The vastness of this continent increases the difficulty of relieving unemployment in some industries. If, for example, a large public work, giving employment to 2,000 or 3,000 men, is undertaken in Queensland, it will not attract any appreciable number of men who may be unemployed in Melbourne, but will draw its labour from the unemployed in Queensland. and from the men already working in industries in the locality. To this extent some public works become competitive with existing industries for the labour available. The Commonwealth should entrust the carrying out of public works to State governments or municipalities. Local authorities have available all the necessary plant and machinery, and, possessing a better knowledge of the bona fides of the unemployed in their respective localities, may be trusted to distribute the work more to the satisfaction of those seeking employment than could be expected if work were undertaken by the Commonwealth Government itself. A continuous policy is much more likely to be effective in absorbing the unemployed. A programme of public works, spread -over a number of years, would give permanent employment to a large number of men who, in the course of time, would become skilled in their various occupations, whereas heavyexpenditure on public works spread over a short period would be a disturbing factor in the labour market. 
I would prefer that State governments or municipalities should be entrusted with the carrying out of most Commonwealth public works, thus obviating the duplication of controlling authorities and plant. No government should take from the pockets of the people mere money than is required for the carrying on of its functions. Governments should not budget for surpluses. They should leave in the pockets of the people as much money as possible so that private industry may be encouraged to increase the volume of employment. 
Although I may not be strictly in ardor in directing the attention of the 
Postmaster-General  to the need for reestablishing the shipping service to Kins; Island, I take this opportunity to mention the matter in the hope that something may be done in the near future. A regular shipping service was very much appreciated by the people living on King Island. Since the best passenger boat ceased running some years ago, their only means of transportation is by air. It may be argued that the maintenance of shipping services is the responsibility of the Tasmanian Government; but I submit that as there is a fair number of residents on the island, the Commonwealth should give heed to their representations and see what can be done to re-establish the service. I support the second reading of the bill. 
 I am sure that  Senator Brown  does not expect the Government to disclose the plan of operations for the effective defence of Australia, but I can assure him that the strategic importance of northern Queensland has not been overlooked. I am pleased to notice that provision has been made in this year's Estimates for the re-establishment of the Royal Military College at Duntroon. The original buildings, constructed in 1910, were of a temporary nature, resembling seaside shacks; but during the war years there was no time to erect permanent buildings. Then came the depression, and the buildings fell into disrepair. The Scullin Government could not face the cost of a new college - no one expected it to do so - and in the interests of economy, rather than of  efficiency, the college was transferred to the Victoria Barracks, Paddington. 
For five years the college authorities have attempted to carry on at Victoria Barracks, but the place has not proved satisfactory. No great difficulty has been experienced in regard to the elementary training of the future staff officers, but field exercises, so important in the education of these cadets has been restricted owing to the lack of suitable open country in the vicinity. Whatever the requirements of Australian defence may be in war, it is imperative that the efficiency and strength of our skeleton permanent staff corps, as well as officer-instructors, shall be unimpaired. From the Royal Military College must come the personnel to replace officers who leave the service from various causes. I hope that on the return of the Royal Military College to Duntroon, it will be properly equipped, and that thereafter it will be continued as a. place of which Australians may be proud, instead of being an object of ridicule and regarded as a subject for neglect. 

 Senator DUNCAN-HUGHES (South 
Australia) [5.22]. - As my name has been brought into this discussion a good deal, I propose to demonstrate to  Senator Brown  that I have not been completely overwhelmed, at any rate physically, by what has been said. I did not have a great deal to say by way of criticism of the Government in connexion with this bill. On the contrary, I went out of my way to say that, in view of the temptation to spend money, it had, on the whole, acted reasonably. At no time did I suggest that governmental works should not be carried out. I merely urged that no unnecessary work should be undertaken. There is a tendency for governments tn undertake works which are not absolutelyessential.  Senator Hardy  refrained from giving the Senate a definition of reproductive works. I would gladly have heard his definition, for it has been said that practically everything is a matter of definition. I have not the mental facility of the late Lord Rosebery, who, on one occasion, when asked for a definition of memory, is said to have answered, " Memory is that feeling which spreads over us when we hear our friends' new stories." The word " reproductive '', when used in such circumstances as those under consideration, is usually regarded in a monetary sense ; a work is held to be reproductive if it pays interest on the money expended. I agree with  Senator Hardy  that a playground might in one sense be reproductive, but except at Canberra or Port Darwin, or it may be at Alice Springs where there is not one, the subject of playgrounds does not come into our calculations. Outside the territories under Commonwealth control, the construction of playgrounds is essentially work for the States. That the Commonwealth Government is not the only Australian government which undertakes public works needs emphasizing. Expenditure incurred in constructing a playground may be justified on the' ground that it is useful in building up a healthy community; but that can be said with even greater truth of certain expenditure on defence. Training with a defence unit may have great value, and produce excellent citizens, but I have not heard defence expenditure described as reproductive. That is largely because itdoes not show a return in terms of £ s.  d. ;  it may be difficult to prove that it pays interest on the money expended. 

 Senator Hardy spoke of a central banking system. In the United States of America, which has a central banking system, there has been a great expenditure of money on large schemes ; but I do not advocate that Australia should follow the example set by that country. In my opinion the policy in operation there will not bear comparison with the more moderate policy * adopted in England; it has yet to be proved. 
That may be. The experiment tried in the United States of America has meant the expenditure of enormous sums of money. Of course, that country is immensely rich and has great recuperative powers. 
Australia would be well advised to see the  results of the American experiment before it attempts similar experiments. The figures quoted by  Senator Hardy  indicate a growing tendency towards an inflated expenditure on non-essential public works. For that reason I agree with  Senator Foll  that the Public Works Committee should be restored. While it existed that committee saved Australia many thousands of pounds. I do not speak impetuously on the point; but, after some consideration of the matter, I favour the restoration of the committee. 
.- The schedule of works contained in this bill cannot be classed as works undertaken chiefly to provide employment. They appear to be either very necessary new works or works which have been delayed because of lack of funds. 
The programme submitted by the Government will involve the expenditure of more money than this bill seeks to appropriate, because some of the works will extend over several years. It would appear that Queensland is  being  treated generously. The sum of £53,000 is set down for this year in connexion with the erection of Commonwealth offices in Brisbane, and a further expenditure of £95,000 is contemplated. It would appear that post office works will not take so large a proportion of the total expenditure as in previous years, for only about one-half instead of three-quarters of the total will come under the control of the PostmasterGeneral ! 
For the acquisition of a small arms ammunition factory at Footscray, and machinery and plant for the manufacture of munitions, the sum of £46,653 is proposed to be expended this year, with o further expenditure later. I do not object to that expenditure, but I desire to sound a warning regarding the tendency of these establishments to compete with private enterprise. Instead of spending vast sums of money in establishing munition factories, the Government should consult the various chambers of manufactures throughout Australia, with a view to manufacturers installing machines and training men in the manufacture of munitions. In that way it would be possible to manufacture economically much large quantities of munitions than by concentrating the work in one or two munition factories. lt would also avoid unfair competition with private enterprise. 
For the Royal Air Force £362,650 is set aside to provide land plane and seaplane equipment and plant, including spare parts, machinery, tools, ordnance and engineering supplies and ammunition. I do not object to this proposed expenditure because I realize that our defence may be largely in the air, and the greater the expenditure on this arm the greater will be our in.surance against danger. I wish, however, to direct the attention of the Government to the fact that if the expenditure is to be effective the members of the Air Force must be placed on a much more satisfactory footing than at present. I understand that the members of the Air Force, who join the service at an average age of 20 years, have to retire at 45, thus having a working life of only 25 years. Deferred pay amounting to £200 or £250 is made available to. them at the end of 25 years' service, but provision should be made to transfer them to some other 'branch of the service when they reach the retiring age. We cannot expect the members of the Air Force to be content in the knowledge that when they are 45  -  -the age when a business man may be said to have reached his prime - they will be compelled to engage in work for which they are quite unfitted. Air service equipment is essential for the safety of Australia; but I urge the Government to extend more sympathetic treatment to the personnel of the Royal Air Force. 
 I support the remarks of  Senator Foll  and  Senator Duncan-Hughes  regarding the reconstitution of the Public Works Committee. I was a member of a public works committee in South Australia for some years, and I am positive its cost was returned to the Government fourfold.  Senator Hardy  quoted figures showing that in 1928 the Commonwealth expended about £8,000,000 on public works. In subsequent years that amount was reduced to £5,000,000, £2,000,000 and £1,000,000 respectively. Last year the expenditure was £2,000,000 and this year it is to be as shown in the  budget papers now before honorable senators. If it were necessary to disband the committee because the expenditure on Government works was small, now that the expenditure has increased to such an extent it would appear to be only fair to re-constitute the committee. 
In connexion with public works generally the Government should keep in mind two considerations - first, that the utilities provided are necessary - I would prefer something more practical than  Senator Hardy  suggested - and, secondly, that they will be reproductive. "When speaking on the Estimates and budget papers, I said that men should be employed on reproductive works, and that we should not expend money on undertakings which may be detrimental to the country's interests. The two principal items of expenditure provided in thebill relate to defence and postal buildings. I have already made it clear that I have not an intimate knowledge of defence matters, but with other honorable senators I realize that provision must be made for the effective defence of Australia. In such matters I am prepared to be guided, not only by those who had experience in the Great 
War from 1914 to 1918, but also by those who have a sound theoretical knowledge of the subject. I believe that those who formulate our defence policy will assure to Australia more than a modicum of safety, and I am prepared to support them. 
I should now like to deal briefly with postal matters, some of which may appear trivial to the Government, but which are of great importance to those concerned. I sincerely trust that improved mail facilities will be provided to persons in outback districts. Pioneers who for the time being have left behind most of the amenities which make life worth living should have better mail services than are now provided. Many in the back country are suffering much inconvenience owing to the lack of even a weekly mail, and, if their claims were given more consideration, they would be grateful. Another matter which has caused considerable inconvenience in South Australia is the withdrawal of railway postal vans in which mails were sorted and delivered at the stations as a train proceeded on its journey. If a person wishes to communicate by letter with another living 10 miles away, the letter has to go to a capital city, perhaps 100 or 150 miles distant, where it is sorted before it is returned to the addressee. Instead of the letter being received within a couple of hours it may not be delivered until the next morning. If the old system were reverted to it would be a great convenience, not only to the people of South Australia, but also to many in other States. I trust that the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  will give to the matter favorable consideration. 
[5.44].  -  I thank honorable senators for the friendly manner in which this, bill has been received. I remind SenatorCollings, who said that no provision had been made for improved housing conditions in Canberra, that under " Architectural services " £67,540 is provided. The item may be misleading, but an analysis of the figures will show that £38,400 of this amount is for the erection of wooden cottages, which must improve housing conditions generally in Canberra. I understand that some of these cottages will replace the less serviceable houses to which the honorable senator referred. 
The new Commonwealth offices in. Brisbane are expected to be available for occupation in March, 1936. In them provision has been made for the accommodation of federal members. The cost of furnishing the federal members rooms in Brisbane is provided for in another portion of the bill. A sum of £6,000 is to be made available from loan funds for a new customs house at Cairns. That amount was appropriated during the last financial year under an unemployment relief measure. 
Yes. I listened with a great deal of interest to the remarks of the leader of the Country party in the Senate  (Senator Hardy),  in regard to public work policies.With much that he said I find myself in general agreement. Public works policies must be prudent; but, as was stated by the honorable senator, there is a difference between a public works policy such as we support, and a policy supported by the members of the Labour party. 
Some interesting speeches have been delivered by honorable senators in connexion with the proposal of  Senator Foll  that the Public Works Committee should be reconstituted. I would be the last to deprecate the good work done by that committee at a time when the Government was spending large sums of money on important works; but, while the debate was proceeding, I looked through the works covered by this bill, and I found that few of them would come under review by the committee. The act provides that only works the estimated cost of which exceeds £25,000 shall be referred to the committee. The act also provided that defence works and works of a like character may be exempt by order in council. When the committee was in existence defence works concerning which publicity was inadvisable were always exempt from inquiry. As Minister for Defence at the time, I realized the advisableness  of information on important details being withheld. Defence works, such as the construction of air force barracks at Laverton, which were not of a confidential character, were investigated. A large portion of the defence expenditure proposed in this bill is of an extremely confidential character, and would not be referred to such a committee. I am sure that neither  Senator Foll,  nor any of those who support the appointment of such a committee, would suggest that the erection of a battery at North Head should be inquired into by a works committee. Provision is also made for the expenditure of £53,000 on Commonwealth offices in Brisbane, but that work has already been reported upon by the Public Works Committee. Glancing at the totals of various items of expenditure proposed in the bill, one might think that many of these would be referred to the Public Works Committee if now in existence. But take, for instance, the river Murray waters scheme, under which certain works arc being constructed under an agreement between three States and the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth's share of the expenditure on these works for this year will be £120,000. In the ordinary course of events, these works would not have been referred to the Public Works Committee for the simple reason that they are of a technical character, and agreement regarding them has been reached between the engineers representing the three State governments and the Commonwealth Government, and endorsed by the commission as a whole. 
That is so. If these works were referred to the Public Works Committee, whom would that committee call to give evidence? Obviously, it would first seek the advice of those engineers who had already recommended the scheme. The committee would not desire to hear evidence from any other engineer, unacquainted with the general scheme., which has been evolving over a period of years. Another item is the completion of oil fuel storage at Darwin, for which £34,000 is allocated. This work involves the installation of more tanks at Darwin, and is merely an extension of the original installation, which was exempted from report by the committee. Then there is the installation of oil fuel storage at Sydney, at an estimated cost, for this year, of £70,000. This work is also of a confidential character, and would certainly be exempted by the Minister for Defence from examination by the committee. Practically every item of proposed expenditure for the Defence Department exceeding £25,000 is of a confidential character, and would not be referred to the committee for investigation under any circumstances. The total of £36,000 ' allocated to the Repatriation Department is made up of scores of items of constructional additions and improvements to existing hospitals, offices and other buildings controlled by that department. Most of these items involve the expenditure of £2,000 or £3,000. With respect to the proposed expenditure of £60,000 on the ballasting of the transcontinental railway, surely no honorable senator would suggest that the committee, if it were reconstituted, should be despatched to the railway to inquire whether the  ballasting was necessary, or advisable, or whether the ballast pits were situated at the most economical places ! 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Of the total expenditure, the greatest part, amounting to £1,650,000, will be in the Postmaster-General's Department ; but, when the items are examined, we find that very few of them individually involve more than £25,000. Three broadcasting stations are to be constructed at a total cost of £36,000, but Parliament has set up a commission, to which it has ' entrusted -the management of public broadcasting, and the commission decides upon the sites for its stations; the Postmaster-General's responsibility is to provide the stations. Would honorable senators refer work of this "nature to a public works committee, and thus have three bodies - the Breadcasting Commission, experts of the PostmasterGeneral's Department, and the Public Works Committee - investigating it ' I hardly think so. In another class of expenditure provided for in this measure are telephone exchanges. I take this opportunity to say that in the past the Public Works Committee, when dealing with such matters, did not quite  walk the chalk line. It was rather  foolish to have the Public Works Committee travelling about the country to report on every proposal to construct a telephone exchange simply because the estimated expenditure involved on each exceeded £25,000. All of these exchanges were constructed on similar lines. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.When these exchanges were first being constructed it was reasonable to have these proposals investigated by the Public Works Committee, which I admit accomplished good work at that time by selecting the best type of exchange. Once the most serviceable type had been chosen, however, and the class of building decided, the only matter remaining for determination was the site of new exchanges. I fail to see why the com mittee should have made inquiries into the cost of construction of every one of these exchanges which were' all of the one type. In making such unnecessary investigations the committee failed badly. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I am aware of that fact, but the suggestion is that the committee should be reconstituted to investigate proposals for which expenditure is being allocated in this measure. There is no justification for that. Would any honorable senator say that the committee should be reconstituted, for instance, to inquire into the cost of construction of telephone exchanges of the same type as those already adopted upon the recommendation of the previous Works Committee after it had made a full investigation? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The total of £74,000 for works to be carried out in Canberra is made up of scores of items, and the individual cost of none will exceed £25,000. Certainly the aggregate cost of the 70 new cottages will be greater than that amount, but this involves a group of structures of varying types. 
I have carefully examined every class of expenditure involved in this measure and I have failed to find any proposed work which would require an investigation by a Public Works Committee. Therefore, so far as this measure is concerned, there is no justification for the reconstitution of the Public Works Committee. I am not suggesting that for this reason the Government has rejected the idea of reconstituting the committee. That proposal is on the agenda for consideration by Cabinet, and the Government believes that when expenditure is proposed for certain works which would justify an investigation by such a body, the committee should be reconstituted. 

 Senator Brown invariably tries in a laborious way to tell us what really is  the defence policy of the Labour party. He has taken this opportunity to repeat his attempt. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  Senator Brown  claims that the policy is adequate defence ". The attitude adopted  by  Senator Brown  and his colleagues on this matter reminds me of Russell Lowell's satirical line - " I do believe in freedom's laws, as far away as Paris is." 

 Senator Brown desires that a naval base be established at Cooktown. Though I was Minister for Defence for many years I heard nothing of such a proposal. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.What use would a naval base be without a navy? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.In accordance with modern ideas of defence a port is not fortified unless it is a port of refuge, refuel, refit or repair for a navy. A port is not fortified simply to protect the buildings in it. If such were the case every port in Australia would need to be fortified.  Senator Brown  has suggested that Cooktown should be equipped as a possible naval base, apparently for refuelling. He must therefore believe in Australia having a navy. Yet the members of the Labour party contend that no member of the Australian defence forces should serve outside Australia. Therefore none of our naval ships should go beyond the threemile limit; if it did so the fundamental policy of the Labour party that under no circumstances whatever must an Aus tralian serve outside Australia as a member of a fighting unit would be violated. I suggest that members of the Labour party should re-consider their defence policy, because their constant talk of " adequate defence " without any explanations only irritates their listeners. 
I listened with interest to what  Senator Brand  said about the return of the military college to Duntroon. I understand that the new buildings to be constructed for the college will be of a permanent character. When the establishment of the college was first proposed, General Bridges, who was to be the  first commandant was asked to advise the Government as to the class of 'buildings to be constructed. General Bridges realized the impossibility of  forseeing  the future expansion and development of the Australian Military Forces. While he would have liked to have seen a permanent building erected, he appreciated that development in years to come might necessitate the remodelling of the entire layout. A lecture-room designed to accommodate a certain number of cadets might be erected adjacent to another structure. Later, when it became necessary to increase the area of the lecture-room, one building would have to be demolished to allow the other to be extended. Therefore, General Bridges preferred to have some of the buildings permanent and others temporary. Subsequent events showed how sound was his advice. The new college buildings will be planned on more uptodate lines. 
I can allay  Senator Leckie's  fears that the munition factories at Maribyrnong may unduly compete with private enterprise. That competition has been very much reduced since the Scullin Government left office. Apparently that Government sought to make the factories the genesis of State socialism. It is not pretended for one moment that these factories will be able to supply all the munitions that Australia will require in the event of war, but it is essential, as the late war demonstrated, to have a corps of experts to instruct citizens in the method of making munitions and also to advise on ways to convert certain manufacturing plants to these purposes. Such a corps must be trained in peace time, and consequently the individuals must have something to do to occupy themselves. They can be employed at jobs similar to those they would have to do in time of war. The policy of the Government is that there shall be a minimum of interference with private enterprise. The Maribyrnong factories are making materials that are not manufactured by private enterprise in Australia. Little interference or unfair competition with private enterprise can be charged against these establishments. 
The remarks of  Senator Leckie  regarding the employment of retiring members of the air force will be brought to the notice of the .Minister for Defence. 

 Senator James McLachlan dealt with postal matters, and I am sure that the Postmaster-General will supply in committee the information that he seeks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a. second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
There is an item of £115,000 for expenditure under the War Service Homes Act. Does that provide for new homes and additions to homes, and, if so, what amount will be expended in Western Australia? 
[6.11]. - With the unexpended balance of £10,614 of the funds made available under the act, the amount provided is increased to £125,614. The allocations are: (a) To provide extra, accommodation, sewerage and discharge of amounts owing in respect of sewerage already installed £45,600. (Z&gt;) To unemployed purchasers for the supply of paint,  &amp;c,  for the purpose of renovating homes occupied - £6,950. (c) For the erection of homes and discharge of onerous mortgages £73,064. Total, £125,614. 
It is anticipated that the sums in (a) and  (b)  will satisfy waiting applications and those likely to be received during 1935-36. As to (c) the total of loans applied for at the 30th June, 1935, amounted to £202,155. The provision of £73,064 will not satisfy all applications and at the 30th June, 1936 the balance of unsatisfied applications will total £129,091, assuming that all are successful, which does not appear at all likely. It is anticipated that after making an allowance for applications refused because of unsuitable proposals, the balance of £129,091 will be reduced to £110,000. 
Will the Minister furnish some particulars about the item for the purchase of a vessel for the development of the fisheries industry? The item appeared in the Estimates two years ago and again last year. 
. Some considerable time ago the development branch of the Prime Minister's Department embarked on a survey of the possibilities of Australian fisheries. It was resolved that the operations should be confined to an examination of pelagic or surface swimming fish on the Australian coast; trawling would not be undertaken. The type of vessel was decided upon on advice received from England, and two classes of nets were to be used. The Government proceeded with the plans and specifications of a vessel capable of using a drift net as well as a purseine net, but tests disclosed that this would involve an element of difficulty. Therefore it was decided to employ the purseine net only. Plans and specifications had to be altered and they are now being considered by Australian contractors, for the Government has decided to have the vessel built in this country. 

 Silting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

I shall be obliged if the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral will furnish the committee with some details of the alterations being carried out to the High Court at Melbourne, at an estimated cost this year of £4,525. 
Honorable senators may perhaps remember the complaints that were made by the justices of the High Court some time ago concerning the nature of the accommodation provided  in  Melbourne. During extremely hot weather they were forced to leave the building, and had to depend upon the courtesy of the Supreme Court of Victoria for suitable rooms in which to transact High Court business. Last year the sum of £19,505 was made available under the Loan (Unemployment Relief) Act. The total estimated cost of alterations to the building, including the addition of another story, was £24,030. The following contracts were let: - Alterations to building, W. C. Burney and Sons, £21,210; steel frames for windows, Trevor Building Equipment Company, £530; heating and ventilating,. Frencham and Wylie, £674; toilet partitions, &amp;c, Australian Metal Products Company, -£233 ; electric copper glazing, T. S. Gill and Son, £231 ; making a total of £22,878. The electrical installation, costing £1,25,0, and minor alterations, £298, were carried out by departmental labour. The sum of £4,525, appearing in this schedule, is additional to the amount made available last year. The court has been remodelled, after consultation with the justices, to provide additional accommodation for the High Court, as well as rooms for the Bankruptcy Court and the judge in bankruptcy. I understand that the work is now practically completed. 
.- I notice, under the Department of the Interior, an item of £120,000 for expenditure under the River Murray Waters Act 1915-1933. I take it that this is part of the £480,000 to be expended by the respective governments during the presentyear. Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior say whether it is proposed to construct a barrage at the mouth of the river Murray in South Australia, what works are being carried out at the Hume Weir, and whether consideration has been given to the recommendation of the commission which in 1929 investigated the cost of the river Murray waters scheme? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [8.7].  -  Following the report of the River Murray Commission in 1929, there was a revision of the entire scheme, resulting in the elimination of some of the proposed locks. The schedule makes provision for an expenditure on the New 
South Wales side of the Hume Weir of £36,000, of which amount £10,000 is for construction and £26,000 for land resumption. On the Victorian side £5,000 will be expended for construction, £2,000 for roads and railway deviations, and £60,000 for land resumption. In South Australia, in addition to £2,000 for weir and lock No. 7, there is provision for £130,000 for barrages in th« vicinity of the Murray mouth. 
 Under the Department of Defence there is provision for land-plane and sea-plane equipment and plant, &amp;c. As the Senate has not yet had any statement with regard to these works, perhaps the Minister will  be  good enough now to furnish some particulars of the proposed expenditure. I understand tha.t the item includes part of the contemplated expenditure of nearly £100,000 for ground organization preliminary to development of air mail services. 
The sum of £100,000 has been set aside by Cabinet for the purpose of providing the necessary facilities to speed up interstate mail services. As this work has to be carried out in cc-operation with the Department of Civil Aviation, £50,000 has been allocated to that branch. Portion of the amount is included in the item to which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has referred. Other amounts will be sot aside from time to time when required. The proposal has not yet been fully developed, because the Controller of Civil Aviation has just returned from overseas, where he made exhaustive inquiries into the most modern methods of transport by air. My department also has an officer abroad inquiring into radio communications with aeroplanes, also modern lighting systems and methods for control of aeroplanes. As night flying is visualized, his inquiries include the lighting of aerodromes, to ensure the safety of passengers and mails. It is estimated that during the current year the expenditure under these heads will not exceed £50,000. Precise details cannot, at this stage, be given, but I may add that even if the larger scheme cannot be implemented, the work which will be done will be of very great value in connexion with the development of overseas and internal air mail services. 
.- Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior furnish any information with regard to the item, £6,500 under the Department of Commerce for buildings, works and sites? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [S.14].  -  The provision includes an amount of £6,000 to cover the proportion of the cost to be borne by the Commonwealth of erecting shelters for waterside workers in Melbourne. The balance of the provision is required to complete the erection of a cottage at Darwin for the accommodation of a lighthouse mechanic and his family. 
 Is the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  in a position to give particulars of items 1, 2, 3 and 5 of division number 26 covering telephone and telegraph services and buildings, works and sites? Will the expenditure proposed improve communications generally in rural areas? 
Provision has been made for the improvement of road mail services. During the depression, many services were cither suspended or curtailed, and it is intended to restore all of them except those which are entirely uneconomic. 
The sum of £1,032,500 is provided for telephone exchange services. The Government does not regard some of the existing telephone services as satisfactory because of the" restricted number of hours during which the offices are open, and for that reason additional automatic exchanges are being provided. 
Under item 5 "Buildings, Works and Sites additions and alterations will be made to the post offices at Bayswater, Boyanup, Capel, Cottesloe, Harvey, Leederville, and Onslow, and line sheds will be constructed at Lake Grace, Manjimup and Quairading, Western Australia. The major new public works in that State include a broadcasting station and quarters at Wagin, and telephone exchanges at Victoria Park and Maylands. Alterations will be made to the post offices at Kalgoorlie and Wiluna, and provision is also made for an additional broadcasting station. 
The Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  has told us that Brisbane is not to be provided with a new general post office this year. Business people in the vicinity of the Valley post office, Brisbane, complain that it is inadequate for the requirements of the district.  I  should like to know whether provision is made for a new building to be erected there. 
The agitation for improved postal facilities at Fortitude Valley has continued for a number of years. As soon as possible, I propose to visit Queensland, which is the only State I have not visited since I became PostmasterGeneral. Queensland will be generously treated under these proposals. At Oakey post office, a footpath will be constructed, and at the Brisbane General Post Office, a telephone pay station will be provided. Additions will be made to the Goondiwindi post office; garages and line sheds will be constructed at various places, and a number of rural automatic telephone exchanges will be erected. A broadcasting station and quarters near Townsville will be constructed at an estimated cost of £5,028; a new post office, costing £5,765, will be built at Ayr; £1,000 is set down towards the cost of a new post office at Bowen; Quilpie is to have a new post office costing £2,040; and the remodelling of the Cairns post office at an estimated cost of £7,500 is also provided for. Another broadcasting station and quarters will take £9,920; additions to the Emerald telephone exchange will require £500; and £1,000 has been set apart for a new post office at Pomona. 
.- Can the Postmaster-General say what sites have been selected for national broadcasting services for which £103,000 is included in the schedule? 
The stations in respect of which this money will be expended are situated at Wagin and Kalgoorlie, Western Aus- tralia; the Horsham district of Victoria; near Dubbo and in the Northern Rivers district of New South "Wales; and Townsville, Queensland. 
No. 
Is provision made in these Estimates for a broadcasting station in the "Western district of Queensland? 
Is the policy of extending country telephone lines to be continued, and, if so, will subscribers, in addition to paying half the cost of such extensions, be required to pay rental for their telephones ? 
That question does not arise in connexion with, these Estimates. I can say, however, that country districts are being well catered for in regard to telephones. 
 Do these Estimates cover the transfer of the, " A " class broadcasting studio from its present unsatisfactory position at the corner of Milligan-street, Perth, to the new site chosen in Mill-street? 
The Broadcasting Commission has- informed me unofficially that out of its own funds, it intends to proceed with the transfer of the existing " A " class studio in Perth to another site in Mill-street. There has been some delay in connexion with a sewer easement, but that has now been overcome. Plans have been prepared and tenders called, and I expect that the work will soon be commenced. These Estimates do notcover the expenditure. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The local builders are now engaged in considering plans and specifications prepared in the light of information received from England and Canada. The Government desires to adopt the suggestions which have been made with a view to avoiding a repetition of its experience with theEndeavour. Later the specifications will be submitted to a special committee, and the Government will be guided by its recommendations and the capacity of the various docks. I understand that approximately six months will be required to complete the construction of the vessel. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a  third  time. 
.- I direct the attention of the Senate to the unsatisfactory nature of the answers I received to a series of questions which I submitted to-day to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. The first question read: - 
In view of the success of the Fairbridge Farm School in Western Australia, and the apparent necessity for a substantial increase of the population of the Commonwealth, has the Government considered  the  advisability of establishing in various parts of  the  Commonwealth similar farm schools as a  definite  aid to such increase? 
The answer I received read - 
The matter of assistance in the establishment of farm schools on the lines of the Fairbridge Farm School of Western Australia is one which primarily concerns the governments of  the  States. The question of the financial co-operation with the Government of any State which may grant assistance towards the establishment of a farm school of this kind will receive consideration should occasion arise. 
The second question "was - 
Has the Government approached the British Government to ascertain what financial assistance would be forthcoming if such a scheme were established? 
The answer was " No ". The third question was -  li not, will the Government give early consideration to the feasibility and practicability of something being done in this direction ? 
The reply received was " see answer to No. 1." The suggestion contained in these answers is that the population of Australia is a subject in which the Commonwealth Government is not particularly interested. Yet the increase of the population is of more concern to the Commonwealth Government than to any State government. Recently I read that one Commonwealth department is' interesting itself in the health of the nation. If the health of the people is of importance from a Commonwealth view-point, surely the diminution of population should not be disregarded. Statistics disclose the dangerous position into which we are drifting. It is appalling to find that Australia, far removed as it is from the homeland, upon which we have to depend for our defence, is unable to maintain its population. It is a lamentable fact that whilst from 1921 to 1933 the population of Australia has increased by over 1,000,000, the natural increase during the same period has fallen from 84,000 to 52,000 annually. Those who have travelled in over-populated countries must, have realized that we cannot hope to hold this country indefinitely unless  it3  population increases. I suggested that, without imperilling in any way the working class community of Australia, a move should be made almost immediately to assist Great Britain to provide for those children who, confined as many of them are to restricted areas, may never have a chance in life. The gentleman after whom the farm-school in Western Australia is named had a vision; anr], with the assistance of a few other Oxford graduates, determined to make it his life work to rescue some of the boys and girls of Britain from their sordid surroundings and transport them to some portion of the British dominions where they could lead a more useful life. The British Government and certain individuals contributed materially to the success of the scheme. 
Yes. I believe that the right honorable the Prime Minister was in earnest when, shortly after his return from abroad, he said that the increase of our population is of vital concern to the Commonwealth. 
I realize that. T am anxious to ascertain whether the Government has endeavoured to secure the co-operation of the States in the establishment of farm schools. I trust that the Government will realize the gravity of the situation, and take the first step to assist this desirable project. 
That is quite apart from the subject I am discussing. I shall always be willing to promote any scheme to help Australian children. At the moment I am stressing the necessity to increase our population. I trust that the Government will make a statement on this subject at an early date. 
[8.43]. - When replies are given to questions which invite a statement of Government policy, an honorable senator is usually informed that it is not the practice to make statements of policy by way of reply to questions. Obviously the honorable senator who is seeking a statement of policy has assumed from the reply received that the Commonwealth is not interested in the subject raised. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Commonwealth Government is giving practical support to the Fairbridge 
Farm School, and the answer given concerning the establishment of similar farms is accurate, as such matters obviously concern only State governments which control agricultural departments. Farm schools, such as the Fairbridge Farm School, must obviously be established on the initiative of the States. The Commonwealth Government does not own land. The Government is not unmindful of the present State of Australia's population, but, obviously, it cannot state matters of policy in reply to questions. I cannot make a statement at this juncture, but I hope to be able to do so at an early date. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
It is understood that this is a fact. 2 and 3. So far as is known, the policy which is being pursued by the Commission cannot be regarded as giving rise to unfair competition. The commission is apparently acting under the powers conferred on it by Parliament, as laid down in section 17 of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Act.  invalid and old-age pensions. 
Payment by Cheque. 

 Senator DEIN (through  Senator 
Foll) asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will lie consider the advisability of extending the principle' of cheque payments to pensioners (old-age and invalid) in order to save  many of these unfortunate people great inconvenience, and also to protect them from certain people w ho exact a commission tor drawing their pensions for them ' 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Treasurer has supplied the following answer : - 
Any pensioner who is unable to collect his pension personally, and cannot obtain a suitable person to collect it on hia behalf, may obtain payment by cheque. The department will not countenance the making of a charge by any person for collecting a pension on behalf of a pensioner. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited conducting all its financial business through the Common wealth Bank; if not, why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.,The  Treasurer lias supplied the following answer: -  l  am advised that Commonwealth Oil 
Refineries Limited conducts the whole of its banking business through the Commonwealth Bank. In certain country districts, where there is no branch of the Commonwealth Bank, receiving offices of other banks act as agents of the Commonwealth Bank. 
[11.6].- I move- 
That Hie bill be now read a second time.' 
Although this measure lias a somewhat high-sounding title it is a small bill.  It  appropriates for works £170,000 from loan funds, the raising of which was authorized by Parliament in legislation passed last. year. The total of the- loan estimates for 1935-3G is £5,243,506. This total includes £3,000,000 for this year's estimated requirements under the Farmers' Debt Adjustment  Act  and £1,216,750 for financial assistance,  to  the States for unemployment relief works, &amp;c. These amounts are covered  by  appropriations passed during 1.934-35. The balance of the loan estimates, namely, £1,026,756, is for expenditure on Commonwealth works during this financial year. Of this total, £856,750 represents the balance of the loan appropriations passed last year for this purpose, leaving only the sum of £170,000 for which further parliamentary appropriation is now required. The amount' of £170,000 for which provision is made in the bill is for works in the Federal Capital Territory and includes £100,000 towards the cost, of developmental work incidental to the transfer of staffs to Canberra. This sum will be expended on the commence-ment of the construction of office accommodation, the erection of cottages which will be required for officers who are to be transferred to Canberra, and necessary engineering services. As honorable senators are aware, the Government has approved of the return to Duntroon of the Royal Military College. Therefore £70,000 has been included in the bill for the provision of architectural and engineering services incidental to the erection of cottages for occupation by tenants who are at present housed in cottages at Duntroon. 
 Honorable senators on this side of the chamber will not offer any opposition to the speedy passage of this bill, because they are glad that thi: Government is, somewhat tardily, doing the right thing by the Federal Capital Territory. In regard to the proposed expenditure of £100,000 towards the -cost of developmental works incidental to the transfer of staffs to Canberra, I am disappointed to find that provision has not been made directly or indirectly, to improve the conditions 'of persons living at . the Molonglo and Causeway settlements. I do not wish to establish a reputation  foi  always harping on the one subject; but the position which exists in these settlements is, putting it mildly, so objectionable and- so discreditable, that I cannot understand why the Government allows it to continue. The. cottages at the Causeway and Molonglo, which are built of single weatherboards, were erected for the accommodation of German internees, and were never intended to be used as permanent residences. Matters developed in such a way that 'our own people are now occupying them. There is no need for me to go into those details which I have so often recited in this chamber, but I should like to mention that the timber in the framework of the windows has shrunk to such an extent that the wind and weather is kept out only by stuffing newspapers into the crevices. That is a good way in which to use many newspapers, of which I have some knowledge. I read a paragraph the other day to the effect that good white paper manufactured from clean rags is used by newspaper editors upon which to print lies. Will the Leader of the Senate state whether the expenditure of  £50,000  would enable a start to be made on the provision of more suitable cottages for these people ? 
Yes ; but those cottages will not be occupied by families now living at the Causeway and Molonglo ; they are being erected to house persons who can afford a better type of dwelling. I should like honorable sena.tors to visit these settlements, and if they wish to do so I shall be prepared to pay my proportion of the cost of hiring a bus for the purpose. They should go into the homes, as I did, and ascertain the unsatisfactory conditions under which the tenants are living. Many of the men who have been out of work for long periods, are being pressed by private firms acting as agents for the Government, for arrears of rent, and some are likely to be sued as they cannot pay the rent charged for these terrible shacks. We intend to support the bill, because it is obviously the intention of the Government to do a measure of justice to the Federal Capital Territory, and because the expenditure will provide employment. 
 Provision is made in the bill foi- the appropriation of  £59,500  for architectural services. Is that amount being spent solely on architectural work? 
When I visited tho Molonglo and Causeway settlements, I found that the houses, some of which I inspected very closely both inside and out, are a disgrace to Canberra, and par- ticularly to this Government. In one cottage the occupant had erected a tent fly to prevent the rain which was leaking through the roof from reaching the bed. A private landlord would soon find himself in trouble if such conditions were known to exist in buildings owned by him. It is the duty of the Government to see that its tenants are properly accommodated. Canberra is destined to be the garden city of the Commonwealth; but it cannot rightly claim that distinction while the unsatisfactory buildings now at Molonglo and Causeway remain. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause  1  agreed to. 
Clause  2  (Issue and application of  £170,000). 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs)-  [11.16]. -  I wish to correct a wrong impression in the mind of  Senator Collings  that the Commonwealth is employing agents to collect rents from Canberra tenants. That practice has been discontinued, and rents are now collected by the officers of the department. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Both  Senator Collings  and  Senator Brown  seem to assume that it is the duty of the Government to provide a home in Canberra for every person who seeks one. 
.- The Leader, of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  referred to Brisbane. In no part of Queensland are there tenements comparable with those at Molonglo and Causeway, to which I referred. I did not say that it is the duty of the Government of the Commonwealth or of Queensland to provide a home for every one who wants to live in either Canberra or Brisbane; but I do say that the Commonwealth Government, as the landlord of these wretched places at Molonglo and Causeway, ought to be ashamed of itself, and should give to its tenants an opportunity to occupy better homes. The buildings which they now occupy were provided for those workers whom the government of the day was exceedingly glad to obtain in the initial stage of the building of this city. I have no desire to embarrass the 'Government, because my long experience in municipalities and in State and Federal governments has given me a knowledge of the responsibilities of office; but I say that it is the duty of the Government to have regard to the needs of the " under dog " before launching out on fantastic schemes for the benefit of those who are much better circumstanced. I hope that the Leader of the Senate will not think that, in referring to these unsatisfactory dwellings, the Opposition has indulged in captious criticism. I would indeed be glad if the right honorable gentleman were to say that the Government had decided to spend, say £40,000 in erecting suitable cottages for the people now occupying these unhealthy tenements. 
.- Instead of being a landlord in this capital city, the Government should encourage private enterprise to erect buildings for the people. 
Were the Government to leave the erection of homes to private enterprise, it would not be subject to criticism as a landlord. I hope that the Government will build as few homes as possible here, but will encourage private enterprise to do so. I hope, moreover, that the buildings which are to be erected 'by the Government will be carried out by contract, not by day labour. 
.- The sum of £100,000 is to be appropriated by this bill towards the cost of developmental works incidental to the transfer of staffs to Canberra. Already, as has been pointed out this morning, considerable difficulty is experienced in securing homes in Canberra, and it would appear that if further transfers of . public servants are made, that difficulty will be accentuated. I should like the Minister to say when the staffs still remaining in Melbourne are likely to be transferred ? 
With reference to the remarks of SenatorLeckie, I should like to say that it would be a bad day for Australia if private ownership of land in the national capital were permitted. In this almost sacred area no encouragement should be given to speculators and profiteers. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [11.25]. - The amount of £100,000 is to meet preliminary expenses incidental to the transfer of the departments still remaining in Melbourne. The work of transferring them cannot be completed in a day; a good deal of office and other accommodation must first be provided. The expenditure proposed will enable a beginning to be made. 
Clause agreed to. 
Schedule and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
This bill is one of the most important measures which has ever come before this chamber. It is important in that honorable senators may so easily be led astray by their preconceived notions and prejudices and mistake it for something entirely different from what it really is. I pass on to the Senate, particularly the Minister who moved the second reading, the following quotation which I read recently: - 
Society has just two moral enemies - the man who will not speak his mind, and the man who tries to close the mouths of those who do not think as he does. 
The Opposition will fight this bill at every stage, using the forms of the Senate to place its case before the people of Australia. It is not so foolish as to believe that it can defeat the hill, because it knows that honorable senators opposite have already made up their minds concerning the measure, and that the Government, with their support, will secure its passage through the Senate. The bill is essentially one for consideration in committee; and it is there that the Opposition will most strenuously oppose it. "We have often heard it said that a decision can be arrived at without prejudice. The words " without prejudice" frequently appear in legal documents, but an article I read recently said that a citizen without prejudice does not exist, and that there is no such thing as a judge without prejudice. It went on to say that when a judge passes sentence on a prisoner he merely, through the individual in the dock, punishes himself for crimes which he has sub-consciously committed. Those who have read anything of psycho-analysis know that nothing is really as it appears to be on the surface. "We are ail of us more or less masquerading as something which we have no claim to be. The reason why I stress that is that I want honorable senators to approach this matter calmly and without prejudice, otherwise wrong decisions will be reached. The whole of this bill shows that it has been drafted in a spirit of fear entirely antiAustralian, a spirit which is the greatest of all the enemies of human kind. Every bill prepared by official draftsmen under instructions from the Government and brought before this chamber should be drafted in a spirit of hope in all that is best in this great Australian continent of ours and not in the spirit of that worst of all human enemies, fear. We should have both faith and hope in the Australian people and in the future of this  country.  Are we going to sit here like cowering wretches discussing a bill and casting our vote upon it as people with no conception of the historic mission of the Australian people, as people unacquainted with the type of citizen sent here from our kith and kin across the seas to lay the foundations of this country? Most of us in this assembly are elderly men. Are we in such a craven atmosphere mentally that we think all wisdom will expire when we expire? God help Australia if that is the position ! We will be recreant to our faith in this wonderful continent and to our belief in ite future possibilities if we pass this bill because it has been cast in a hopeless spirit of fear. 
Let us consider for . a few moments the history of Australia. My parents emigrated to this country from the south of England a long time after the arrival of convicts on Australian shores. At that time I was young enough and enthusiastic enough - and I owe a tremendous lot both mentally and physically to my parents - to appreciate Australia and its history, and all that had happened in it and to it. I realized that hundreds of men and women had been sent into this country convicted only of political offences. It would make an interesting topic for discussion in this chamber if I could pass before the mental vision of honorable senators all the things that have happened in Australia. I knew some of the people who were transported to this country for political reasons. On the ship in which I arrived in Australia there  were  five or six families who had left the. Old Country because of their political convictions. The primary reason for their decision to emigrate to Australia was probably thesame as that which brought about theemigration of my own family - father, mother and seven children - that there wasno chance in the Old Country for an. honest .man to get a living which would enable him to retain his pride. Five or six families on that ship left England because of the persecution to which they were subjected because they would not submit to what was then the orthodox view, When I say that, honorable senators may get some idea of how I appreciate my residence of considerably more than half a century in this wonderful country. I well remember in the Old Country when my father's 25s. was due on Saturday night, journeying into the city and standing over the grating in front of one of the largest emporiums, and my father handing up to me through the grating his weekly wages. When I took his wages home, I used to sit with my mother and jot down on the bellows at the fireside with a piece of chalk how that 25s. was to go round, and cover the needs of our family for the ensuing week. When I came to this country I was so embittered against England that I endeavoured to forget I had ever had any connexion with it, remembering only that I was now in the new land of Australia which offered a chance for every honest man and woman to build up a social order that would be worth while. 
I do not. suggest anything of the kind, and before I conclude my remarks I shall endeavour to demonstrate that. I have lived long enough to see all the things which in my youth were regarded as unorthodox, nonpermissible and punishable by law, become the orthodoxy of to-day. Yet because of the craven fear of those responsible for this bill, because they have no faith in the people of Australia, and because they believe, apparently, that with the passing of this generation all -wisdom will die, it is proposed to penalize people for ideas which will be the accepted orthodoxy of the years to come. 
I hope that  Senator Hardy  will not overdo the " young man in a hurry " act. If, when I resume my seat, I have failed to make a clear statement of my case,  Senator Hardy  will have ample opportuity  to tear my presentation to pieces. I take it that some honorable senators present to-day were probably engaged in mining in the early days of Australian history, and that they have heard of a certain incident known in history as the Eureka Stockade. Australia is not ashamed of that incident, nor am I. I am proud of the fact that my forbears were prepared at all costs to themselves to defy the authorities of the day. They demanded their rights, and they got them.  Senator Hardy  wants to know if we could have got along without a penal code. In all ages people in positions of authority have sought to impose their will by force on those not in a position of authority. The actuating motive has not always been the same except that reliance has always been on force and fear. You may exterminate the enemies of to-day, but to-morrow they will rise from the ground ten thousand times stronger. In Austria, Italy and Germany the best elements in the community have been driven underground by just such measures as we are discussing here to-day. Those elements have been driven underground because the opinions they have expressed do not suit those in place and power. I do not suggest that we should not have penal laws, nor do I find any fault with our present form of constitutional government. On the contrary, recent happenings in Europe are the best indication of the fact that with a limited monarchy and our present parliamentary institutions British people have the best form of government known to the world. But the best of our liberties are not based on a penal code of this drastic nature. It i3 impossible to place in proper review all the facts, ideas and ideals which I should like honorable senators to have in front of them before they cast their vote on this measure; but in order to show the position we have reached, let us look back along the road over which we have passed. In this way we will get some idea of the road along which we must travel if we are to reach our goal - the fulfilment of Australia's historic mission as a great democracy in the southern seas. The Melbourne  Argus  of the 10th November, 1S54, published the following : - 
I am disappointed by that interjection; I am endeavouring to lift this discussion to the highest possible plane, and to convince honorable senators who are supporting the Government that they are wrong and can never be right while they retain the inhibitions and prejudices they have today. Yet the best I can get from  Senator Brennan,  who is sponsoring the measure, is a smirk of smug satisfaction, because he has said something which he regards as witty. Queensland was the first Australian State to abolish capital punishment. When I was much younger, I took an active part in the campaign to do away with the death penalty, and the propaganda for that purpose was most unpopular. Long before those days British criminal code punished with death 32 crimes, ranging from sheep-stealing to murder. Every one of those crimes was rampant in that period of the world's history, but capital punishment was no deterrent. The repressive measures taken did not accomplish their objective. Gradually we overcame prejudices and modified the harsh legislation until we achieved the abolition of capital punishment in many countries. A tremendous reduction in the number of those crimes resulted, some of them disappearing altogether, and the numbers of others becoming negligibly small. I mention those facts not to extol the abolition of capital punishment, but to illustrate my contention that repressive measures do not achieve their purpose. The  Canberra Times  of the 16th November, 1934, printed a significant article from Shanghai, entitled "Battle of Sexes: Chinese Women's Victory. Law to be Revised." The women of 'China gained a remarkable victory, in that they have shaken themselves free of some of the age-old customs which bound them in mental and other forms of slavery. In Australia, too, the movement towards emancipation must continue, despite a repressive penal code. One writer has put it - 
Blessed are they who were not satisfied to let well enough alone. 
All that the world is to-day we owe to them. 
From the  Canberra Times  of the same date, I took this extract - 
I am glad to have the interjection; it discloses more than anything else the inferiority complex of the honorable senator and his incapacity to understand a reasoned argument. Until we are prepared to give human beings the same chance as we give to racehorses we shall have little cause to be proud of the children we rear. I anticipate that  Senator Brennan  will say that eugenics are not referred to in this bill. I am well aware of that. I am judging the bill, not so much by what it says, as by what it leaves unsaid. "When I was young theories such  as eugenics were " tabu ". I shall have none of these measures, because in my youth the same repression as is here proposed was applied to me and others who advocated the unorthodox and unconventional. Once upon a time  Senator Pearce  belonged to the same political party as I do, and I figuratively sat at his feet and paid him reverence because he was then and still is a very capable man. But the time came when  Senator Pearce  informed me that he controlled a secret service in Australia superior to any in the world, adding - " Collings, you cannot open your mouth without my knowing of it in Melbourne within 24 hours ".  Senator Pearce  cannot expect me to approach this bill with equanimity. I have been for many years what is called an agitator - an advocate of unorthodox ideas - and I have been dismissed from my employment and ostracized both socially and economically because of my enunciation of birth control and other advanced ideas which since have come to be generally accepted. This bill will penalize succeeding generations if they in their turn happen to hold unorthodox ideas. One of the greatest intellects in the world to-day,  Mr. G.  B. Shaw, said - 
Man raises himself from mere consciousness to knowledge- 
I hope  Senator Brennan  is paying attention. A toad in a hole has consciousness but not knowedge  - by daring more and more to face facts and tell himself the truth. 
That is what I want honorable senators to do now. I have two copies of a publication entitled  The Soviets To-day,  and in order that I shall not be misunderstood, for I know I shall be misinterpreted, I emphasize that I have no sympathy with any of the activities of the Communist party in Australia. As the official organizer of the Australian Labour party in Queensland, I assisted in drafting every resolution which expelled the communists from membership of that organization. The Australian Labour party does not deny to communists the right. to propagate their ideas, but it has created a political structure, and will not allow any section - whether communists, vegetarians, or calathumpians - to carry on propaganda within that organization. The Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  placed an embargo on  The Soviets To-day.  I wonder if .he ever saw it. I have read these copies and consider them remarkable productions. Not one word of propaganda is contained in them, unless the publication of the news of what is going on in Russia can be deemed to be propaganda. I shall lay these papers on the table of the chamber and I hope that honorable senators will find an opportunity to peruse them. 
I do not propose to engage in a dissertation on Russia. I do not believe it is possible to put the Soviet policy into effect in Australia nor do I believe that it will ever be introduced here. Nevertheless, Sovietism is the only policy possible for the vast country of Russia, considering its present stage of development and its historical background. The Russian people are entitled to the system they have, but I would not support its introduction in Australia. I warn honorable senators, however, against the danger of disregarding what is happening in Russia. The greatest social experiment in the world's history is proceeding there and if honorable senators are wilfully blind to what is happening they will not be worthy representatives of the Australian people. They may not approve or disapprove of this remarkable social experiment but at least they should try to understand it. The titles of some of the articles in  The Soviets To-day  are - " The Central Association Soviet Republic ", " Hollywood Recognizes Soviet Art '", " Soviet Election, Exclusive News ". There is nothing wrong with those subjects. In my opinion it was a disgrace to prevent these publications from coming through the post, and I say that after having been responsible for driving the Friends of the Soviet Union out of the Australian Labour party organization in Queensland. I have made it my business to find out what the off-shoots of communism are. 
No ; and if it is declared unlawful, such action will be a disgrace to the intellectual standards of this country. 
I agree, and I remind the Assistant Minister that any remarks which I have made in this connexion were in reply to leading questions, in the form of interjections, but I shall desist. 
My purpose is to emphasize the iniquitous nature of the provisions contained in the bill. I am completely at a loss to understand why its framers have not been able to improve on provisions in earlier legislation of similar character, and have managed to include in it so many repressive provisions calculated to impede intellectual and economic progress. I have in my hand two publications printed in Great Britain, which I commend to honorable senators.  Labor,  the title of one, contains a number of contributions from some of the greatest thinkers in the Mother Country. Haphazard, I select the following from an article written by  Mr. Hector  Hughes, K.C.- 
Idealists have talked and lyric poets have sung of our glorious liberties. They have reminded us that - 
This England, this whitefaced shore, 
Whose foot spurns back themain 
And coops from other lands her islanders, garners many other things as well. Her characteristic faculty shrewdly practised for trying it on the dog enables her to profit by political and economic experiments on other peoples. Ten years of Fascism in Italy, and some months of Naziism in Germany, alike provide spectacles upon which she gazes, with a selective and discerning eye. The Mosleys and others may rush wildly down either of those steep places into the sea of political experiment and perhaps oblivion. But this stolid island race remains unmoved, secure in the liberties for which its forefathers bled and died. 
Yet this bill, which we are now asked to approve, makes a direct assault upon cherished principles for which, in the Mother Country, the forefathers of some of us fought and died. The measure is a futile effort on the part of the Government to deal with certain conditions allegedly existing in this country. One section of it deals particularly with, espionage and the defence of the Commonwealth; the other relates more particularly to political matters. "When the bill is in committee, I shall have something to say about those obnoxious provisions. I am not so much concerned about that section of the bill dealing with espionage, because I know that it is the duty of the Government to provide legislative safeguards for the Australian navy, army, and air force. Yesterday, one honorable senator who, I think, is in the chamber "at this moment, very truthfully declared, " If you have a contented service; if you treat men properly and give them decent food, you need never fear revolution."  His  observation puts the position in a nutshell. It is the hungry man, the man who has been unjustly treated by his superiors, the man who is made to understand his position ofinferiority in the scheme of things, whether it be in the army, navy, or air force, who is ripe for treason. So I say that if we put our own house in order; if we see that men are treated as human beings and not as so many cogs in a machine without having the right to speak or act when they so desire, there will be no need for repressive legislation like the bill now before this chamber. But it is in relation to those provisions of the bill dealing with political matters that I wish to be a little more definite. 
We have been told that, as regards the defence of Australia, the bill will bring Australia into line with the Mother Country. What a wonderful statement! I hope that I shall not be out of order if I say to Government supporters that if they knew what was going on behind the scenes in this country they would surely know that legislation similar to the bill which we are now considering was adopted in Great Britain fifteen years ago. Apparently, the wiseacres in this Government have at last awakened to the fact that legislation which was in force fifteen years ago in England is necessary to prevent this country from getting into trouble! Let me tell the Assistant Minister, if he does not already know it, that when Lord Peel introduced the Official Secrets Act in the British Parliament, he stated, in effect, that it embodied the war experiences of the Mother Country in countering espionage. The Assistant Minister, in moving the second reading of this bill, said that when forwarding to the Governor-General a copy of the English act, the Secretary of State stated that its main features were regarded by the Army Council "as of the utmost importance from the point of view of defence." The Official Secrets Act, I repeat, was passed in Great Britain in 1920, and as this bill is modelled on that measure, it is. a very belated attempt to bring the Commonwealth into line with the legislation of the Mother Country. 
 1  agree with the honorable senator, but I arn. constrained to add that the Government and its supporters are always late, and they never succeed in doing anything to bring this country into line with the best thought in England or other parts of the world. 
It is interesting to note that the bill is the outcome of suggestions made by the Army Council, but as fifteen years have passed since the Official Secrets Act was passed, it can ^hardly be urged that there is need to hurry. Do Government supporters really think that they know what is happening on the other side, of the world? Do they natter themselves that their information regarding events in Italy and Abyssinia is quite up to date? Have they not yet awakened to the fact that this Parliament - the Senate and the House of Representatives - is only a pawn in the game of international politics, and that the Government moves at the dictation of other people, some of whom are actuated by the most sordid motives? Do they not know that there is no war on with Australia? This being so, why this haste in preparing for war! 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  who for many years occupied the position of Minister for Defence, and, notwithstanding his somewhat circumscribed outlook, discharged his duties very ably, will probably tell us that the bill is necessary for the protection of Australia. All this foolish talk of protecting the Commonwealth is based on a false premise. If we really desire to protect Australia from aggression, we must prepare to withstand the Strongest nation that is likely to attempt sovereignty over us. But let us face the facts. "Who expects the 7,000,000 of people - men, women, and children - in Australia to do anything of the kind? We know, of course, that all this talk about the bill being designed to ensure our adequate defence is so much twaddle. "  Senator Sampson.  - Does not the honorable senator believe that we can protect ourselves? 
I believe that we can contribute our quota to the adequate defence of Australia. 
I am well aware that  Senator Sampson,  as an experienced soldier, will seek to find a loop-hole in my argument. I used the words " adequate defence " deliberately, because I do not agree with the soldier senators that there is only one way in which we can ensure the defence of this country. If we can fill Australia with a contented population, if we can abolish slums in our capital cities, if we can do away with poverty among the. people and so put aeacon light in the window of this great southern democracy as a guide to other nations, we shall be able to claim that we have taken some measures necessary for its adequate defence. "We shall not achieve this end by following the course indicated by the Leader of the Senate, who, in answer to a question a few days ago, as to what was being done at the munitions factory at Maribyrnong, in Victoria, said that the Government did not intend to interfere with private enterprise to a greater extent than was necessary - that its desire was to ensure the training of a corps of operatives who would be able to render good service to this country in times of national emergency. But on every occasion when protective duties are under discussion in this chamber - measures calculated to contribute to the adequate defence of this country - many Government supporters rise in their places to oppose them, and shed crocodile tears about the awful fate of our primary producers, because they may be obliged to pay a little more for galvanized iron, or barbed wire. 
intend to take  ari  early opportunity to state in the Senate a complete case for the utilization of our vast coal and shale resources, for, despite what  Senator A.  J. McLachlan has said about the difficulty of developing these resources on an economic basis, I know that it can he done, and  I  shall put forward convincing evidence in support of my views. When we have developed our known resources in oil from coal and shale to a stage at which we are independent of outside sources, we shall have gone a long way towards providing for the adequate defence of Australia. I have enough faith in Australians - if we are not all native-born, the majority of us come from grand old British stock - to believe that we can work out our own destiny, and that, if we have a contented population, our citizens will not be found wanting in time of national need. 
I know what  Senator Sampson  means, and he knows what I am  thinking. Profiteering was so rampant in connexion with the manufacture of munitions during the last war that eventually the war government in Great Britain had to take action, and pillory the thieves. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The honorable senator is not discussing the subject-matter of the bill. 
The bill has been framed in a spirit of fear, instead of a spirit of hope. The atmosphere of war, fear and secrecy which surrounds it is entirely  wrong.  I am wondering when we shall have the courage, when talking about the adequate defence of Australia, to set up a peace council instead of an army council, and appoint a minister for peace in the Cabinet. Peace is not attained by repressive legislation. Hyde Park, London, is regularly the venue of great political gatherings, which are harangued by leaders of various sections of thought, but no one in the Mother Country worries about, what is likely to happen; such gatherings are regarded as a safety valve. The good sense of the people can be trusted to assess at their true worth statements made at all such political gatherings. 
It is significant, that repressive legislation is always directed against the workclasses. I may be mistaken but I feel sure it is always the workers who suffer. What action has the Government ever taken to prevent men like Eric Campbell and De Groot, two prominent members of the Nev/ Guard, to foment insurrection in our midst? In the early part of 1931 there was a strong probability -  Senator Brand  will be able to bear me out in this - of insurrection in Sydney. I know that the large firms had instructed their employees to be ready for a raid which did not occur. It was said that a Labour red army was to march up Macquarie-street, and that the New Guard under Campbell and De Groot and persons of that type was to attempt to suppress a raid - a raid which did not eventuate, because the New Guard, faced with the possibility of retaliatory action, became afraid. The Government should establish a peace council instead of allowing a defence council to function. We should have a Minister for peace instead of a Minister for Defence. We should devise ways and means to dispense with war. 
I am willing to stand my ground and to substantiate what I said last week or this week. Freedom and liberty of speech are the greatest principles for which mankind has fought throughout the ages. Thoughts are useless unless translated into words, and  words are  equally futile unless translated into action. This bill is deliberately designed to prevent the people of this country from having any opinion's of their own. We can go back to the time when the greatest teacher the world has ever known appeared on earth, and in turning back the pages of history, we find that Bte came into the arena with a revolutionary doctrine which did not suit the authorities at that time. It was decided that He must be suppressed and on Calvary He was crucified. This bill suggests that another Calvary is being erected and those who wish to speak the truth will again be persecuted. The attempt of the Government to suppress freedom of speech will bring about renewed vigour on the part of some individuals, and before long Ministers will have to eat heir words as others who have endeavoured to suppress the liberties of the people have already been compelled to do. I have complete confidence in the Australian people, and in. the policy of the Australian Labour party. These two factors combined should be more, than sufficient to combat any extreme  doctrines  which may be enunciated. The laws at present on the statute-book relating to sedition have not been brought into operation.  Sir Gordon  Hewart, in defending the Officials Secrets Bill in the House of Commons on the 10 th December, 1920, said - 
It is quite evident from what he (.LieutenantCommander  Kenworthy)  said that lie still cherished the belief that in some way or other this bill is aimed at opinion or at the suppression of opinion. Nothing could bc further from the truth. 
This measure reeks from end to end of an attempt to suppress the free expression of opinion. Why is this Government incapable of getting away from a fear complex? What is wrong with the Australian people? During a century and a half this uountry has been .developed politically to a greater extent than any other country. The introduction of a cast iron discipline of this character suggests that the Australian people cannot be trusted. On the 19th October, 1910, the late  Mr. Alfred  Deakin said - 
Are we not prepared to trust the people of Australia after next year with some competence for dealing with any situation when it arises? Are we not prepared to trust them to meet any emergencies and difficulties if they arise and when they arise? Is all wisdom to die with us  and  all power to meet emergencies and contingencies to be strapped down by a statute-book? 
Fancy we poor souls in this chamber sticking our thumbs into the  armholes  of our vests and, with a wonderful air of superiority and dignity, suggesting that all wisdom will die with us!  Mr. Deakin  continued - 
It is our children that are to follow us. Let us trust them as probably more competent, more Austraiian in spirit, and less hampered by provincial considerations or daydreams of redemption by mere law-making methods. 
Our children should not be harnessed and shackled in any way. The quotation continues - 
Let us face the situation manfully to-day, leaving our country better provided than we found it with the means of progress, and without loss of liberty, still free to meet fresh difficulties and fresh trials as they arise, strong in the faith that our race has so long justified. 
The Government should adhere to that splendid ideal and recast this objectionable measure. 
The statement was made in 1910, when conditions generally were  panicky,  and when an attempt was made to shackle the Australian people. The Assistant Minister knows to what he was referring. 
I know all about Communist propaganda. I travelled through the sugar districts of Queensland fighting it, and if I were not in the Senate to-day I would be continuing the tight against this rotten propaganda. 
On a recent occasion on the Queensland  cane-fields  the opponents of communism won their battle without repressive legislation  of  this character, but with the assistance of the most powerful union in Australia, and a decision of the Arbitration Court. In 1932 some Melbourne University students who expressed communistic doctrines were roughly handled by their fellow-students, and the incident was reported in the Melbourne  Herald  of the 3rd May of that year. The report stated - 
Last night's disturbance at the meeting of the Melbourne University Debating Society was discreditable to those responsible. Those who ill-used the students holding communistic opinions were only imitating the hoodlums and  anti-Australian  foreigners who broke up a meeting on Sunday at the Yarra bank. They were not acting as educated men, but as disturbers displaying mob intelligence. An institution that stands for the free play of the intellect does not need defence by personal violence. As members of the professional staff indicate, it can afford to listen to error in the knowledge that there is perfect safety in enlightenment and truth.  [Extension of time granted.] 
I hope that  Senator Brennan  agrees with Edward Burke - that great historic figure who was not a bad champion of liberty in the days when there was not too much of it - who said - 
Liberty is a good to be enlarged, not an evil to bc diminished. 
Unfortunately, there is a growing tendency to restrict human liberty more and more. In my opinion, the less liberty is restricted, the better for the community as a whole. 
I passed through the war period, but not as a soldier, because I was definitely against conscription. 
I believe that Australia has a contribution to make to the age-old struggle between liberty and suppression. Honorable senators opposite, like dumb, driven cattle, will support the Government when the division bells ring, without knowing the issues at stake. I do not want " George " to do my job; I have never wanted any one to do my job for me. When I have come up against authority, I have always got the worst of it ; but unlike some honorable senators, I have not hauled down my colours. I still stand for Australia, the land of hope and glory. In no other country is liberty so little threatened, except by measures of this kind. Ten years ago a fight for free speech was waging in the Commonwealth. The Melbourne  Herald  is to be commended for the stand it took then. I do not suppose that the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  would agree with the views expressed in the  Herald  in 1925 ; because he, and others like him, stand for the suppression of the liberty of the people under such legislation as the Crimes Act. On the 6th July, 1925, the following paragraph appeared in an editorial in the  Herald: - 
It was for the protection of these rights that the  Herald  was compelled to fight this case, for that  freedom  of criticism in matters of public interest, both political and social, artistic, and in every other way which, as the Chief Justice emphasized, is the basis of most of the political and social institutions in our country. 
I draw attention to the word " artistic," and .remind honorable senators of the censorship that exists in regard to the books that the public of Australia may read. Books which circulate freely in other countries have been removed from the shelves of the Parliamentary Library. A previous Minister for Trade and Customs suppressed  Redheap,  and recently the present Minister waged a wonderful fight in support of what he claimed to be the right of the Government to tell people what they may read. T do not admit that  Mr. [White,  or any other Minister for Trade and Customs, is my intellectual superior. But when he says : " Collings, you may read this book, 'but not that one," I challenge his authority. The article in the  Herald  went on to say - 
The outcome of this case means that so long as a man or a newspaper expresses what he honestly believes to be the truth, he need not fear the consequences. Neither courts nor juries shall take away, either from the press or from citizens, that great fundamental right of our liberty - the right of free speech and free criticism in matters of public interest. 
This bill seeks to take away that right. When it has been placed on the statutebook we shall be shackled intellectually, economically, socially and artistically, to such an extent as to be unworthy of the great race from which we sprang and the great destiny of Australia.- This great democracy in the southern hemisphere has not been .built up along these lines. The foundations of Australia's liberty were laid by men who were transported from .the Old Country for picking up a rabbit which a gamekeeper had shot and thrown over the fence, and boys who were banished for stealing a few buttons or other articles valued at a few pence. They refused to recognize the lord's right to the fish and the water and the furry animals in the woods. Time passed, and then came the Eureka Stockade. Those men at Ballarat who resisted injustice set an example to the world, and  even  to-day good Australians make pilgrimages to the spot, and raise their hats in reverence and thankfulness that men were willing to fight and die in order that others might enjoy a greater measure of liberty. I wish to see Australians not with less liberty, but with more. If the Government would rid its mind of the fear complex and realize that all wisdom will not die with us, it would remodel this bill to make it less vicious and less drastic. 

 Senator HARDY (New South Wales) [12.3S~. - 1 shall not speak at length at this stage, because the bill is essentially one for discussion in committee. Listening attentively to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  I could not but conclude that he had mistaken the title of the bill. It is "A bill, for an Act. to amend the Crimes Act, 1914-1932 ". 
In order to make it worse. 
The bill before the Senate has two broad divisions. First, it seeks to amend existing legislation relating to official secrets by empowering the Government to control information which, if given to a foreign power, might prove injurious to Australia. There has been no amendment of the legislation dealing with official secrets since 1914~. 
I recollect, even if the honorable senator does not, that a world war took place between 1914 and 1918. We have heard a good deal about freedom of speech. Indeed, it is a habit of the Opposition to accuse other people of attempting to interfere with the liberties of the people. .Whenever possible, it quotes Soviet Russia as an example of a well-governed country. 
Opposition senators should read the penal code in force in Soviet Russia. 
I shall not attempt that task. The Leader of the Opposition attempted to do so, but without success. As the Leader of the Opposition has said that this bill has been delibe rately designed to interfere with the freedom of the people I propose to compare it with the penal code in operation in Russia. Under the heading " Crimes Against the State " the following appears in the penal code of Russia - 
I am endeavouring to show by comparison with the penal codes of other countries, that there is nothing in this bill for any democratic Australian to fear. I have already pointed out that in the penal code of the Soviet any action - and the legal gentlemen in the Senate will inform us that the word " any " is capable of very wide interpretation - likely to undermine the established economic order, meets with the supreme measure of social defence, namely, death by shooting, or, if the court decides to extend a certain amount of leniency, banishment and confiscation of property. It is interesting to learn how harsh the penal code of the Union of 
Soviet Social Republics really is, because only in that way can we be brought to a realization of the moderate nature of the bill now before the Senate. Article 193 (10) of the Penal Code of the Soviets - and this might be of interest to  Senator Brown  who often refers to the Soviets in this House - reads as follows :  - (b)Failureto appear punctually, without adequate cause, on the part of any person performing or liable to military service . . . entails the maximum penalty of death by shooting or banishment and confiscation of property. 
I am pointing out how fortunate the honorable senator is to be in Australia. Instead of criticizing the Crimes Act he should congratulate the Government upon upholding the democratic principles for which he alleges the Australian Labour party stands. Again article 193 (13) provides that evasion of the obligation to perform military service on the pretext of religious or other convictions shall he punishable by death or banishment and confiscation of private property. We find that the publication of any information regarding the armed forces of the Soviet which ought to be kept secret, is also punishable by shooting and in a lesser de- gree by banishment and confiscation of property. Yet  Senator Collings  deplored the introduction of a. democratic measure such as the bill before the Senate. The honorable senator is adopting a. most unreasonable attitude. When the provisions of the Crimes Act are compared with the precautions which other nations have been forced to take, it will be seen that they are moderate indeed. 
The honorable senator appears to imagine that I am attacking him because of his advocacy of sovietism. Let us examine the precautions taken by Germany to protect its official secrets and to guard itself against white-anting by organizations classified as unlawful associations. The Hitler decree of the 26th May. 1933, was deliberately directed against Communist property in. Germany, and reads - 
In order permanently to deprive Communist endeavours of a traitorous nature of useful property, the national cabinet has enacted the following law,which is herewith promulgated: - 
1 ) The highest State officials or the authorities designated by them may confiscate for the benefit of the State, property and rights of the Communist party ofGermany and its auxiliary and subsidiary organizations, as well as property " which is used or intended to be used . for furthering Communist activities. 
We are endeavouring by this carefullydrafted and moderate legislation . to provide reasonable powers for dealing with organizations definitely out to white-ant our social structure; but the Australian Labour party, headed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  condemns it as being unjust and entirely repugnant to the democratic principles of this country. If the honorable senator finds white-ants in his home he immediately procures a pot of cyanide to eradicate them. All we ask in this bill is the right to preserve our political and economic structure, of which we, as senators, are guardians. It might be said that the Hitler decree is an attack upon the Communist party; but a further decree, dated the 14th July, 1933, provides for the confiscation of property of other public enemies. It reads - 
The provisions of the law of the 26th May, 1933. concerning the confiscation of Communist property, are to he applied to the property and rights of the German Social Democratic party and its auxiliary and collateral organizations, as well as to property and rights which are used or are intended to further Marxist or other movements which, according to determination by the Minister of the Interior, are hostile to the people and the State. 
Is there anything more embracing than that decree, which, after all, only gives to the Government power to wipe out these white-anting organizations. If we look at this matter reasonably, and without prejudice, and ask ourselves whether this amendment of the Crimes Act is sound, or whether it is foreign to the Australian conceptions of justice, the answer must be that the provisions of the bill are fundamentally and entirely just. The Italian code is equally as severe as the 
Hitler decree. I could cite, also, the American, and British codes to show that the proposals now before the Senate are in no sense extreme.  Senator Collings  says that he can see no good in the bill, but has he really studied it? Clause 6, relating to incitement to mutiny, merely gives the court power to impose a fine. Previously it had not that power, and could punish only by sentencing the convicted person to aterm of imprisonment. Clause 8 is a beneficial clause, which protects the individual from prosecution without the consent in writing of the Attorney-General. These are actual improvements to the Crimes Act, dictated by experience. Opposition to the bill is not justified in view of the experience and laws of other nations. It is not right to deny to the Government the right to uphold the political and economic system, under which we live against the machinations of unlawful associations, whose intentionis to destroy it. 
I realize that the bill before us is merely one to amend and add to the original Crimes Act, which I understand is being brought into line with the Official Secrets Act passed in the United Kingdom in 1920. Why this action has been so long delayed I do not know. Honorable senators on this side are not opposed to certain provisions in the bill; we recognize the right of a government, whether it be a democratic government or a dictatorship, to safeguard its own interests and its people. But some clauses in the bill are most reactionary. This legislation encroaches upon the freedom which is the inherited right of every Australian. It gives greater powers to the police, an organization which has a definite interest in launching prosecutions and bringing them to asuccessful issue. If undue authority is given to the police, we shall increase the danger to democracy and imperil the freedom of individual citizens. The bill also limits freedom of expression, and on that account it is reactionary. I am a believer in liberty of speech. I speak feelingly on this matter, because in the course of my life I have been punished in various countries, and put in jail for vigorously asserting my right to freedom of speech. Every Australian should hold  very dear this principle of being permitted to express his thoughts with perfect freedom, so long as those thoughts do not run counter to the social interests of the community. I make that condition because it is possible for a small section to convert freedom into licence. Instead of conserving : the freedom of the people this reactionary measure has a tendency to destroy this cherished possession. J contend that all actions with the object of limiting freedom of expression tend to destroy democracy. Australia has a democratic system of government which gives persons the right to vote for whom they desire and to put into office what party they desire. If honorable senators wish to preserve that democracy at a time when in other parts of the world democracies are falling and dictatorships are being raised, they must not take any steps leading towards government by dictators. All measures which tend to lessen the right of free expression bring nearer the day when dictatorships will be established. 
Admittedly there must be certain limitations of action. But the Labour party contends that acts of Parliament now on the statute-book are sufficient to meet the situation. Consequently there is no need for the Government to limit, further the right of persons to express their convictions. Legislation enacted by the States, and the existing Commonwealth Crimes Act, give governments a sufficient power to control those bodies at which this amending bill is directed. But there is another danger. In setting out to suppress one section of the community the Government is resorting to measures which may penalize undeservedly other sections.  Senator Hardy  in sententiously dilating upon the conditions in Russia, Italy and Germany, informed honorable senators that men who held views contrary to those of the powers that be in those countries were placed against a wall and shot. He cited the criminal codes of several countries and pointed out how fortunate we are not to bp living in them. I endorse his remarks whole-heartedly, and I think, we should be grateful that we are living in a free country like Australia. Because the Labour party recognizes our good fortune it is anxious to preserve the freedom we  now enjoy.  It does not follow that because a reactionary Russian regime took certain action to consolidate its position, we in Australia should follow that example! Because Italy, Russia or Germany adopts brutal methods, it is ridiculous to assert that Australia is given  carte blanche  further to limit the right of free expression. To my mind that is one of the most paltry arguments that could be adduced. In Russia, Germany and Italy revolutionary action led to the overthrow of democratic rule. Mussolini himself stated that he walked over the corpse of liberty, and Hitler said that democracy brought Germany to the verge of ruin. The  bolshevists  took charge of Russia at a time when a struggle for life and death was in progress, and there was no opportunity to hold an election, or set up democratic rule. Whether it be fascist or communist, a government which meets a revolutionary situation must take revolutionary action. If a civil war occurred in Australia various forces would align themselves one against each other; if the fascists were successful they would shoot the communists, and if the communists were successful they would find a way of getting rid of the fascists. 
I am endeavouring to show the falsity, stupidity and puerility of the arguments of the honorable  senator  He has a poor case indeed, if he has to introduce the subject of Russia merely because we have on occasions referred to certain conditions in that country, and it does not follow that we agree with everything done in Russia, and that we are desirous of establishing Soviets in Australia. When a person is fighting for the right of others to express themselves freely, and to publish their thoughts it does not necessarily mean that he endorses their views. I have perused a book  Freedom of Speech,  by Zechariah Chafee, Professor of Law at Harvard University, and it deals with the case of John Wilkes, a notorious character in America. He shows that this man's character was such as could not be defended, nor could his views be endorsed by the majority of Americans. Wilkes incurred the antagonism of the Government of the United States of America, but 
Chafee points out that because his views were at variance with the general consensus of opinion, it was not right that he should have been denied freedom of expression. Because I advocate that a man be given the right to voice his ideas, it does not imply that I endorse those ideas. 1, for one, do not endorse everything that the Soviets have done. I have sought a good deal of information about the fascist government of Italy, but it does not follow that I believe in Mussolini's theories and in fascism generally. 
Clause 6 refers to " publishing " incitements " likely to " lead to the seduction of a member of the King's forces from his duty or allegiance. The Postmaster-General knows what is meant by publishing. Does not that clause prevent freedom of expression? If I am not allowed to publish certain matters, then my freedom of expression is curtailed. 
I maintain that the Government has the power now to deal with individuals who break the law, but. in this measure the Government is seeking much wider authority. Part of the clause reads - 1 a. Any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper containing any matter of such a nature as to. or as to be likely to - (ft) seduce any person serving in the King's forces from his duty and allegiance. 
The word " knowingly " has been left out, and the words "likely to" have been added. The Labour party does not stand foi1 mutiny or for permitting the seduction and the words "likely to" have been, of any man from the duty he owes to his country, but the proposed amendments in this bill will give to judges, who, I make bold to say, may be biased, power to do a grievous wrong to a person for expressing his sincere beliefs. 
I am not a lawyer, but I have sufficient common sense to be careful when answering a leading question of that nature. I say, emphatically, that the Labour movement will never approve of action by any individual having for its objective the seducing of any citizen from allegiance to his country. This statement, I hope, is definite enough. 
I have just had placed in my hands a copy of the Melbourne  Herald,  of the 6th July, 1925, containing some comments of the Chief Justice with reference to a case that was then attracting considerable attention. 
It may have been. At the moment I am unable to say. This is what the Chief Justice said on that occasion - 
In matters of public interest not only the press, but every citizen lias a right to say what he thinks, no matter how injurious it may be to the other man who is affected by it. He has a perfect right to do this, and in many cases, if he is a man of courage, he ought to deal with it as a duty in addition to a right. 
I am not sure, but the comments of the Chief Justice have an important bearing on the principle of free expression in the community. 
We wish to discuss the issues involved in this bill without heat, and are endeavouring to establish a case for liberalization of the bill, but I do not anticipate that we shall succeed because Government supporters are prejudiced in their outlook. Professor Chafee says - 
The American Sedition Act 1798, which President Wilson declares to have "cut perilously near the root of freedom of speech and of the press ", entrusted criminality to the jury, and admitted truth as a defence. On the other hand, freedom of speech might exist without these two technical safeguards. The essential question is not, who is judge of the criminality of an utterance, but what is the test of its criminality. 
I intend to deal with that later, when discussing the action of the Government in preventing the publication,  Soviets of To-day  from being sent through the post. 
Does the bill contain any provisions dealing with freedom of speech? 
Any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, hand-bill, poster or newspaper containing any matter of such a nature as to, or as to be likely to . . . " incite " a member of the defence forces to commit an act of mutiny ' shall be guilty of an indictable offence. Mark the words " likely to ". ' 
The common law and the Sedition Act of 1798 made the test blame of the Government and its officials, because to bring them into disrepute tended to overthrow the State. The real issue in every free-speech controversy is this - whether the State can punish all words which have some tendency, however remote, to bring about acts in violation of law, or only words which directly incite to acts in  violation  of law. 
Any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper  containing  any matter of such a nature as to, or as to be likely to -  (a)  seduce liny person serving in the King's forces from his duty or allegiance shall be guilty of an offence and be punishable. Honorable senators will note a marked distinction between the proposal in the bill and the existing law. Who is to judge whether statements contained in any publication are " likely " to seduce any person from his allegiance? Professor Chafee states further - 
If  words do not become criminal until they have "an immediate tendency to produce a breach of the peace ", there is no need for a law of sedition, since the ordinary standards of criminal solicitation and attempt apply. Under those standards the words must bring the speaker's unlawful intention reasonably near to success. Such a limited power to punish utterances rarely satisfies the zealous in times of excitement like a war. They realize that all condemnation of the war or of conscription may conceivably lead to active resistance or insubordination. Is it not better to kill the serpent in the egg? 
That is what this Government says - 
AH writings that have even a remote tendency to hinder the war must be suppressed. 
According to the Assistant Minister and Government supporters, all written statements contained in publications that may have even a remote tendency to affect the Government are to be suppressed - 
Such has always been the argument of the opponents of free speech. And the most powerful weapon in their hands, since the abolition of the censorship, is this doctrine of indirect causation- 
This is the doctrine that will be applied under the law as altered by the bill - under which words can be punished for a supposed bad tendency long before there is any probability that they will break out into unlawful acts. Closely related to it is the doctrine of constructive intent  which  regards the intent of the defendant to cause violence as immaterial so long as he intended to write the words, or else presumes the violent intent from the bad tendency of the words on the ground that a man is presumed to intend the consequences of his acts. 
There is a possibility that this new law will be invoked in such a way as to enable a judge or jury to declare that a particular statement in a publication is " likely " to incite to mutiny, thus rendering the writer or publisher liable to be punished. Does the Assistant Minister suggest that it is right to place such power in the hands of a judge or jury? 
Some time ago I addressed to the PostmasterGeneral a question with regard to the refusal by the Postal Department to transmit through the post copies of a Sydney publication,  The Soviets of Today.  I received a copy of this newspaper through the post, and found nothing objectionable in it. 
The same desire to nip revolution in the bud was shown by the Scotch judges, who secured the conviction of Muir and Palmer for advocating reform of the  rotten  boroughs which chose the House of Commons, and the extension of the franchise, sentences of  transportation :  for seven and fourteen years being imposed. 
In the light of such prosecutions it is plain that the most vital indication that the popular definition of liberty of the press, unpunishable criticism of officials and laws, has become a reality, is the disappearance of these doctrines of bad tendency and presumptive intent. In Great Britain they lingered until liberalism triumphed in 1832, but in this country they disappeared with the adoption of the free speech clauses. The revival of those doctrines is a sure symptom of an attack upon the liberty of the' press. 
Unfortunately for the party on this side of the chamber,  the  liberty of the press is restricted to one section of the press.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  asked the meaning of freedom of speech. Professor Chafee gives the following definition - 
The true meaning of freedom of speech seems to bc this. One of the most important purposes of society and government is the discovery and spread of truth on subjects of general concern. This is possible only through absolutely unlimited discussion, for, as Bagehot points out, once force is thrown into the argument, it becomes a matter of chance whether it is thrown on the false side or the true, and truth loses all its natural advantage in the contest. Nevertheless, there are other purposes of government, such as order, the training of the young, protection against external aggression. Unlimited discussion sometimes interferes with these purposes, which must then be  balanced  against freedom of speech, but freedom of speech ought to weigh very heavily in the scale. 
This legislation does not indicate that the Government is weighing freedom of speech heavily in the scale.  
The principle on which speech is classified as lawful or unlawful involves the balancing against each other of two very important social interests, in public safety and in the search for truth. 
Supporters of the Government will probably contend that, in the interests of public safety, a publisher of statements to which exception is taken should he gaoled, whether or not he is aware of everything that is published in a newspaper bearing his name. The quotation continues - 
Every reasonable attempt should be made to maintain both interests unimpaired, and the great interest in free speech should be sacrificed only when the interest in public safety is really imperilled, and not, as most men believe, when it is barely conceivable that it may be slightly affected. In war time, therefore, speech should be unrestricted by the censorship or by punishment, unless it is clearly liable to cause direct and dangerous interference with the conduct of the war. Thus our problem of locating the boundary line of free speech is solved. It is fixed close to the point where words will give rise to unlawful acts. 
The writer was dealing with free expressions in war time. Would  Senator Brennan  say that in times of peace that article would be liable to cause dangerous interference with the government of this country? The legislative proposals of the Government as set out in this bill, are contrary to the principles of orderly government for which this party stands, and therefore I hope that the measure will be modified and made less drastic. Clause 13 seeks to amend section 82 of the principal act  by adding the following sub-section - 
Where it appears to a Superintendent of Police that the case is one of great emergency, and that in the interests of the Commonwealth, immediate action is necessary, lie may, by written order under his hand, give to any constable the same authority as may be given by the warrant of a Justice of the Peace under this section. 
Have circumstances arisen since the original legislation was passed to justify giving such power to any member of the police force ? Unfortunately, in some police forces promotion is dependent on the number of convictions for which an officer is responsible. I see danger in vesting too much power in any police officer. There should be some good reason for altering the law to give greater powers to the police. In ordinary circumstances a Justice of the Peace would have to be notified, and information laid against the accused person, and witnesses would be subject to cross-examination ; but under this bill extensive powers are to be given to the police without any of those safeguards. 
Clause 5 deals with indeterminate sentences. The Minister who moved the second reading told us that this provision had been inserted at the request of certain judges. It is not right that after a man  has been convicted and has served his sentence he should be committed to a reformatory, for a further term. I have always understood that a man who has served his sentence is deemed to have expiated . his offence, and thereafter is regarded as a free man. Under this bill that will not be so. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the last preceding sub-section, where a person apparently of the age of seventeen years or upwards is convicted of an indictable offence against any law of the Commonwealth (whether he has been previously convicted of any offence or not) the court before which he is convicted may, if it thinks fit, having regard to the antecedents, character, associates, age, health or mental condition of the person convicted, the nature of the offence or any special circumstances of the case - 
direct, as part of his sentence, that, on the expiration of the term of imprisonment then imposed on him, he be detained during the GovernorGeneral's pleasure in a reformatory prison . . . 
He may be a first offender, whohas been inveigled into some unlawful association because of his enthusiasm for reform. Every youth who is fired with a zeal for reform hopes to turn the world upside down. Many of us have passed through that stage. In my early days I imagined that the world's economic troubles could easily be removed if only the people heard the truth. I thought that we had but to say to the people- 
Rise like lions from your slumbers, 
Rise in unvanquishable numbers, 
Shake your chains to earth like dew 
Which in sleep has fallen on yon; 
Ye are many, they are few. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
Despite the eloquence of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I intend to support the bill. It does not contain anything which should frighten any decent citizen, nor is there anything in it to interfere with the proper exercise of liberty of speech or of the right of a publisher to publish reasonable comment. On the other hand, it does seek to restrict those who, in a spirit of licence rather than of liberty, seek not only to suborn the members of our military forces but also to  undermine the thought of the community. There is no man more despicable or dastardly in any community than the seditionist or the suborner. I welcome this amendment of the Crimes Act as a step towards eradicating the cancerous growth of Communism which, unfortunately, is spreading in Australia. Generally I support the bill, which will at least eliminate a number of very undesirable people. There are, however, two clauses in this bill which, I suggest to the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan),  might be slightly altered.' It is proposed by clause 6 to amend the original act so as to provide for a monetary penalty suitable for application to a corporate body. Obviously, it is impossible to imprison a. corporate body, and yet imprisonment is the only penalty prescribed in the act. But I should like to see the amendment drafted to provide that a corporate body guilty of an offence against the act shall be punished by the imposition of a fine, and that an individual offender shall be imprisoned without the option of a fine. Many enthusiasts are always willing to pass the hat round and raise a substantial sum for the payment of such fines, and there are a number of misguided people in the Commonwealth who always imagine that they should be on the side of the so-called " under-dog." The result is that the delinquent, who often has not got 2s. to rattle on a tombstone, actually gets off scot-free. T draw the attention of the Assistant -Minister to that clause, and suggest that the penalty be altered to imprisonment, in the case of an individual, without the option of a fine. 
Clause S provides that prosecutions shall not be commenced without the written authority of the Attorney-General or some other person authorized by him. I should like to see incorporated in the bill an amendment making it mandatory for the Attorney-General to take action in cases of sedition or subornation of the forces either in time of peace or war. 
The  time might arise in Australia, at a critical moment, when a weak-kneed Attorney-General will not take action, and the law will become a dead letter. The working of the clause should be altered to provide that it shall he compulsory for the Attorney-General to prosecute a charge of sedition or subornation in time of peace or war. We do not want  seditionists  or  subornists  in Australia. We enjoy a freedom denied to the nationals of many other countries, and there is no reason why these pests should he allowed to flourish here. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Payne)  adjourned. 
[3.38].- I move- 
T1 ut. the Senate at its rising adjourn till  Tuesday,  22nd October, at 3 p.m. 
Once again the Senate has disposed of all the business passed by another place, and it is proposed to adjourn until further legislation is available for consideration. I somewhat resent the suggestion which appears in the press from time to time that, because the Senate does not sit so long or so frequently as another place, it does not do .so much work. It must be remembered that no law can be placed upon the statute-hook unless it has rereceived the approval of this chamber. So far as the actual law-making goes, this chamber must do the same amount of work as the House of Representatives, because it has to pass an equal number of bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to inform honorable senators that, in response to a request made by  Senator Foll  yesterday, a copy of the report by  Mr. L.  J. Rogers, Commonwealth fuel adviser, on the grain alcohol industry in Australia, has been placed on the table of the Library. 
[3.41]. - Yesterday  Senator Foll  asked me if I would make available to honorable senators a copy of the statement made by the Italian delegate to the League of Nations giving reasons for the action Italy is taking in Abyssinia, together with the reply of the Abyssinian delegate. The Government  has received only one copy of the report of the League Assembly's proceedings, and it is proposed to lay that copy on the table of the Library. The Printing Committee can then decide whether the report should be printed in whole or in part. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Semite adjourned at. 3.42 p.m. 
Has the PostmasterGeneral received . a circular letter which I understand has been forwarded to all members of the Senate, dealing with tho suppression of a talk by a plainspeaking gentleman from Station 2SM? 
I do not know. He states that under instructions from the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Archdale Parkhill)  to the Postmaster-General he was prevented from broadcasting his talk from Station 2SM. 
The Postmaster-General takes his instructions, not from individual Ministers, but from Cabinet. I have seen the circular letter to which the honorable senator has referred, and concerning it all I need say is that if threats are issued against members of either branch of this legislature official cognizance should be taken of them by the respective Houses in order to protect the privileges of their members. As honorable senators are probably aware, there is a system of censorship over matter broadcast from all stations. The script is submitted to the censors who excise from it such portions as they think may be offensive to any section of the community. 
Has the Leader of the Senate read an article which appeared in the Melbourne newspapers a few days ago to the effect that Cabinet wasconsidering a proposal to leasel00,000 sqitare miles of land in the Northern Territory to a company, the names of the members of which appear to be those of existing land-holders? If so, can he say if the project, theterms of which include a loan from the Commonwealth of £1,000,000 for the erection of meat works and construction of roads, railways and shipping facilities, is new, or is it the scheme which was discussed by the Government two or three years ago? 
I ask the Leader of the Government to state definitely whether or not the Government is negotiating with a company which has lately benefited by much propaganda in the press to the effect that its proposal to develop . the Northern Territory will be aided by a Government loan of £1,000,000, and the granting of special consideration by the Commonwealth Government. The answer supplied to  Senator Gibson  does not satisfy me. Will the Leader of the Government state definitely whether or not such negotiations are 'being conducted by the Government? 
'Has the Leader of the Senate any further information with regard to my request that copies of statements made by the Italian and Abyssinian delegates to the League of Nations should be made available to honorable senators ? 
 by leave  - Since I left Canberra on the 10th instant I have learned the terms of a resolution, announced by  Dr. Earle  Page as having been passed at a meeting of the Country party held on that date in this building, approving the appointment of a Leader of the Country party in the Senate.  Dr. Earle  Page sent me a special invitation to attend that meeting. I replied stating that my views on the subject 'had been clearly expressed in the Senate and that, as I had nothing to add to them, I did not intend to attend the meeting. I wish to refer to the resolution only so far as it affects myself and my position as an elected senator representing my own State and pledged to my electors to adopt a certain line of policy in the Senate with which my acceptance of a party leader here would conflict. I have no real differences with the Country party except on this major question of the alteration of the status of Country party senators, by the new appointment of a Country party leader in this chamber. 
For the last ten years Country party senators from the various States have sat here free to carry out their duties to their States without the measure of party control and guidance which the appointment of a leader imposes. The Senate is a House of review designed to protect the interests of the smaller States. We in Western Australia look on this branch of the legislature as our one stronghold. It is the only place where, under the Constitution, we have an equal voice with any other State. It is, in truth, the only bulwark of the weaker States. The decision to impose a party leader and party methods in this States' chamber is entirely repugnant to my conception of the Senate under the Constitution. I do not come 2,500 miles from Western Australia to be told by a party leader here what to do. I therefore am unable to allow the Federal Country party either to impose its will on me or to place me in party leading reins. I regard its action as a barefaced attempt to destroy the rights of free parliamentary speech and action which are cardinal principles of representative government. It is another step towards stifling the voice and influence of the smaller States in the National Parliament. 
There are good reasons why the sudden and reckless, and, so far as I know, illconsidered change of policy by the Federal Country party, should be particularly unacceptable to-day to senators from South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania. Never have those States felt a keener sense of grievance against the Commonwealth than they feel to-day. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. lynch)  .-When the honorable senator asked for leave to make a statement, it was open to any other honorable senator to refuse that leave. 
But in discussing the relationship of the six States to the Commonwealth, the honorable senator is abusing the privilege that has been granted to him. I ask him to confine his remarks to the affairs of the Country party, and not to indulge in a lengthy dissertation on. other subjects. 
-I ask the honorable senator to confine himself to the domestic affairs of the Country party. 
Unless the honorable senator confines his remarks to matters relating to the appointment of a leader of the Country party in the Senate, I shall have to ask him to resume his seat. 
As a candidate for the Senate, I was pledged to the primary producers'' association and the Country party organization of Western Australia, as well as to the electors, to place the interests of Western Australia before any other consideration in a chamber specially designed for the protection of the weaker States. That pledge, and the political beliefs of a lifetime, prevent my joining the quartette of Country party senators who have voluntarily accepted a party leader in a non-party house of review established to protect State rights. For 25 years I have been a representative of my native State in the Parliaments of Western Australia and the Commonwealth. I will accept no leader and no political dictation in regard to my duties as an elected representative of Western Australia in the Senate. I have therefore tendered to  Dr. Earle  Page my resignation as a member of the Federal Country party. In future, I shall sit in the Senate as a Western Australian Country party senator, bound only by the principles of the Country party platform of that State and my pledges to the electors. No party leader in the Senate shall stand between me and my duty to Western Australia; no other honorable senator shall profess to express my views. I shall speak for myself as a representative of my State, without party domination or interference. I stand for that complete freedom of parliamentary speech and action which is the foundation of our civic liberties. 
As incorrect statements in relation to my resignation from the Country party have appeared in certain newspapers, I now make it clear that I gave only one carefully prepared statement to the press for publication. That statement appeared in the Melbourne  Argus  and  Age  and the  Sydney Morning Herald.  To the extent that other reports differ from it, T. accept no responsibility for them. It is particularly unfortunate that unauthorized statements which have been attributed to me in some other newspapers, should refer to  Dr. Earle  Page and  Mr. Paterson.  I have the highest regard and esteem for those gentlemen, and did not make the statement about them which has been attributed to me. 

 . --by leave - a few days ago,  Senator Johnston  explained his position in relation to the appointment of a leader of the Country party in the Senate. A day or two later he gave an explanation of that explanation. To-day he has attempted to explain his explanation of his first explanation. If the serial continues much longer, much valuable time of the Senate will be taken up. Three honorable senators of the Country party have stated that  Senator Johnston  issued a circular convening the meeting at which the party elected a leader. 
In order to prevent the continuation of this serial, and to protect those honorable senators whose honour has been impugned by  Senator Johnston,  a select committee should be appointed to go into the whole subject, and thereby save the time of the Senate. 
In view of the fact that the London-Singapore section of the air service to Australia has been duplicated, can the Postmaster-General say when the remaining section of the service, Singapore to Australia, is likely to be duplicated? 
I understand that negotiations on this matter are now being conducted by the Comptroller of Civil Aviation, 'but until I hear further from that source, I cannot enlighten the honorable senator. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Broadcasting Commission to alter the new wave lengths in such a way as to give to listeners who do not possess modern receivers a better service (such as was enjoyed by them before the alteration)? 
The new wave-length plan was designed and brought into force for the 'benefit of listeners in general and it would indeed be a retrograde step to endeavour to design a system on the basis of utilizing obsolete receiving apparatus. A limited number of wave-lengths is available for the whole of the Commonwealth, and if progress is to be achieved it is quite impossible to maintain the conditions which prevailed when a much smaller number of broadcasting stations was in service. The dominating factor in the post office plan of wave-length allocations is the interest of listeners throughout the Commonwealth. The plan could not be modified in the direction suggested without sacrificing vital benefits to the general body of listeners. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Ministerbeen drawn to an article in the Melbourne  Argus  of the 10th October stating that an amendment of the Broadcasting Commission Act is shortly to be submitted to Parliament so that  Mr. C.  J. Moses, at present an announcer of the staff of the Victorian Broadcasting Station, may be appointed as a kind of liaison officer between the  Chairman  of the Commission and the various State managers? 
What are the qualifications of  Mr. Moses  for any such high executive position ? 
By whomwas he recommended? 
Has the position of full-time  Chairman  yet been offered to  Mr. Cleary  at a fitting salary; if not, why not? 
Will the qualifications of the various State managers for the position said to have been offered to  Mr. Moses  be properly and fairly considered before any such appointment is made? 
Will Parliament be consulted as to the situation before any appointments, acting or otherwise, are made either of  Mr. Moses  or  Mr. Cleary? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
Yes. 2 and 3. If the Broadcasting Commission should make such an appointment, it is reasonable to assume that it will be satisfied with the qualifications of the officer selected. It is the function of the Commission to make appointments to its staff. 
The  Chairman  is appointed under the Australian Broadcasting Commission Act which makes no reference to the time which he shall devote to the business of the Commission. The salary was fixed by Parliament and so far there is no intention to seek an amendment of the act. 
It is reasonable to assume that the Commission would take into consideration the qualifications of the various State managers for any of the higher positions needing to be filled. 
There is no need to consult Parliament, as the Commission is functioning within the terms of the act. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is he able to say when the new cable to Tasmania will be completed? 
It is hoped that the service which will be provided by the completion of the Tasmanian cable will be available for commercial traffic about March or April next year. 
. -I move - 
That Statutory Rules 1935, No. 29 (Amendments' of the Dried Fruits Export Control Regulations), be disallowed. 
Although I am speaking in this matter on behalf of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, of which I am chairman, I have put this motion on the noticepaper in my own name simply for the purpose of avoiding delay. The time in which the motion could be submitted was limited and there was a danger that if a report were furnished in the ordinary way to conform with Standing Order No. 36(a) the right of the Senate to object to this regulation might lapse. The committee is unanimous in its view of Statutory Rule No. 29. The committee does not approach this subject from the standpoint of policy; that is not a matter which concerns it. The committee has to decide whether Statutory Rule 29 is in accordance with the law, and as I indicated, it is unanimously of the opinion that it is illegal. When the committee was appointed no provision was made in the Standing Orders as to its duties. The Standing Orders merely provide that all regulations and ordinances laid on the table of the Senate shall stand referred to such committee for consideration, and, if necessary, for report thereon. If action is necessary, following a report of the committee, such action shall be taken in the Senate on motion after notice. The Select Committee which reported on the Standing Committees system, under which this committee came into existence, recommended that the committee should scrutinize regulations to ascertain. - 
That they are in accord with the statute. 
That they do not trespass unduly on the personal rights and liberties. 
That they do not unduly make the right and liberties of the citizens dependent upon administrative and not upon judicial decisions'.. 
That they are concerned with the administrative detail and do not amount to substantive legislation which should be a matter for parliamentary enactment. 
It is clear that this regulation conflicts clearly with the first paragraph, as it is not in accordance with the statute. It also, probably, conflicts with the fourth paragraph in that it is not concerned with administrative detail, and amounts to substantive legislation which should be a matter for parliamentary enactment. Section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act reads - 
Where an act confers power to make regulations, all regulations made accordingly shall, unless the contrary intention appears - 
he notified in the  Gazette; 
take effect from the date of notification; or from  a  later date specified in the regulations: 
be laid before each House of the Parliament within, fifteen sitting days of that House after the making of the regulations. 
But if either House of the Parliament passes a resolution of which notice has been given at any time within fifteen sitting days after such regulations have been laid before such House disallowing any regulation such regulation shall thereupon cease to have effect. 
That section was interpreted recently in the case of the  Broadcasting Company of Australia- Proprietary Limited and others v. the Commonwealth,  52 C.L.R. 52. A majority decision was given by the Chief Justice,  Mr. Justice  Evatt and  Mr. Justice  McTiernan, who said : " No one disputes that the mere fact that a statute of the Commonwealth Parliament operates retrospectively is insufficient to invalidate it". Retrospective legislation is clearly within the competence of the Parliament, but the majority decision of the High Court laid it down quite definitely that retrospective regulations are not within the competence of the administration unless power to make them is specifically granted, which has not been done in this case. In other words, Parliament may, if it chooses, l&gt;ass retrospective legislation, hut the administration is not at liberty to frame retrospective regulations. Statutory Rule  No.  29 is a particularly long dated case, in that the regulations are to be . made retrospective for nine years. I have already said that this is not a matter of policy, but in a sense one of technicality. I admit that this regulation is not nearly so flagrant as that on which the High Court made its pronouncement. In that case there was a contract between the Postmaster-General's Department and a number of broadcasting companies, setting out certain terms between the two parties. Subsequently the broadcasting company entered into an agreement under which it sold or assigned to the Dominion Broadcasting Proprietary Limited all licence-fees and revenue received from broadcasting operations between certain dates. The PostmasterGeneral's Department came in subsequently, and tried to increase the amount it was entitled to withhold, which meant that the actual financial rights under the contract were detrimentally affected. The case dealt with by the High Court was a particularly bad one, but ethieally the statutoryrule now before the Senate is not bad. It seeks to legalize payments to officials by the Dried Fruits Export Control Board, dating back, in some instances to 1926. No doubt, these payments have already been made and as such I have no objection to them. They were proper payments, I expect, but they cannot he legalized by a regulation of this kind. The only way in which they can be validated is by legislative action. 
Yes. It lays down that the amendments effected by the preceding regulation shall be deemed to have taken effect on the 28th day of April, 1926, and the High Court held, in effect, that a provision of the kind was  ultra vires,  not only in respect of the past, but also in respect of the future. This matter came before the notice of the committee only a week ago, and, through the secretary, application was made to the Department of Commerce to ascertain the reason for the regulation. The committee desired more information upon the general purport of the regulation, particularly as to why it was necessary to make the amendment retrospective to the year 1926, and as to whether such provision was not invalid. The Department of Commerce offered the following explanation, which I shall give to the Senate, because it indicates that the matter in itself, apart from its legal aspect, is not of great importance :  - 
Some considerable time ago the Commonwealth Auditor in London questioned the authority of the Dried Fruits Board to pay the Fumigation Officer and a messenger and assistant as ' Officers " of the board when actually they were but " servants " of the board. 
The Commonwealth Auditor-General upheld the view of his London officer and accordingly in order to validate payments which had then been made to these employees the amending Statutory Rule (No. 29 of 1935) was promulgated. 
Advantage also was taken of the opportunity to incorporate therein the newly-created position of Economic Advisor and to slightly amend the classification scale of some of the minor positions on the staff of the board. 
It is, however, pointed out that these amendments do not provide for the payment of increased salaries to any of the board's employees and that they merely legalize certain payments made in London which had been questioned by the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth as being outside the scope of the regulations (Statutory Rule No. 55of 1926) as they then stood. 
In reply to the question regarding the legality of the regulation, the secretary wrote - 
This is not a matter upon which the department might properly venture an opinion, and it would appear to be more appropriate ii the legality of the regulations are in doubt, for this question to be referred to the law officers of the Crown. 
This, then, is purely a matter of legalizing the payment of sums of money made in the past to certain officials who earned them and were entitled to receive them; hut the procedure adopted, the committee maintains, does not validate the payments at all, and, in view of the judgment which I quoted, the regulation is palpably invalid. In my opinion, too, it is not desirable that the administration should have power to make retrospective enactments affecting expenditure so far back as ten years, or it might be, 20 or 30 years. I am not a supporter of retrospective legislation by this chamber, but the danger of retrospective action becomes greater if it may be taken by any branch of the administration. The Acts Interpretation Act specifically lays down that regulations shall come into force only from the time that they appear in the  Gazette,  or from a later date. 
In fact the regulation goes hack over a number of different administrations. I am quite prepared to admit that this procedure has been followed inadvertently, but the mistake is so obvious that I cannot imagine that the regulation can be defended on any ground. It is eminently desirable that the Senate should act in circumstances such as these, for the regulation infringes on the right of the general public, although it has not detrimentally affected any specific person. If it had done so, the legality of the regulation might have been tested in the courts, but where no particular person is detrimentally affected it devolves upon Parliament to object to regulations of this kind - which are detrimental to the interests of the puhlic generally, in order that they may be safeguarded. I hope that I am not oversanguine in anticipating that the Government will agree that the regulation should be disallowed. I shall be interested to hear any defence that may be offered on its behalf. Only this year the matter was decided in the court by a majority decision of three judges, and the fourth judge,  Mr. Justice  Rich, although he delivered a separate judgment, -was of substantially the same opinion as the majority. 
HUGHES. - A payment can onlybe legalized by legal means. According to the Acts Interpretation Act, and especially in view of the High Court's decision, the regulation is invalid. The committee for which I speak, was appointed for the purpose of seeing that regulations of this kind which conflict with the law are not allowed to stand, and there is proper provision, of which the committee has taken advantage, for an objection to be lodged to such within a specified period. I hope that the Government will realize that if the work of this committee, which is most laborious, involving as it does a great deal of attention to detail, with very little result to show, is to be disregarded in such a palpable case of invalidity as the present one, it is hardly worth while for the committee to waste its time on the work which it is doing for the benefit of the general community, and which is plainly within the terms of the powers it was meant to exercise. Whether or not the Government agrees I again emphasize that all members of the committee are unanimously of the opinion that the regulation is invalid and should be disallowed. The duty of the committee appears to me to be perfectly clear, and it is on its behalf that I move for the disallowance of the regulation. 
[3.52]. - I do not intend to deal with the merits or demerits of the particular regulation, the disallowance of which has been moved by  Senator DuncanHughes.  I shall leave that aspect of the matter to my colleague,  Senator Brennan,  who represents the Minister for Commerce. I rise to draw attention to the extraordinary procedure that has been adopted in connexion with practically the first report received from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.But this is the first report which calls for action and I think we should be extremely careful, when establishing new procedure, to see that the rights of the Senate are safeguarded. Two things have been done in connexion with Senate procedure which, I venture to say, have been of the greatest convenience to senators and also have safeguarded the privileges and rights of this chamber. I refer to the insertion in the Senate Standing Orders of Standing Order No. 66a which reads - 
The following business shall be placed on the Notice Paper as " Business of the Senate ", and shall take precedence of Government and general business for the day on which it is sot down for consideration. 
Then it goes on to provide, that, among other things, a motion for the disallowance of a regulation or ordinance shall take precedence. That is a procedure which, I venture to say, has no parallel in many houses of Parliament, and it is one that should not be misused. Tha other Standing Order to which I invite  attention is 119,. and reads - 
A motion disallowing a regulation shall take precedence of Government and general business. 
Obviously, these Standing Orders were intended to deal with certain classes of regulations and ordinances. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. Their insertion gave the Senate a control, which it had not possessed previously, over acts of administration. It may be argued that the exercise of thispower in respect of a particular regulation, such as the kind mentioned by  Senator 'Sampson,  comes within the scope of the committee. But my objection is that the motion is a dual one; it is a private motion for disallowance, hut it is also, in the words of the mover, the opinion of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I take exception to that. If the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has a report to make to the Senate, that, report should be submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Standing Orders and in no other way. Standing Order 36a deals with the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and provides in paragraph 4 - 
All regulations and ordinances laid on the table of the Senate shall stand referred to such committee for consideration and, if necessary, report thereon. Any action necessary, arising from a report of the committee shall be taken in the Senate on motion after notice. 
If we are to hear from that committee, that is the procedure which it should follow. The Standing Orders do not authorize any member of that committee, to take action, on notice of motion, for the disallowance of regulations. I therefore ask the Senate to disregard the statement of the mover of the motion that, in this matter,he is acting on the authority and with the approval of the committee, because it has not power so to authorize him. In appointing the Regulations and Ordinances Committee the Senate said, in effect, to that body - " We ask you to consider all regulations and ordinances to see if any contain provisions to which exception should be taken, and if so, to report that fact to the Senate. The Senate is the master of its own business and will then decide what shall be done." That was the procedure which the committee should have adopted. If now we accept the motion submitted by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  we shall be creating a precedent which may prove to be extremely dangerous. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.As the honorable senator has said, the Standing Orders of the Senate fix a time limit for disallowance of regulations or ordinances. For that reason an honorable senator may think that action should, at this stage, be taken to disallow the regulation to which objection is taken. But the mover of the motion gave us to understand that he was taking this action at the request and on behalf of the committee. 
That is so, and that, I repeat, is not the correct procedure. If  Senator DuncanHughes,  or any other honorable senator, wishes to take action to disallow a regulation or ordinance, the Standing' Orders prescribe the course to be followed. A motion such as this may not be made on behalf of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. The procedure for the disallowance of regulations or ordinances is clearly set out in our Standing Orders. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The correct procedure is for the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to make its report to the Senate. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.- If the committee took that view it could recommend accordingly. Obviously, it is not competent for any honorable senator to move for the disallowance of a regulation at the direction or request of the committee, but he may take such action on his own initiative as a member of the Senate. My principal reason for rising was to express the hope that, in future, the Regulations and Ordinances Committee will not follow the procedure adopted in connexion with this matter now before the Senate, and to ask honorable senators that, whatever may be their attitude to the subject-matter of the motion, not to 'accept it in its present form, thus establishing an undesirable, and possibly dangerous, precedent. I do not know what steps the committee took to inform its collective mind on the merits of the regulation, but I assume that it summoned certain officials to attend before it. I think  Senator Duncan-Hughes  mentioned that the committee discussed the regulation with the secretary of the Department of Commerce. It might happen that on some future occasion the committee, while not being fully informedabout a regulation, will reach a certain decision, and, because of that decision, every member of the committee will feel himself bound to support a motion made in the Senate. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No, because we must assume that a report is made with the full knowledge of all the circumstances and it would be discussed in the light of that knowledge. Certain aspects of a regulation which were not known to the committee might then be revealed and senators would not feel in duty 'bound to support the recommendation of the committee. In the present instance  Senator Duncan-Hughes  might reasonably put it to fellow members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee that, as he had moved this motion at their request, he was entitled to receive their support in the Senate. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE The procedure adopted is undesirable.I hope that it will not be followed in future. 
I am in complete agreement with the remarks of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  Honorable senators should endeavour to visualize the position which might arise if we accepted the motion in its present form. There is a deal of difference between the action taken by  Senator DuncanHughes  this afternoon and a motion to disallow, following the presentation of a formal report from the committee. If we recognize the right of any committee of the Senate to move that certain legislation, whether made by regulation or ordinance, should be disallowed, we shall, in effect, be acknowledging that r.he committee is superior to Parliament. 1 could never accept that position. If  i  his regulation were in terms similar to other regulations that have been made in recent years, concerning which a great deal of bitterness was engendered, not perhaps in this chamber so much as in the House of Representatives, what would have been the position if an honorable senator, in his capacity as a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, had moved for its disallowance? The correct procedure for the committee is to present its formal report for the consideration of the Senate. To ask us to disallow a regulation merely because the Regulations and Ordinances Committee thinks it should be disallowed is to take away from this branch of the legislature authority which we should guard very jealously. 
I am in entire accord with the observations of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  as to the procedure, which has been adopted by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. He has correctly stated the position. A dangerous precedent would be established if this motion were carried. I pay a tribute to the committee for the way in which it has barred out a. thankless task. 

 Senator Duncan-Hughes said that, if the regulation detrimentally affected any individual it could be, and doubtless would be, attacked in the courts. That may be so in a technical sense; but the fact remains that no person has been detrimentally affected by it. The regulation came into force in March, .1932, as an amendment of Statutory Rule No. 55 of 1926. Section 1 2 of the Dried Fruits Export Control Act provides that the salaries and conditions of employment of officers appointed under that act shall be as prescribed. In 1932 an officer of the Auditor-General's Department in London questioned the correctness of certain payments, and expressed the view that a distinction should be drawn between persons who were officers of the Dried Fruits Board and others who were its servants. He thought that the man in charge of the Fumigation branch, and another classed as a messenger and assistant, would more correctly be designated as servants than as officers, because they occupied relatively minor positions in London. As the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor concurred in that view doubt existed as to whether the amounts paid to those two minor employees were legally paid. There was no question of the correctness of the payments other than in law. In order to validate the payments, which no one has ever disputed were proper payments for services rendered, the present statutory rule was brought into operation. Later, the High Court ruled that, by virtue of section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act, a statutory rule could not be made retrospective. The regulation under review purported to be, effective as from the 28th April, 1926. No question as to the right of the , men to receive the money paid to them arises, nor is their status affected. The regulation which sought to validate the payments made to them also covered the newly created office of Economic Adviser in Australia. 
Although I admit that technical grounds exist for the motion, there is no real substance in the complaint made against the regulation. I point out tha J neither House of the Parliament has power to amend a regulation; it must accept or disallow the regulation  in tot".  I wish to make it clear that the regulation was not made in defiance of the judgment of the High Court, and ask honorable senators to reflect on the result of disallowing it. 
A new regulation could be brought in.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  implied that the whole regulation was bad in law by reason of the High Court judgment, but I point out that paragraphs 1 and 2 of the regulation are perfectly valid. But they would be disallowed if the motion were agreed to. I take it that the only desire of honorable senators is to reject that part of the regulation which conflicts with the decision of the High Court. For that reason, I ask them to reject the motion. But, in order that there shall be no suggestion of flouting the High Court, I undertake that if the motion is rejected, the Government will either repeal the regulation or amend it by removing the offending provision. 
I think not. It is, however, a more extreme case of retrospective action than usual. Honorable senators should be content to leave the adjustment of this matter to the Government, which will, if necessary, introduce a bill for the purpose. Whatever is done-, honorable senators can rest assured that the regulation will be so amended as not to offend against the decision of the High Court. 
That could be done; but the time limit in regard to disallowing regulations must not be overlooked. As the carrying of the motion would establish an undesirable precedent, and as the Government undertakes to amend the regulation so that it will not conflict with the decision of the High Court, I ask the Senate to reject the motion. 
 Although I appreciate the arguments of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and of the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  I, as a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, do not wish to shirk my responsibility in this matter. It is only fair to  Senator Duncan-Hughes  to say that the committee was actuated by the best intentions and the knowledge that any action to disallow the regulation must be taken within fifteen sitting  days  after the tabling of the regulation. I think that I am right when I say that to-day is the last day when action to disallow the regulation can be taken. I realize the force of the remarks of the Leader of the Senate concerning the danger of setting up an undesirable precedent, and I assure him and the Senate that the committee has no desire to interfere with the ordinary procedure in this chamber. In my opinion, there is nothing in the Standing Orders to require a report to be made by the committee in writing. It may be that a written report is preferable to a verbal one, but the Standing Orders do not preclude the making  of  reports other than in writing. 
That may be, but many reports are not made in writing. Eor instance, the  Chairman  of Committees frequently makes verbal reports to the Senate. In any event, the Senate is master of its own business. The committee is not attempting to force the hand of the Senate, but it believes that it is fully justified in drawing the attention of the Senate to a matter of principle. 
A dangerous precedent will be established if the Senate concurs in the making of a regulation which is retrospective for nine years. Whatever honorable senators may think of the way in which this subject has been brought before the Senate, they will, I think, credit the committee with having done its duty in drawing attention to it. In general I concur with the remarks of the Leader of the Government, and I accept the undertaking given by the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan).  However, in this matter, responsibility certainly rests with the Senate and I remind honorable senators that this is the last day upon which we can take action in the matter. 
I suggest that the motion be withdrawn and that, as this is the last day upon which the matter can be considered,  Senator DuncanHughes,  as  chairman  of the committee, should make a report upon which the Senate may take whatever action it thinks fit. 
I do not propose to discuss the procedure involved in this case, but shall deal with the substance of the matter raised by  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  Too much stress has been laid upon a recent decision of the High Court with regard to section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act. Section 12 of theDried Fruits Export Control Act provides power to appoint officers, and also that officers appointed in pursuance of that section should not be subject to the Commonwealth Public Service Act. A further sub-section provides that the salaries and conditions of employment of officers appointed in pursuance of this section shall be prescribed. The prescriptions were framed practically on the same lines as the schedules which honorable senators will find attached to this regulation except for some omissions. In a desire to meet criticisms of the Audit Office, the regulation was amended in terms which have now been challenged by  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  I point out that a distinction can be drawn between the broadcasting case to which the 'honorable senator referred and the matter with which we are now dealing. The Dried Fruits Export Control Act gave power to make regulations, and section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act says - 
Where an act confers power to make regulations, all regulations made accordingly shall. unless the contrary intention appears - 
he notified in the  Gazette. 
take effect from the date of notifica tion, or from a later date specified' in the regulations. 
I draw the attention of honorable senators to the words " take effect ". The broadcasting case, because it concerned accrued rights and vested interests, was very different from the matter to which the statutory rule under discussion applies and it appears that the High Court strained the effect of. section 10 in the interests of common justice. Here we are not attempting to interfere with anybody's rights. We are endeavouring to vest with authority and protect certain officers who, without such protection, would be liable to the Crown for the amounts they have disbursed without proper regulating authority. It was never intended under the Dried Fruits Export Control Act that the whole of the staff payments should be regulated by the statute itself. It was intended that such should 'be prescribed by regulation and the regulation is retrospective in effect only insofar as it endeavours to empower, regulate, and legalize something that has already been done. 
I suggest that the case upon which the honorable senator relies is absolutely distinguishable from the present ease as the observations of the justices who delivered the judgment will show. Regulation 67 A, which was involved in the broadcasting case, was one empowering the Crown to deduct certain payments, andthat was made retrospective. In the opinion of the court, it was retrospective legislation with a vengeance, in that it interfered retrospectively with the accrued rights of certain people. Dealing with this matter,  Mr. Ham,  K.C., said - 
The purpose of the regulation is not to define the terms on which the plaintiffs are to do their work, but to take away from them an accrued right. The regulation is bad, not merely because it is retroactive, but because it cancels debts which the Commonwealth owes. 
The point is that that regulation cut across rights that had already accrued. The regulation before the Senate, insofar . as it embodies the old regulation, has been in force for a considerable time. I do not think it was intended that the statutes should contain all these details. If  Senator DuncanHughes  is right in the contention that all retrospective regulations are bad, then there is only one way to avoid them, and that is to inflict a body of detailed statute law on the Parliament from time to time. While the point at issue may not be of any importance with regard to this particular case, it becomes of considerable importance in the entire administration of Commonwealth affairs. The strong point in favour of the honorable senator's argument is contained in the majority judgment of the Chief Justice and Justices Evatt and McTiernan - 
In our opinion this clause is inconsistent: with section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1904-1930 and is void . . . This objection is, of itself, sufficient to invalidate the regulation, but its invalidity can be demonstrated upon broader grounds. For the essence of the regulation is its attempt to alter and set aside the accrued rights of those who had already provided a broadcasting service to the public, and for whose remuneration provision had already been made in the regulations. No  one  disputes that the mere fact that a statute cif the Commonwealth Parliament operates retrospectively is insufficient to invalidate it. Hut, where the executive Government attempts to give to a regulation a retroactive operation the validity of the regulation is necessarily dependent upon the precise term of tha grant which the Parliament has conferred upon the executive. 
The whole point is the effect of the regulation retrospectively. Parliament Iia:conferred upon the Executive plenary powers under the Dried Fruits Export Control Act to make regulations regarding the staff -and the salaries to be paid. 
I think so. One must look at these things in a workaday world as referring to ordinary  commercial  conditions. For  instance  clerks, fumigators and others are required, from day to day, as shipments of fruit arrive in London, and these matters cannot be regulated entirely from Australia. I suggest that these are not conditions of the kind which the judgment of the court aims at. Nor do 1 believe that if section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act stood alone, the court would have decided as it did. Regulation 67a really represented an effort on the part of the Executive Council, without the authority of thu Parliament, to prevent certain people from receiving payments to which, in the opinion of the court, they were entitled, and the attempt was made retrospectively. The court said that the essence of  the  regulation was its attempt to alter and set aside an accrued right.  Mr. Justice  Rich, in his judgment, said - [n my opinion, the regulation is void insofar a* it purports to authorize a further deduction from thu available revenue accruing prior to the date of its adoption. 
Upon that he rested his judgment entirely - that the regulation was an interference with accrued rights and retrospective legislation of that sort was not to be countenanced.  Mr. Justice  Starke dissented from the majority judgment. I put it to honorable senators that this motion seeks to disallow a regulation which is retrospective only in that it attempts to validate something that was done in the ordinary course of business. It doe3 not attempt to interfere with the rich ls of anybody; but it protects those public servants who, in the discharge of their duties, had misconstrued the effect  of Hie earlier regulation. No one had challenged it, and there would have been a complete answer to any suggestion of the Auditor-General that we were acting improperly.  Mr. Justice  Starke said - 
It is difficult to speak of accrued or vested rights when they are so conditioned. Nevertheless, it is said that the regulating power cannot authorize the creation of new obligations or duties in respect of transactions or considerations already past. 
This regulation does not interfere with any vested rights, and to expand the principle laid down by the High Court to include such cases as this would be dangerous. If the Senate adopted the motion on the grounds that this regulation is illegal it would be constituting itself a court, and applying a principle which was applied by the court to a totally different set of circumstances. The Senate would also be interpreting section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act in a way in which I do not think it should be interpreted. The law provides that all regulations made shall, unless the contrary intention appears, be notified in the Government  Gazette,  and shall come into effect from the date of such notification. Stress has been laid upon accrued rights, but this is an instance of administrative regulations framed to enable the department to administer the law satisfactorily. 
Such action would interfere with vested rights. This regulation is to be retrospective, and is to take effect from the date notified in the  Gazette. 
If regulations interfered with vested rights and were contrary to the law as laid down by the High Court. 
In view of the High Court's decision we have no authority to say that this regulation, if it does not interfere with vested rights, is bad. 
The honorable senator is suggesting that the exercise of this power might enable a government to impose retrospective charges upon the taxpayers. The honorable senator knows that the Executive is responsible to Parliament.  Senator DuncanHughes  is asking the Senate to apply a legal corrective for something which  does  not exist. 
The honorable senator is probably aware that the law provides that regulations must be tabled in Parliament. The Senate should not usurp the functions of the court by determining whether the regulation is good or bad. Strong arguments have been used in support of the contention of  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  but the Senate should not go to the extent of disallowing the regulation. 
.- Whatever opinions may be held concerning the procedure which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has adopted the honorable senator has been responsible for a very interesting discussion. I do not propose to attempt to deal with the legal points raised and replied to by the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  beyond saying that I understand that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  objects to this regulation because it is retrospective. 
The gravamen of his objection is based on paragraph 3 which makes it retrospective. The honorable senator is asking the Senate to constitute itself a court of law and to say that every retrospective regulation adopted by the executive must necessarily be illegal. That is going very far. This is a matter requiring most careful consideration. I have had a fairly long ministerial experience and I am sure that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  will agree with me that this is by no means an isolated case. A perusal of the statutory rules and regulations would reveal that there are hundreds involving retrospective action. 
Yes, and in correcting the informalities the rights of individuals are not affected. Pure technicalities can be adjusted legally in this way and that has been done hundreds of times in the history of the Commonwealth. 
I am not prepared to say that the honorable senator has interpreted correctly the High Court judgment. He is a lawyer and his interpretation may be correct, but some other legal authority may give a different interpretation. 

 Senator McLeay. -  There was a difference of opinion on the High Court Bench.  Senator Sir WALTER  MASSYGREENE. - Exactly. I am prepared to accept the statement of the Minister. With the Leader of the Senate I am prepared to absolve  Senator Duncan-Hughes  and those associated with him from any desire to act contrary to the Standing Orders which prescribe the procedure to be adopted. Standing Order 36a provides that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is a standing committee, and Standing Order 37a provides that the procedure to be adopted in the proceedings of a standing committee shall be the same as in a select committee unless the Senate otherwise orders. This standing committee is governed by the rules of a select committee. Standing Order 310 provides that it shall be the duty of the  chairman  of every select committee . to prepare a draft report. It is clear from Standing Order 311 that the draft report has to be in writing, and that each part of the report has to be submitted to members of the committee so that they may vote upon it. Standing Order 312 provides that there may be an alternative report, No. 313 for re-consideration, and No. 314 for the report of the committee to be signed by the  chairman.  It is clear that the report of the committee must be in writing and signed by the  chairman.  The Standing Orders continue - 
The report of a committee shall be presented to the Senate by the  Chairman,  and may be read. 
Upon the presentation of a. report no discussion shall take place; but the report may bo ordered to be printed with documents accompanying it. 
If any proceeding be necessary upon a report of a committee, such proceeding shall be brought under the consideration of the Senate by a specific motion, of which notice must be given in the usual manner. 
So it is perfectly clear that if the committee, which I admit does a great deal of thankless work and spends a tremendous amount of time on a lot of very dry matter, desires to bring before this chamber the fact that a regulation may be invalid and requires action by the Senate, its report must be submitted in writing and presented by the  chairman.  Then, if action is necessary, a motion may be made before the Senate. 
1 listened with a great deal of interest to the remarks of the various speakers' and particularly to  Senator MassyGreene.  I do not agree with him. The position is that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  himself has moved that a certain statutory rule be disallowed. We are dealing, not with a report from any committee, but with a private motion made by  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  Admittedly, he mentioned in the course of his remarks that he is the  chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. 
He said that incidentally, but he acted as a private member. The Leader of ' the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  disagreed altogether with the .procedure adopted, and berated  Senator Duncan-Hughes  for having taken this action. Throughout my association with the Senate, there has been a great deal of dissatisfaction with the system of government by regulation. 
Honorable Senators.  -  Hear, hear ! 
Yes. Certain speakers have said that the committee is presuming to set itself above the Par liament. That is altogether incorrect. The motion asks the Senate, not the  President  or the committee, to disallow the regulation.  Senator Brennan  skated around the main point, and I regard his explanation as being like the curate's egg, good in parts. The Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  went in circles around the issue of the validity or otherwise of the regulation, and when  Senator Duncan-Hughes  asked him point blank whether the regulation was legal, he did not answer. 
 Senator MassyGreene  stated that hundreds of retrospective regulations have been in operation, but 100 wrongs do not make one right. This committee is functioning as I never remember a Standing Committee to function before. It has warned the Senate that it is following a dangerous course, and that this regulation should not be allowed to remain. Nobody has expressed on behalf of ' the Senate gratitude to the committee for the amount of work it does. 
The honorable senator acknowledged it in a very halfhearted and offhanded manner. The committee has rendered great service to this chamber. No honorable senator can say that this regulation, is good. The Senate desires to know whether it is good or bad. Some honorable senators stated that the chamber was constituting itself a court of law; but the Senate is given the power to disallow, and we are entitled to pronounce on every regulation our considered judgment. The alternative is to have government by regulation, and bills might as well become law without consulting this chamber at all.. I support the motion moved by  Senator DuncanHughes. 
Having listened attentively to the remarks of Ministers, I fail to understand why they feel obliged to support something which in their hearts they know is not correct. I took particular  interest in the extracts which  Senator A.  J. McLachlan quoted from the judgment of the 'High Court. The judges stated not once, but several times that the regulation was invalid, not only because it was retrospective, but also for other reasons, but the point mentioned by them, first was always the retrospective aspect. This regulation purports to validate payments made since 1926. Certain honorable senators stated that this chamber has no judicial decision to guide it in this matter. I say that the verdict of the majority of judges of the High Court was definite and unequivocal.  Senator Brennan  stated that the regulation, with the exception of paragraph 3, was valid. The Government is seeking to do by a subterfuge what should be done by legislation. No honorable senator can deny that. 
-No ; but this chamber is constantly having to pass legislation to validate something that has been done irregularly. Although this particular matter may be regarded as unimportant, because it concerns only one or two people, and the public is not vitally interested in it, a big principle is involved. If another party took office and promulgated regulations to make something retrospective over the terms of three or four parliaments, would honorable senators sitting on this side of the chamber consent to it? Because the matter immediately at stake is small, we should not be prepared to accept something which we know is wrong in principle, and dangerous. I support the motion to disallow the regulation. 
I do not propose to deal with the legal aspect of this debate, because, having heard the different arguments advanced by the legal gentlemen who sit in this chamber - and I shall leave legal technicalities to them - I confess myself more confused than ever. As a Labour member of that committee, I attended every sitting, and I can inform honorable senators that we investigated this matter very closely. In bringing before this Senate something which we believe to be wrong, we have done what we consider to be ourduty. The committee was unanimously of the opinion, in the light of the judgment of the High Court, that the regulation was bad in principle, because it was retrospective for a period of nine years. The committee, therefore, decided toacquaint the Senate of its decision, with a view to having the regulation disallowed. Perhaps we have not observed all the forms demanded by the StandingOrders relating to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The most serious omission appears to me to be, not so much in respect of the presentation of the report - the Standing Orders do not state whether it shall be verbal, typewritten, or printed - as in the failure togive notice of the motion to the Senate. The committee did not give notice, but it had an excellent reason for failing to do so; only one day remained of the period within which the regulation could be disallowed. Hence the committee gave  Senator Duncan-Hughes  authority to make the report verbally. 
Yes. 
We found that there are other regulations which are retrospective, though perhaps they are not so important. The committee considered that this matter was of sufficient importance to warrant its being brought before the Senate. This is a subject which, apart from, the legal technicalities, must appeal to every honorable senator as one that should engage the attention of this chamber. Ministers have admitted that something should be done.  Senator Brennan,  representing the Attorney-General, stated that the matter would be referred to the department concerned, and that something different from ihe existing regulation would be introduced. I repeat, the committee was unanimously of the opinion that the Senate should be informed of its discovery, and any failure to comply with the formalities that has occurred was due to the pressure of time. There has been frequently a protest, particularly by the Opposition,, against legislation by administrative act or regulation. Undoubtedly every honorable senator is interested in having the position clarified, so that the committee and the Senate may know what are their powers when reviewing ordinances that involve a possible encroachment on the legislative power of the Parliament. 
As a member of that committee, I believe that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  was perfectly correct in submitting the motion. The  President  accepted the motion, so it is competent for the Senate rc discuss it. 
A private member has brought forward a motion, and the Senate proceeds to discuss it; then honorable senators are informed by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce),  and by  Senator Massy-Greene,  that some standing order has been ignored, because the committee should, first, have made a report in writing. Is there any standing order which states that the committee must bring in a report before a private member may make a motion? 

 Senator Sir George Pearce. - I took exception to  Senator Duncan-Hughes's  statement that he moved the motion at the request of the committee, and that such procedure was the committee's method of acquainting the Senate of its decision. 
I understand that, and I consider the procedure to be perfectly in order if the committee empowered the  chairman  to take this course. I fail to see the cause for any worry and excitement over a course of action which is not prohibited by the Standing Orders. It is not mandatory that the committee should first submit a written report to the Senate, before a senator may move in his private capacity.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan said that the judgment of the High Court in the broadcasting case &gt;vas based on the protection of accrued rights. In that case a private enterprise applied to the court, and obtained judgment in its favour. Suppose that the regulation now under consideration had been made retrospective in respect of the action of some one in London who had reduced the wages of certain employees of the Department of Commerce. Honorable senators agree that retrospective legislation is wrong in principle when it affects adversely the individual citizen. Under a retrospective regulation, workers in London might be obliged to return wages paid to them over a series of years. For instance, an unfortunate man employed by the board in fumigating goods in London might be called upon to refund a portion of his wages. I have never been' in favour of wage reduction, whether it affects Parliamentarians in Canberra or workers in London. The Assistant Minister has suggested that one result of the disallowance of this regulation may be that a humble worker in London will have to repay wages received since 1926. If so, I shall be compelled to vote against the judgment of the committee, because I feel sure that, whenever the opportunity presents itself, certain people will always move the courts to do as I have indicated. Only a few days ago I had brought under my notice a case in which action was taken in the courts to secure a refund of portion of wages paid to Brisbane workers who had been taken off relief work and given regular employment for five and a half days a week. The result was that their position at the end of each week was worse than it would have been had they remained on relief work. 
I understand from the Minister that much confusion will be caused if this regulation is disallowed ; but he has given an assurance that the Government will take immediate action to overcome any difficulty arising from the invalidity of the regulation. 
That being so, no harm can be done if the Senate disallows t he regulation. 
Could not the Government, in the next 24 hours, issue regulations embodying those provisions? 
I regard the retrospective nature of these regulations as particularly dangerous. Lord Hewart, inThe  New Despotism,  has emphasized that Parliament is being robbed of its legislative functions by governments legislating for the community by regulations.  Mr. F.  A. Bland, lecturer an public administration in the University of Sydney, and recognized as the foremost authority in Australia on parliamentary institutions and their working, has also directed attention to this trend in recent years, and has pointed out that legislators are really becoming merely cogs in a gigantic law-making machine.  Senator Massy-Greene  this afternoon reminded us that during the last few years hundreds of regulations, having retrospective effect, had been adopted by both Houses nf the Parliament. This being so, it is time that the Senate called a " show down ". It is bad enough when regulations having no retrospective effect take the place of legislation by Parliament. Regulations that are retrospective in their effect may, and often do, have direful results. All retrospective legislation that has been passed by Parliaments, Commonwealth or State, has been objectionable. It is urged,  in  support of this trend in legislation, that errors made in administration are covered up by the issue of retrospective regulations. This expedient places in the hands of Ministers the most effective and dangerous instrument that could be devised to cover up administrative faults, because, as frequently happens, large numbers of regulations are laid on the table, and, unless disallowed within the prescribed period, they become law. Legislation by this method. is an abrogation of the best British traditions of parliamentary government. I am, therefore, definitely opposed to a continuance of the practice, if it is a practice, of issuing regulations of a retrospective character. To replace legislation by regulations is to prevent this chamber from discharging its proper functions as a house of review, and from amending legislation which, in its opinion, should be altered. 
.  - As a new member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, I was surprised to learn that no fewer than 164 statutory regulations were laid on the table of the Senate last year. At the first meeting of the committee whichI attended,we were called upon to consider the regulation which is now the subject of the motion moved by  Senator DuncanHughes.  I have no desire to do anything that might embarrass the Government. I listened carefully to the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan),  who gave us an assurance that, if the motion were withdrawn, he would see that the matter was put in order. 
It would be unfortunate if, through the carrying of the motion the whole of the regulation were disallowed. My name is associated with another motion on the notice-paper, and I ask the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to bear with me, and with other new senators, if, for a time, we fail to adopt the correct procedure in this chamber. 
Regulations may be of a far-reaching nature, yet it seems to me that many honorable senators do not scrutinize them as carefully as they should. Among those who gave evidence before the Select Committee appointed by the Senate to consider the advisability of setting up standing committees to deal with, amongst other things, regulations and ordinances, were several outstanding constitutional lawyers who advised members of Parliament to be careful to scrutinize all regulations. I trust that honorable senators will read the report of the Select Committee and in future give to regulations the consideration that they deserve. 
. -in  reply  - I desire, first of all, to assure the Senate that in the course which I adopted there was no lack of proper deference to the Senate and no intention to act improperly, as the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has suggested I have done. In my opening remarks I went out of my way to say that the normal method of procedure would have been to submit a report. I then gave my reasons for not adopting that course. 
-HUGHES. - The' Standing Order which relates to the proceedings of committees of the Senate does not exclude any member of it from acting in his private capacity if he thinks fit to do so. I ask for your ruling,  Mr. President,  as to whether I have acted within the Standing Orders of the Senate. 
The motion is perfectly in order. 
Three points in connexion with this subject appear to me to be relevant. The first is whether my statement that I have represented the unanimous view of the committee, is disputed. Is it suggested that I have not made a truthful statement about the unanimity of the members of the committee in regard to this matter? I do not think that the Leader of the Government would accuse me of a deliberate mis-statement. Indeed, it would have been foolish of me to claim to represent the unanimous view of the committee if that were not so in fact, because the members of that committee could, and no doubt would, have disagreed with me. 
No Minister who has spoken has made it clear whether,- in his judgment, the regulation is valid and legal. 
By Section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1904-1930, it is provided that where an act confers power to make regulations, all regulations made accordingly shall, unless the contrary intention appears, (i.e. appears from the act), take effect as from the date of notification nr from a later dato specified in the regulations. 
In the case of the regulation here attacked, it was  expressely  provided in clause 2 that it should be deemed to have commenced on the 1st November, 1927, a date some nine months earlier than the date of the notification. 
The only difference in the regulation .1 have brought before the Senate is that it is nine years, not months, earlier - 
In our opinion this clause is inconsistent with Section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1904-1930 and is void. 
That is the pronouncement of a majority of the High Court on a precisely identical point. I went out of my way to stress that the ethical merits of the two cases were not the same. But, in law, they are absolutely identical. 
I am forced to take notice of  Senator Brennan's  statement that the decision of the High Court had not come to the notice of the department when the new regulation wa3 issued. The judgment of the High Court was delivered on the 21st February and the regulation was dated the 26th March. Are we to imagine that the law officers of the Crown are not conversant with a High Court judgment until five or six weeks after it has been delivered, particularly when it may affect not only the regulation in respect of which the decision was given but also a number of other regulations? Although the full verbatim report of a case might not be available for some time, surely the legal advisers of the Crown are informed, in some detail, of a decision of the High Court soon after it is made. I should have thought that at least a type-written report of every judgment is made available to them immediately. 

 Senator Brennan also said that no person had been detrimentally affected by the regulation. What about the taxpayers? If money has been paid without legal authority, some one is detrimentally affected. Although I happen to have been called to the bar, I am not practising at. present, and have not done so for 20 years. For that reason I do not speak as a lawyer when I say that in my opinion  Senator Massy-Greene  was wrong in the views that he expressed. The honorable senator's contention was equivalent to saying that it is not for the Senate to set itself up as a High Court. A person who consults a number of lawyers very likely receives a different opinion from each of them. But surely when we have before us u regulation which obviously is governed by a decision of the High Court this year, it is only courtesy to that tribunal t hat this chamber should recognize that decision, and its application to the present circumstances; otherwise it will mean, in all probability, that every case will have to be fought before the High Court, and the right of this chamber to disallow regulations will simply disappear because there may always be argument on points of law. The Assistant Minister has amply confirmed my views on the legal aspect of this matter. The PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLach- lan)  was doubtful as to the validity or invalidity of the regulation. 
I move - 
That Statutory Rules 1935, No. 30 [Dried Fruits Export Control (Licences) Regulations] be disallowed. 
Some regulations issued under the Dried Fruits Export Control Act are of benefit to those engaged in the production of. dried fruits, and should be retained, but. there are others which should be disallowed. The report of the Select Committee which reported to the Senate on the establishment of Standing Committees quotes the opinion of Lord Hewart, Lord Chief Justice of England, who, in his book  The New Despotism  deals with the practice of legislating in Great Britain by means of regulations. He said - 
The public service has become a powerful bureaucracy usurping the prerogatives of Parliament. Some statutory regulations, though not  ultra vires,  deal with matters which should be dealt with by act of Parliament or an a mending act. 
No. In perusing the report of the Select Committee, I was interested to read that Professor Kenneth Hamilton Bailey, Dean of the Faculty of Law at the University of Melbourne, in giving evidence on the 30th of January, 1930, said - 
I direct attention to the regulations under the Dried Fruits Export Control Act of 1924. 
Of all the regulations affecting primary producers, this eminent authority selected those issued under the Dried Fruits Export Control Act. He continued - 
Some of the regulations are relatively unimportant, and do not require such aclose scrutiny. The important regulations needing scrutiny are those which impose substantive law and prescribe the rights and duties of whole classes of citizens. I draw attention in that category to another block of regulations in the same section - those relating . to licences. The rules provide that the Government may by proclamation prohibit the export of dried fruit except under licence and the conditions under which licences may be granted are very rigid and definite in the regulations. 
The regulations provide - 
A licence to export dried fruit to countries other than the United Kingdom and Now Zealand shall be subject to these conditions - 
) That the exporter shall insure each shipment of dried fruit with such company or companies as the board determines; 
That the exporter shall ship all dried fruit with such shipping companies as the board determines; 
That in the case of sales of dried fruit to Canada the Minister must be satisfied that the fruit is sold subject to such terms and conditions as are approved by the board, and in such quantities as are from time to time determined by the board. 
Those regulations were in force in 1930, but are mild, compared with Statutorv Rule No. 30 of 1935. 
In the case of exports to Canada the board may, if not satisfied with the conditions of sale, decline to issue a licence. The point I wish to stress is that regulations become operative when approved by the GovernorGeneral in Council, unless disallowed by either House of Parliament. Professor Bailey continued - 
These regulations affect intimately and very greatly the livelihood of all classes of citizens and call for special scrutiny. 
I shall show that they are very rigid, and have a detrimental effect upon primary producers in South Australia. In giving evidence before the committee,  Sir John  Peden said - 
The system of legislating by statutory rules and ordinances goes too far in some directions.  The New Despotism  by Lord Hewart appears to me to be a very valuable book. 
The present Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  giving evidence before the committee said - 
I am somewhat concerned at the growing tendency to legislate by regulation. No legislative change should find expression in a regulation. 
A pronounced legislative change is being made in the regulations now being considered by the Senate, and if adopted, will have a very detrimental effect upon a large number of persons engaged in the production of dried fruits. The industry is divided into three sections. There are those like  Mr. James  who are opposed to any form of control. There are others, who are members of the Independent Dried Fruits Association of South Australia, on whose behalf I am speaking, an independent organization, formed because of the rigid nature of the regulations. That association, which was formed in December of last year, now has a membership of over 1,000, who dispose of the whole or a portion of the crops of 1,200 to 1,500 fruit-growers. At the first conference,  Mr. G.  A. W. Pope,  chairman  of the Dried Fruits Board of South Australia, is reported to have said - 

 His board welcomed the advent of a new organization because it would give them an opportunity to do something which they had never been able to do before, and that was to ascertain the view-point of the whole industry instead of sections of it, and to administer the Dried Fruits Act, and matters pertaining to it in a manner which would be of benefit to the whole industry instead of to only portion of it. 
The third section of the industry is controlled by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, which has done a great, deal for the dried fruits industry of Australia, and is entitled to every credit for what it has accomplished in orderly marketing and control. This association controls a kind of pool, and growers sell fruit on consignment. The independent organization which buys fruit for cash is giving such satisfaction to a large number of growers in South Australia that its business has increased considerably. This independent undertaking has increased its operations so substantially that the Australian Dried Fruits Association has become concerned at the amount of business that it is losing to the organization. The board controlling the export of dried fruits is composed of eight members drawn as follows : two from Victoria, and one each from New South Wales, South Australia- and Western Australia, while the remaining three are appointed by the Government. The Government nominees 
I believe, were selected on account of their experience in commerce, and were men qualified to watch the welfare of the industry from the business angle. It is interesting to note that one member of the board who was appointed by the Government was  Mr. J.  B. Murdoch, of Waikerie, a prominent member of the Australian Dried Fruits Association. Theses men have done excellent work, and they are highly respected and esteemed in South Australia. But honorable senators will realize that, with six of the eight members of the Dried Fruits Export Control Board prominently associated with the Australian Dried Fruits Association, the existing regulations and the power that the board has, may be used drastically to prejudice the interests of immediate competitors, that is, the members of the independent association. 
Yes, and the remaining three are appointed by the Government. 
They are, and so is one of the Government appointees. In my opinion, this board is prejudiced against the majority of the independent growers, who have rendered good service to the industry. They are quite prepared to submit to reasonable regulations. But it is for honorable senators, not a board dominated by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, which is most anxious to protect its own interests, to define what are reasonable regulations. 
That will be a matter for the Department of Commerce to decide. An alternative set of regulations could readily be drawn up. 
It is not our wish to destroy the board, but we wish to prevent it, dominated as it is by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, from doing an injustice to a large section of growers in the dried fruits industry. If certain amendments and alterations are made, the industry as a whole, and even the growers who are members of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, will obtain a' better deal as a result of healthy competition. 
It is substantially greater than that of the independent association, which has 1,000 members. I take a serious view of a statement made by the  president  of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, who is a member of the Dried Fruits Export Control Board. It concerns his attitude towards competitors. A press report of a meeting at Red Cliffs on Friday, the 14th June, 1935, reads - 
The need for unity to combat the menace of the outside dealers to the Australian Dried Fruits Association was stressed by the  chairman  of the board of management of the association,  Mr. H.  D. Howie, at a general meeting of the Red Cliffs branch on Wednesday night. Thirty growers attended, and the  chairman  welcomed  Mr. Howie, Mr. A.  L. Johnstone,  chairman  of the Federal Council of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, and visitors from Renmark. 

 Mr. Howie dealt with the question of "outside " fruit in South Australia, which, he said, had always been a bugbear to Victorian growers and those South Australian growers who were in the Australian Dried Fruits Association. 
Is not competition desirable in the industry, and would it not react to the advantage of both the Australian Dried Fruits Association, grower-members, and the growers in the independent organization? These men are anxious to sell their product for cash, and there are ready buyers waiting. Wheat-growers are in much the same position. One honorable senator present, who is a prominent wheat-grower, can please himself whether he sells to the pool or privately - a privilege which he prizes most highly. 
Certainly I do. I shall explain how far, in my opinion, honorable senators should venture in regard to the fixing of regulations on this important matter, but before doing so, I desire to show that  Mr. Howie  and members of the Australian Dried Eruits Association, who dominate the board, are prejudiced against this private organization and resent reasonable competition. The report continues - 
Tempting cash prices were being offered in South Australia by outside sheds,  Mr. Howie  stated, and many growers in the four river districts in that State were being induced to accept them. '' But by doing so," he said, they are only placing another nail in. the coffin of marketing legislation, and growers should hesitate before taking advantage of these seemingly good offers." 
In answer to a question,  Mr. Howie  stated that between HOO and 700 ton3 of sultanas in Victoria were taken to outside packing sheds. He said that the Australian Dried Fruits Association had played a big part in the obtaining of preference on the various markets, and they claimed that that preference should be shared by all sections of the growers, and not My " outside " growers, who were now securing advantages on the Canadianmarket. 
Those remarks appear in the newspaper which, I understand, is controlled by the Australian Dried Fruits Association.  Mr. Howie  is the  president  of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, and a member of the Dried Fruits Export Control Board. It is stated that at a meeting of growers in Eenmark on the 22nd August, he admitted, in reply to a question, that he could see in these regulations an excellent opportunity  to  give the independent packers a " crack in the neck." I regard such an attitude if it 'be correct that  Mr. Howie  made the statement as being tantamount to a hitbelow the belt. I have no desire to do any injustice to  Mr. Howie,  and I ask honorable senators to reserve their judgment, pending the production of proof, as to whether the criticism is justified or not. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

I think I have said sufficient to prove that the Dried Fruits Export Control Board is dominated by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, a voluntary organization which is in competition with other growers. In support of what I have said about the tactics of the board I shall mention one or two incidents that are reported to have occurred. Under the act exporters of dried fruits are required to obtain the permission of the board. I am advised that some time ago a merchant sold a shipment of dried fruit to a Canadian firm at a price f.o.b. Port Adelaide, to be shipped by a vessel named by the purchaser.  His  request to be allowed to send  the  fruit by this vessel was refused by the board, notwithstanding that the price had received the board's approval. The merchant was required to send the shipment to Melbourne and thence to Canada by a vessel sailing from- that port. 
Evidently the Leader of the Opposition is under the impression that I am opposed to the control of marketing. 
I hope to be able to convince both honorable senators that I do not object to the control of marketing. 
I am stating my case to the best of my ability and before I close I hope to be able to convince the Leader of the Opposition that the board, by its action, has done an injustice to a large section of the growers. 
Between 1,200 and 1,500 growers sell the whole or portion of their fruit through this organization. They know that they can sell for cash whereas if they sell through the Australian Dried Fruits Association they have to chance what they will get. Therefore they are more vitally concerned than are the merchants. Naturally the Canadian buyer was incensed at the action of the board.  His  comments were published in the monthly circular of the  Dried Fruits Producer,  an Adelaide trade journal, on the 20th June,  1935.  To be absolutely fair I made available to the Minister the information which had been placed in my hands, in order that justice should be done to the growers. This is what the Canadian buyer-broker had to say about the matter- 
These goods were bought f.o.b. Australia, whereby the freight and insurance are for account of the buyer. Surely the buyer, who is paying the freight, has the right to say by -which steamer he wishes his merchandise to be carried? 
Obviously the honorable senator has not had much business experience. The buyer-broker stated further - 
The buyers resent the interference by the board and desire to know by what right they dictate the name of the boat by which the Canadian buyers, who are paying the freight, shall have their merchandise shipped. They have protested to the Canadian Government of this unwarranted interference- 
No; but I am in favour of some control. I submit that the Senate should see that regulations, framed for the purpose of controlling the export of our primary products, do not operate unjustly against legitimate competitors. My colleague,  Senator Uppill,  quite properly favours, or does not object to, a voluntary pool for wheat because it permits him to sell either to the pool or in the open market, whichever offers him the better return. I take the same view with regard to the marketing of our dried fruits. The buyer broker continued - 
The board probably knows as well as the buyers know that as long as Australian prices are as favorable as they are to-day, owing to the fact that they have no duty to contend with, there is nothing to fear. However, the time will come probably on the next change of government, which may be within the next twelve months, when there may be some changes in the Canadian-Australian treaty and raisins from other countries may be permitted to come in without the present handicap. When this comes, buyers will not give the same support to Australia as they have been more or less compelled to give in the past. 
There was similar trouble in connexion with another contract for the sale of fruit to Canada. The exporter, having secured the necessary licence, contracted to sell a certain quantity at a price which was acceptable to the board. One of the terms was that the fruit should be shipped from Adelaide in April. As the exporter was unable to get space in the April boat he was obliged to ship it in May, and because it was being exported a month later the board would not allow the fruit to go forward at the original price. This was what the Canadian broker had to say about that decision - 
Take, for instance, the arbitrary stand that they took last year on the shipments that, shippers were not able to get on the April steamer, and it had to come on the May steamer. The board would not grant permits for this fruit to come through at the April price. 
These ridiculous, harassing, and pinpricking regulations could only have been devised by a board, six members of which belong to the Australian Dried Fruits Association, which is anxious to do everything in its power to prevent its immediate competitors from carrying on their legitimate business. 
It is, but, if the reports are correct, it is amply justified.  Senator Hardy.  - I rise to a point of order.  Senator McLeay  is not showing that the regulations, which are the machinery to give effect to the intention of Parliament, are not in conformity with the act under which they are made. I submit that it is incumbent on the honorable senator to do this, otherwise any honorable senator could submit a motion objecting to certain sections of acts, and in that way seek to annul legislation which had been passed by Parliament. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J.  Lynch). - The point of order taken by  Senator Hardy  is an important one. He submits that  Senator McLeay,  in support of his motion to disallow the regulations made under the Dried Fruits Export Control Act, should show that they discriminate unfairly against certain sections of the industry concerned. Up to this point in his argument  Senator McLeay  has produced evidence of, discrimination, and in asking the Senate to disallow the regulations he is seeking to give a relief to those producers who, in his opinion, have suffered because of this discrimination. Therefore I rule that the honorable senator is in order, butI shall expect him to show that the regulations are not in conformity with the act. 
I hope to be able to show that by its attitude, the board is abusing the regulations. It had no right to interfere with the shipping instructions given by the Canadian buyer. 
The motion is within the Standing Orders, for it is within the power of the Senate to disallow these regulations which are far too drastic. The board is using them unfairly, and if we allow them to remain in their present form, we shall do a great injustice to a number of citizens. 
The people concerned were given only one day'3 notice that these regulations were to come into force.  That was most unreasonable. They immediately approached the Export Control Board and asked for a conference. No reply was received to their first letter, but to the second communication the board replied refusing the request. Such actions prove that the board is biased, and that there is need for these regulations to be carefully considered 'by honorable senators. 
I am opposed to only three or four of these regulations, yet, apparently, I must either accept or reject them all. I favour the fixation of prices, the regulation of quantities, and the control of a number of matters by a board , but I am opposed to vesting too much power in one body if thereby the growers in the industry are placed in a precarious position. 
This matter is of such vital importance that the discussion should be adjourned for three weeks in order that the Minister may ascertain the correctness or otherwise of my statements, and, if the circumstances warrant it, modify the regulations to which the exporters and many growers object. 
I shall not deal with the regulations  scriatum,  but desire to draw attention to some of the provisions of regulation 7 which reads - 
The terms  and  conditions upon which licences to export dried fruits may be granted shall be as follows: - 
That the licensee shall comply with all regulations from time to time made under the act so far as the same are applicable to him. 
That the licensee shall not - 
sell any dried fruits overseas at a price less than the authorized price. 
Although drastic, that provision is essential. Seeing that 164 regulations were issued last year, and 100 to date this year, it is the duty pf honorable senators to exercise their undoubted right to deal with these regulations as they think fit, after careful scrutiny. Paragraphs  c, d. e, f,  and  g  of sub-section 2 are of far-reaching effect. 
Yes. They are accepted also by those merchants who buy for cash. I hope that the Senate will not confuse those merchants with  Mr. James  and those who, like him, are opposed to any control whatever. 
Paragraph 3 of regulation 7 reads - 
That the licensee shall ship all dried fruits through and to such agents as are authorized by the board. 
As in practice that means agents approved by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, it is unfair to other merchants who are its competitors. Paragraph 4 provides - 
That the licensee shall ship all dried fruits through such persons as the board determines. 
Paragraph 5 gives preference to certain insurance companies. It reads - 
That the licensee shall insure each shipment of dried fruits with such person as the board determines. 
Paragraph 6 of regulation 7 provides - 
That the licensee shall sell all dried fruits on such terms and conditions as are approved by the board, and to such purchasers through such agents and in such quantities as the board determines. 
Obviously, as one member has said, these regulations will "give his competitors a crack in the neck if his board can force his competitors to ship their produce by any vessel, whether it goes direct from Adelaide or Melbourne. Paragraph 16 of regulation 7 provides - 
That the licensee shall, whenever so required by notice in writing, signed by the secretary or an authorized person, withhold from export the whole or any portion of any dried fruits intended for export. 
There would be no difficulty, provided the board were not so biased as to be determined to stop its competitors. I am in favour of a quota and of a fixed price, but I am not in favour of the Australian Dried Fruits Association dominating the board and driving its competitors out of business. Other merchants who are in competition with the Australian Dried Fruits Association have established sheds, and sent agents to Canada where they have been successful in obtaining markets. They have given satisfaction to the growers, and should not be interfered with unreasonably. The regulations which the new regulations seek to repeal have been in operation for ten years and until recently have 'been fairly ' rigidly enforced. The independent members have not objected to that where the board has acted reasonably; and despite the difficulties with which they have had to contend, they have given fairly general satisfaction. If, however, some of the new regulations are not disallowed the independent exporters will be driven out of business, the money they have expended will be lost, and additional men will be seeking jobs. Moreover, nearly 1,500 growers who dispose of their fruit to these cash buyers, will be at the mercy of the Australian Dried Fruits Association. Many of them were previously members of that association but left it voluntarily. I trust that honorable senators will assert their rights, and not allow the board to decide what regulations shall be in force. 
When the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  was speaking this afternoon, I, as a new senator, thought that, in some way, sacred rights had been interfered with, because the right honorable gentleman seemed offended- at the course of action which had been taken. I respect 'his judgment, and ask him to give the Senate a lead in the matter of legislation by regulation. I ask him to indicate in what way these regulations can 'be modified so as to make them less drastic. The regulations are signed " By  His  Excellency's Command, Earle Page, Minister of State for Commerce." I do not, know wl' ether regulations are sent directly to the Governor-General by the Minister concerned or whether they have to be. approved by Cabinet. If they are the result of a Cabinet decision, I can appreciate the position of the Leader of the Senate, because loyalty among Cabinet colleagues has to be observed. I appeal to honorable senators to weigh every aspect of this matter carefully and if they believe that these regulations go too far, to do the right thing irrespective of any other consideration. What ever our decision may be, I hope that it will be in the best interests of the industry as a whole. 
Summing up, I claim that the Export Control Board is dominated by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, and that the latter body resents outside competition. The export trade should be regulated fairly, in the interests of all sections of the industry, including those who wish to sell for cash as well as those who sell through the Australian Dried Fruits Association on consignment. Some of these regulations are not designed to control export, but to drive exporters, who buy for cash, out of business; some infringe the rights and privileges of a large number of growers; and some of them constitute a chain of laws established by regulation, a practice against which, as I pointed out this afternoon, the honorable the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  protested when he gave evidence before the commission. If it is desired to establish a compulsory pool for the industry, then it is not for the board to establish such a pool by regulation, but for Parliament to do so by legislation. I draw attention to the evidence given on the 30th January, 1930, by Professor Kenneth Hamilton Bailey, Professor of Jurisprudence and Dean of the Faculty of Law in the University of Melbourne, before the Select Committee of the Senatewhich inquired into the establishment of standing committees, and upon whosereport the Regulations and Ordinances Committee was founded. ProfessorBailey said - 
Those regulations affect intimately and invery great detail the livelihood of a class of citizens, and they call for special scrutiny. 
Those regulations were of minor importance compared with these with which I am now dealing. Evidently ProfessorBailey was an independent thinker. I wonder what he would say if he happened to be an honorable senator to whom fell the duty of considering the regulations to which I am now referring - regulations which are much more drastic than those he said should be carefully scrutinized. I. hope that these regulations will be fully debated. I do not desire to do injustice to any member of the Australian Dried Fruits Association. That organization has done much for the dried fruits- industry. This Government also has done much to help the industry, and having gone so far I now appeal to it not to allow that board to suppress legitimate competition. These 1,500 men whom the Australian Dried Fruits Association opposes have shown admirable ability and initiative in private enterprise, and, having explored overseas markets, can offer better prices to the grower who is prepared to sell for cash. Would the Senate agree to driving such men out of a business in which they have become independent through their ability and perseverance.  [Extension of time granted.] 
Certainly I do; ft is not only our right, but our duty to do so. If that were not so, why shouldthe Senate have the power to disallow regulations within fifteen days of their being laid on the table? To my mind we have a sacred duty to examine such regulations, and I am surprised that the honorable senator should have asked such a question. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Brennan)  adjourned. 
[8.45]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
As the bill provides for the approval of expenditure on additions, new works, and buildings up to the 30th June, 1934, it is obvious that the money has all been expended. Provision is made in the annual appropriation act for a Treasurer's advance, which enables advances to be made to the various departments to meet unforeseen expenditure for which specific provision could not be made. Details of this expenditure are set out in a supplementary appropriation bill. The total amount involved in this instance is £45,981. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
[8.50].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
suggest to you, sir, and to the Senate, that as a matter of convenience the debate on the second reading of this bill should cover also the Western Australia Grant Bill and the Tasmania Grant Bill, as the subjects are interrelated. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - It has been a longestablished practice in the Senate that bills of a cognate character may be discussed simultaneously, and, as suggested by the Minister  (Senator Pearce),  that procedure may, with the concurrence of the Senate, be . adopted in this instance. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.In moving . that the Estimates and Budget Papers be printed, I indicated that the Government intended to provide special grants to South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania for the current financial year. On the recommendation of the. Commonwealth Grants Commission special grants were made to these States in respect of the financial year 1934-35. The amounts included in this bill and the other two measures to come before the Senate are in accord with the further recommenda tions of that commission. These amounts and the amounts for last year are as follows :  - 

<graphic href="147332193510224_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

For the information of honorable senators, I submit a table showing the history of special grants to the three Statesconcerned - 

<graphic href="147332193510224_29_1.jpg"></graphic>

In coming to a decision with regard to grants to these States for the present financial year, the Government had the benefit of two years' examination of their positions by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
The first report of the commission may be summarized as follows: - 
It attempted, in the first place, to place a value upon the various financial disabilities of the States which might justify grants - including disabilities from federation (e.g., the tariff) and inferior natural resources - but reached the conclusion that this method was impracticable. 
It then approached the subject from the view-point of State budgets reflecting the sum total of all- disabilities from which these States laboured. 
The principle was adopted that, the claimant States should receive grants which would make it possible for them to function with reasonable effort at a standard not appreciably below that of the other States. 
The average deficit of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland for 1932-33 was takenas the standard, and, after making adjustments up or down to bring the claimant States somewhere near the average for social services, administration, taxation, &amp;c, and also making some deductions for past mistakes, the commission recommended finally the following grants for 1934-35, which were approved by Parliament: - 

<graphic href="147332193510224_30_2.jpg"></graphic>

In its second report relating to grants for the year 1935-36, the commission has examined the position of the claimant States at much greater length. The report shows that the commission has spared no pains in an endeavour to arrive at an equitable measurement of the assistance that should be rendered to Claimant States. Doubtless, honorable senators have studied the second report, but I should like to refer to some of its main features. First, the commission -adheres, in effect, to the principle of its first report, and recommends grants based on the relative budget positions so as to -enable claimant States "to function at a reasonable standard with an effort appropriate to their particular situations." It adds that the adverse effects of federal policy are not, in themselves, grounds for assistance, and that whatever the federal policy may be, a State has no claim for assistance if it is in a good financial position. Secondly, the simple average of Victoria and Queensland is taken as the " normal standard " upon which to calculate the grants. New South Wales is omitted, because, in comparison -with the other States, it has so many abnormal features. Last year New South Wales was included in arriving at the normal deficit, and some of the other normal standards, excepting principally social services. In the case of South Australia and Western Australia, certain deductions are made for past mistakes. The grants are calculated on the basis of State budget results for 1933-34. The Government is anxious that, in order to avoid the necessity for annual revision, these special grants should be placed upon a more permanent "basis. In its second report, the corn- mission gave further consideration to this matter, and expressed the following views : - 
It is certain that no fixed grant could bc determined equitably for a long term of years. We have not found any satisfactory method of doing so, even for a short term, but will give the matter fuller consideration in our next report, when the possibility of devising an automatic sliding scale will also be discussed. 
As already mentioned, the grants recommended for 1935-36 have been based on the budget figures for 1933-34. The commission pointed out that the figures for the financial year, 1934-35, would not be available in time to permit a proper investigation and calculation of the grants to be made on the basis Df the figures for that year. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
[9.4]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this measure is to grant financial assistance amounting to £500,000 to the States of- New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and Western Australia. The object of this assistance is to help in the reduction of State deficits. In the recent years of depression, State finances have suffered more severely than Commonwealth finance. The aggregate deficits of the States were : 1931-32, £18,400,000 ; 1932-33, £8,220,000; 1933-34, £6,870,000; 1934-35, £3,800,000. In the same period, the Commonwealth Government had excess receipts, namely: 1931-32, £1,314,000; 1932-33, £3,546,000; 1933-34, £1,301,000; 1934-35, £711,000. 
The financial position in recent years has, however, been abnormal. Last year, when the excess of receipts was £6,160,000, the Parliament approved of £2,000,000 being granted to the States, and of £4,160,000 being appropriated for defence purposes. The £2,000,000 granted to the States was intended partly for budget relief and partly for unemployment relief, hut no conditions were imposed on the States. Actually, about £1,700,000 was applied to budget relief, and the balance to relief of unemployment. As was stated at the time, this £2,000,000 was a non-recurring payment, as it was drawn from the fund resulting from fortuitous receipts of the past. At the recent meeting of the Loan Council the subject of finance was discussed with the States and, in a desire to help their budgets, the 'Commonwealth Government offered to make a payment of £500,000 to the States out of the excess receipts for 1934-35. Tasmania stated that it did not desire to participate in the proposed grant. The £500,000 was allocated approximately on a population basis, the amount for each State being: New South Wales, £205,000; Victoria, £140,000; Queensland, £75,000; South Australia, £45,000; Western Australia, £35,000; total, £500,000. With this assistance the estimates of deficits of the States, according to the budgets brought down for the current year, are: New South Wales, £1,750,000; Victoria, £435,000; Queensland, £1,162,000; Western. Australia, £56,000; Tasmania, not available. South Australia is budgeting for a surplus of £1,000. The total net deficits of the States, excluding Tasmania, are estimated to be £3,402,000. I repeat that this £500,000 is a non-recurring payment, as it arises from the excess receipts of last year. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Col- lings)  adjourned. 
[9.9]. - In moving - 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I desire to make a statement for the information of honorable senators on the Italo-Abyssinian. dispute. The position in regard to sanctions is as follows: - 
Proposal I. - Arms sanction. - As previously indicated, this sanction was accepted by the Commonwealth Government, and action was taken on the 17th October to put it into effect by administrative instruction of the Department of Trade and Customs under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations 1935. The first schedule of the regulations covering all the arms, munitions and war material which could possibly be exported from Australia was made operative, but technically this list does not coincide with the completed list now received from the League Co-ordination Committee. This list, is as follows: - 
Category 1. 
1 ) Rifles and carbines and their barrels. 
Machine guns, automatic rifles and machine pistols of all calibres and their barrels. 
Guns, howitzers and mortars of all calibres, their mountings, barrels and recoil mechanisms. 
Ammunition for the arms enumerated under (1) and (2) above, filledand unfilled projectiles for the arms enumerated under (3) above, and prepared propellent charges for these arms. 
Grenades, bombs., torpedoes,- and mines filled or unfilled and apparatus for their use or discharge. 
Tanks, armoured vehicles and armoured trains. Armour of all kinds. 
Category 2. 
Vessels of war of all kinds, including air craft carriers and submarines. 
Category 3. 
Aircraft assembled or dismantled, both heavier and lighter than air, and their propellers or air screws, fuselages, aerial gun mounts and frames, hulls, tail units and undercarriage units. 
Aircraft engines. 
Category 4. 
Revolvers and automatic pistols of weight in excess of 1 lb.6 oz. (630 grammes) and ammunition therefor. 
Category 5. 
1 ) Flame blowers and all other projectors used for chemical or incendiary warfare. (2)Mustard gas, lewisite, ethydichlorarsine, methyldichlorarsine and all other products destined for chemical or incendiary warfare. 
Powder for war purposes and explosives. 
Consequently, an amending regulation is now being prepared to cover the completed list. 
A new proposal was adopted by the Co-ordination Committee on the 19th October, and was transmitted to Australia by wireless from Geneva on the 20th October. This proposal is an extension of the application, of paragraph 2 of the arms sanction, namely - 
The governments of - the Members of the League of Nations will prohibit immediately the exportation, re-exportation or transit to Italy or Italian possessions of arms, munitions and implements of war enumerated in the attached list. 
The following articles as regards their exportation and re-exportation to Italy and Italian possessions will accordingly be prohibited: - 
Horses, mules, donkeys, camels and all other transport animals. 
Rubber, (c)Bauxite, aluminium and alumina ( aluminium oxide), iron ore and scrap iron. Chromium, manganese, nickel, titanium, tungsten, vanadium, their ores and ferro alloys (and also ferro molybdenum, ferro silicon, ferro silico, manganese and ferro silicon, manganese, aluminium ) . Tin and tin ore. 
List (c) includes forms of the minerals and metals mentioned and their ores, scrap and alloys. 
the governments of the Members of the League of Nations will take such steps as may be necessary to secure that the articles mentioned in paragraph (i) above exported to countries other than Italy or Italian possessions will not be reexported directly or indirectly to Italy or to Italian possessions. 
The measures provided for in paragraphs (i) and (ii) above are to apply to contracts in course of execution. 
Goods  en route  at the time of imposition of the prohibition will be excepted from its operation.' In giving effect to this provision, governments may for convenience of administration fix an appropriate date, having regard to the normal time necessary for transport to Italy or Italian possessions, after which goods will become subject to the prohibition. 
Having regard to the importance of collective and so far as possible simultaneous action in regard to the measures recommended, each government is requested to inform the Co-ordination Committee, through the Secretary-General, as soon as possible and not later than the 28th October, of the date on which it could be ready to bring these measures into operation. The Committee of Coordination will meet on the 31st October for the purpose of fixing in the light of replies received the date of the coming into force of the said measures. The Commonwealth Government has decided that action will be taken to bring this extended list of prohibited arms, munitions and implements of war exports to Italy under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations 1935. 
Proposal III. was also adopted on the 19th October by the Co-ordination Committee. This proposal deals with the prohibition of all imports from Italy or Italian colonies, with certain exceptions, by Members of the League. It is as follows :  - 
The governments of the Members of the League of Nations will prohibit the importation into their territories of all goods (other than gold or silver bullion and coin) consigned from or grown, produced or manufactured in Italy or Italian possessions from whatever place arriving. 
Goods grown or produced in Italy or Italian possessions which have been subjected to some process in another country and goods manufactured partly in Italy or Italian possessions and partly in another country will be considered as falling within the scope of the prohibition unless 25 per cent, of the value of the goods at the time when they left the place from which they were last consigned is attributable to processes undergone since  the goods left Italy or Italian possessions. 
Goods the subject of existing contracts will not be excepted from the prohibition. 
Goodsen  routeat  the time of imposition of the prohibition will be excepted from its operation. In giving effect to this provision, governments may for convenience of administration fix an appropriate date, having regard to thenormal time necessary for transport from Italy, after which goods will become subject to the prohibition. 
Personal belongings of travellers from Italy or Italian possessions may also be excepted from its operation. 
As in the case of the other sanctions, governments are to inform the Coordination Committee by the 28th October of the date when the measures could be brought into operation. This question is now receiving consideration by the Government, and a decision will be announced immediately it is reached. 
It was previously announced that Proposal II., dealing with financial sanctions, had already been accepted in principle by the Commonwealth Government. Draft legislation to give effect to the five financial measures enumerated in the proposal is now being prepared. Proposal III. may, however, affect the nature of the legislation to be submitted to Parliament. 
was loud in his praise of the work performed by these two bodies. I feel sure that the smaller States will have something to say about this proposed alteration as it appears that their representation, already small, will be further reduced. Western Australia will have only one representative instead of two as at present, and South Australia and Tasmania will probably be affected similarly. The permanent committee to advise the new council will consist of the Directors of Agriculture in the various States and whilst I do not question their qualifications, it must not beforgotten that they arc the servants of the respective governments and are not, themselves, in any way connected with primary production. Thus their recommendations will influence the policy of the new council, and the change will lead to a large measure of government control of the industry. This will be an undesirable state of affairs. If more producer representatives on the board are deemed necessary, why not leave the council as at present constituted and add to it three or more representatives of the producers? Definitely the Dairy Export Control Board, which body understands marketing problems and has proved its worth, should be permitted to carry on its good work. Additional producer representatives could be appointed, instead of wantonly destroying this body, and setting up in its stead a board so constituted as to make its success problematical. I also direct attention to the following motion which was carried at the annual meeting of the Australian Dairy Council held in Sydney the week before last- 
That this meeting views with surprise the action of the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  in accepting the recommendation of the Australian Agricultural Council to abolish the Australian Dairy Council in view of the assurance given by him at the National Dairy Conference held in Sydney in April last that the council would he allowed to continue to function in consideration of the effective work that it had done on behalf of the dairying industry of . Australia ; this council protests against the recommendation being given effect to, and, further, this council considers that the proposed representation of the new body , suggested is totally inadequate to efficiently represent the various phases of the industry. 
The representatives from all States, with the exception of New South Wales, voted in favour of this motion.I do not know why the Mother State dissented. I hope that  Senator Hardy,  in his position as Leader of Country party senators, will prevail upon his friends in New South Wales to adopt a more federal view of the dairying industry and use his influence to see that the representation of the three smaller States is not reduced. It is,I think, necessary to impress upon the New South Wales section of the dairying industry that the smaller States are dissatisfied with the proposed alterations, and will have something to say about it. My State committee, which consists of six members - two representing the cooperative manufacturers, one proprietary manufacturer and three producers' representatives who are themselves producers in a big way - instructed its representative to attend the committee meeting of the council and oppose its suggested disbandment. The dairying industry in Western Australia is most emphatic in its view that the present dairy council should be allowed to continue its good work. If, as has been suggested by the originators of the proposed alterations, the Dairy Products Export Control Board should be more representative of the producers, the position may bo met by adding three more producers to the board. It passes my understanding why the present Dairy Council should receive the encomiums of the Minister for Commerce one week and be informed, a few weeks later, that steps were being taken to abolish it. I urge the Assistant Minister to bring my representations before the Minister for Commerce, and I appeal to honorable senators to assist me in defeating the proposed alteration of the constitution of the Australian Dairy Council, because the change will be definitely prejudicial to the interests of the smaller States. 
.  - I have been informed that when I was. speaking this afternoon to the motion for the disallowance of Statutory Rule No. 29 made under the Dried Fruits Export Control Act, I said that the regulation was made before I was in my present position in the Ministry. If I said that, it was inaccurate. What I had intended to say was that I was not in the Ministry when the act, under which the regulations were made, was passed. With regard to the remarks of  Senator Allan  MacDonald, if the honorable senator will supply me with an advance proof of his speech, I shall have pleasure in bringing it under the notice of the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  and if I am in a position to. supply him with any information on the subject, I shall be glad to do so. 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Inquiries arc being made, and replies will he furnished as soon as possible, to  Senator Brand's  inquiries as  to the future employment of temporary returned soldier linesmen and apprentice linesmen on  a  fifty-fifty basis and also the number of uncompleted applications for the instalment of telephones inVictoria. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that in the Loan Appropriation (Unemployment Relief) Act 1935, provision is made for £100,000 for afforeutation work in Western Australia? 
Ifso, was this vote conditional on the Western Australian Government finding a similar sum for thesame purpose? 
Was there a further condition attached to this vote, that of the total amounts provided by the Commonwealth and State, 20 per cent, was to be used in absorbing in employment youths under 21 years of age? 
If there were such conditions, have they been observed? 
If not, why not ? 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes, but on the representations of Western Australia that it would be impracticable to comply with this condition, owing to the limited number of youths available the Commonwealth agreed, subject to the trustees of the forestry fund (one of whom, is a representative of the Commonwealth) being satisfied that all reasonable efforts are made to provide employment for such youths as may be able and willing to accept forestry work, to the unexpended portion of the 20 per centum allotted for employment of youths being used in general work under the forestry scheme. 
The condition referred to in 2 is being observed. In the absence of reports to the contrary from the trustees, who furnish periodical reports to the Commonwealth, it maybe assumed the condition referred to in 3 is also being observed. 
See answer to No.  4. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that Tasmania and King Island will shortly be connected with the mainland of Australia, and with each other, by telephone? 
Does not the same necessity exist in connexion with telephonic communication between Flinders Island and Tasmania? 
If so, will the Government consider the installation of radio-telephonic facilities between this important island and Tasmania at an early date? 
The answers are as follows: - 
Yes. 2 and 3. The department recognizes the desirability of establishing telephonic communication to all communities within the Commonwealth and is already pursuing a policy to that end, but it is not yet in. a position to make the connexion between Flinders Island and Tasmania. 
The Minister for Commerce states that information is being obtained, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible to  Senator 
B. Johnston as to the prices charged for superphosphate fertilizer and the analysis of such fertilizer in each State. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What is the landed cost of phosphate rock fromNauru at Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Hobart, Adelaide and Fremantle, respectively? 
Phosphate rock from Nauru is delivered at the ports of discharge in the several States of the Commonwealth at the same price, which, at present, is 32s.6d. per ton. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that refusal has been given to the request for registration for transmission through the post of the publication,  War, What For? 
If so, why? 
The replies are as follows :  - 
and 2. The publication in question is ineligible for registration for transmission through the post as a newspaper, as it is deemed to have been issued by, on behalf of, or in the interests of, an unlawful association. 
In view of the speech delivered yesterday by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  in introducing this bill, the members of the Opposition do not intend to oppose it. Naturally we should like to know when these annual requests by the less populous States for assistance are likely to cease, and when an attempt will be made to place grants to claimant States on something approaching a proper basis. If that were done these States would know where they stood, and would have a better opportunity to arrange their financial affairs over a longer period. I understand that the Government is not likely to consider any suchaction . at the moment, but those charged with the responsibility of determining the disabilities of claimant States and the compensation to be granted should consider means of placing the whole business on a better footing, so that certain State governments will not ' have to appear annually as mendicants asking for relief. We shall not. offer any opposition to this bill or to the cognate measures to be discussed simultaneously. 
This measure gives honorable senators an excellent opportunity to examine, not only the working of federation over the last 35 years, but also the relationship existing between the States and the Commonwealth. Surely there is something of greater importance connected with this bill than merely monetary grants to the States. I admit that the amount to be voted to each State concerned is of vital importance; but the basis of the grant and the reasons for it are of greater importance. When the Senate discusses the subject covered by the bill it should study the working of the federal system during the last 35 years. Honorable senators will agree that federation has not proved in practice the ideal it was thought to be at its inception. We have only to study the structure of the Commonwealth as we know it to-day to realize that the system of federation is beginning to crack. For instance in Western Australia there is a movement which is directly leading that State in the direction of secession from the Commonwealth. 
I am not likely to debate the secession movement at this juncture) but it is evident that Western Australia is dissatisfied with its relations with the Commonwealth. 
That is a subject which can be debated later. Coming eastward from Western Australia to South Australia we find feelings of dissatisfaction slowly moving over the political landscape, and an increasing number of complaints being launched by South Australia against the Commonwealth. The same thing is happening in Tasmania. In fact in every State with the exception of New South Wales and Victoria there seems to be a never-ending complaint against the federal system. In these circumstances is it not right that we should examine the cause of the difficulties which exist instead of dealing with effects? We should determine whether it is not possible to hold the scales more equitably between the Commonwealth and the States. 
That is from a monetary view-point; but I submit that it is impossible to effect a compromise or cure an evil merely by monetary awards. We must have something more stable if the Commonwealth is to survive. Without detracting from any of the great divisions of industry I should like to examine the actual representation in the Commonwealth Parliament to show how such representation operates, and how it actually affects Commonwealth legislation.I submit that in spite of the claims of those supporting secondary industries we must still recognize that Australia is undoubtedly a primary producing country. I do not challenge for a moment the importance of  secondary industries; I am myself engaged in secondary production. I am not one of those who wish to discount the value of or to destroy secondary industries by the lowering of customs duties. I recognize that secondary and primary industries must grow up side by side, and that the scales have to be held evenly between these two important divisions of production. We must, however, ask - Who is holding the scales and who is responsible for framing legislation which can so vitally influence production? Federal legislation affects economically the structure of Australia in every degree. We must also ask ourselves, whether the representation in this Parliament is sufficiently diverse to hold the scales evenly between these two great divisions of production. The Leader of the Opposition has often said that when we contend that primary production is of greater importance than secondary production, we are merely taking refuge behind statistical returns. When figures are quoted about primary production some honorable senators ask whether the fishing and timber-getting industries can bc regarded as secondary or primary. Until recently it was practically impossible to say which they were, but at a meeting of statisticians representative of the whole Commonwealth, that matter was decided. We find that, in 1933-i34, secondary production in Australia was valued at £129, 091,000, and primary production at £169,082,000. Only by such a comparison can we draw the deadline between the 'two divisions of production, and view this problem in its true perspective. Can there, then, be any doubt that Australia  is still predominantly a rural nation? Admitting that fact, is it not reasonable ro contend that the two divisions of production should be represented in both chambers of this Parliament, on a somewhat similar basis? Even if mining production is classified as secondary, the total value of the primary production in Australia in. 1933-34 was £143,991,000, exclusive of forests and fisheries, as compared with a total value of £129,091,000 for secondary production. Putting aside political prejudices, let us examine the representation in this Parliament of these two great divisions of production. I wish it to be clear that, when I re fer to industrial seats, I do not indict the constituents of such seats as being anti-Australian, nor do I suggest that they are indifferent to the welfare of the rural community. However, I contend that, because of their environment, becaus, perhaps, their children and they themselves work in secondary industries, such electors are inclined to believe that secondary and not primary industries are the real mainstay of Australia. Some seats can be classed as straight-out industrial seats; others can be said to be border-line seats,. and that the election of their representatives is ultimately decided by the votes of people engaged in secondary industry. 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - Honorable senators represent States, not electorates. 
I shall deal with that aspect of the matter. Of the 28 representatives of Kew South Wales electorates in the House of Representatives, sixteen represent constituencies which are dominated by a massed population; ten honorable members represent electorates in Victoria which can be definitely classed as constituencies with a massed population, and there are three seats in South Australia, two in Western Australia, and two in Tasmania of a similar nature.  I repeat that, when I classify a seat as an industrial constituency, I regard it as one which is influenced by a massed population; I do not indict the constituents in such seats as being anti-Australian, but simply suggest that, because of the surroundings in which they live, they unconsciously must lean towards the secondary division of production rather than towards the primary division, howeversympatheticthey may be generally towards the latter. Of the electorates represented in another place, nine in New South Wales, seven in Victoria, two in South Australia two in Western Australia., five in Queensland, and two in Tasmania are definitely rural in character. In this comparison I also classify border-line seats, namely, those in which, owing to the system of preferential voting, the return of a representative is finally determined by the influence of a massed population. Of such seats, there are three in New South Wales, three in Victoria, two in South Australia, one in Western Australia, two in Queensland, and one in 
Tasmania. From these figures it will be seen -that members of the House of Representatives can be divided, broadly, into two divisions - one representing electorates containing a massed population, and the other representing electorates which are of a rural character. On this basis, 48 of the total 75 members represent seats influenced by a massed population, and only 27 represent purely rural populations. If these figures are studied in conjunction with my earlier comparison of the relative importance of primary and secondary industries in this country, we must admit that a readjustment of the representation of these two divisions should be effected to give rural populations fairer representation in this Parliament. Let us examine and consider the changes that have occurred with the growth of federation. We have to assume that federation was an acceptable instrument even to Western Australia in 1901. Why is it not acceptable to that State in 1935 ? 
That may have been so; but, speaking generally, the broad principle of federation was accepted by the people of that State. Let us now review the population figures for the capital cities in 1901. Here, again, I point to the increasing influence which massed populations have exerted on the election of members of the House of Representatives. I submit the following figures showing the growth of population in the capital cities since 1901, when the States federated and the position to-day: - 
It is evident that the greater concentration of the population in the cities has, ou the basis of one man one vote, given greater voting power to the cities at the expense of rural areas. 
At the moment .1 am not concerned with other countries. The following table proves my contention that the concentration of population in metropolitan areas has throughout the 35 years of federation given greater voting power to the cities at the expense of rural districts : - 
Now let us consider how the rural constituencies have been affected by the centralization of activities in the cities and the consequent concentration of the population there. In 1901, there were sixteen rural seats in New South Wales, compared with twelve to-day. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J.  Lynch). - As the fiscal system of  a  country is inextricably interwoven with the distribution of its population, I rule that the honorable senator is in order. 
The following table shows clearly how the concentration of population in the cities has reduced the voting strength of the country: - 
The comparison depends on the interpretation given to " rural seat ", " border seat " and " industrial seat ". 
I am showing that the federation is unbalanced, because 
I lie concentration of population has weakened the primary producing States. The allocation of representation between city and rural interests is hopelessly disproportionate, and must influence legislation affecting primary production. Some corrective system will have to be devised. The Commonwealth is lopsided. A. true federation is the linking of a number of units for their common good, and it is essential that the component units should have an equal say and that the influence of one unit should not react to the detriment of another. Is it not true that the complaint of Western Australia is that it is over-ruled by the power and domination of the eastern States? The Commonwealth is like a boat with all the passengers on one side. 
We should clean our own place first. When they consider the distribution of population in Australia, honorable senators will surely have a broad enough outlook to admit that the principle of one man one vote ultimately gives the control of legislation to the more densely populated areas. That is the burden of my complaint. The interests of South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, and, to a certain extent, Queensland, are adversely affected by the influence exercised by New South Wales, and, to a slightly lesser degree, Victoria. New South Wales has grown so powerful as to influence the conduct of Commonwealth affairs to the detriment of the other members of the federation. It is not the fault of the Government, it is not the fault of one political party, or the fault of the Senate that this condition operates. It is due to the political evolution of the Commonwealth, caused by the concentration of population in the eastern States, in the last 35 years. 
New South Wales has a population greater than any other State. Its papulation is greater by one- third than that of Victoria, and who can say that, on the principle of one man one vote, New South Wales, therefore, is not politically stronger than Victoria. Its population is three times greater than that of Queensland, and yet my statement that New South Wale3 is politically powerful is queried. The population of New South Wales is four and a half times greater than that of South Australia and six times greater than that of Western Australia. 
I am not. I am above State parochialisms. I am here to represent not only the State of New South Wales, but also the Commonwealth. 
If I see any failure, whether constitutional or economic, resulting from political evolution, or from any other cause, I maintain that 1 have the light to do my utmost to remedy it. My mouth should not be sealed just because I represent one State. My attitude should be national. The population of New South Wales is thirteen times greater than that of Tasmania. Honorable senators should have a sufficiently broad outlook to admit that New South Wales must be the dominating Sta.te in view of the population ratios which I have just outlined. 
We shall talk about that later. I now desire to call attention to the production characteristics of the States, making a distinction between secondary and primary. Analysis of the production bulletins shows that 83 per cent, of the total production of Westtern Australia is by primary industries, and that State produces only 4 per cent, of the total Austraiian secondary production. Is it not reasonable, therefore, to affirm thatWestern Australia is predominantly a rural State? Of the total production of Tasmania 71 per cent, is primary, yet that State contributes only 2.5 per cent, of the total Australian secondary production. Seventy-five .per cent, of the South Australian production is primary, yet it is responsible for only 6 per cent, of the total Australian secondary production. Of the total Queensland production 76 per cent, is primary but that State produces only 4 per cent, of the total Australian secondary production. No one could suggest, therefore, that the interests of these four States are other than predominantly rural. In Victoria "we find an entirely different condition operating. Victoria contributes 34 per cent, of the total Australian secondary production. While it has large primary producing interests, it is only reasonable to draw the conclusion that it must be influenced to .some extent by its very considerable secondary production. As a producer of secondary goods, it is outclassed by New South Wales. Fortythree per cent, of .the total Australian secondary production comes from New South Wales. We have, therefore, four predominantly rural States and two secondary-producing States. New South Wales and Victoria are responsible for 78 per cent, of the total secondary production in Australia. 
By it3 voting power in the House of Representatives New South Wales has become a predominant factor in Commonwealth legislation. The seats in that chamber are distributed as follows: New South Wales, 28; Victoria, 20; Queensland 16; South Australia, 6; Western Australia, 5; and Tasmania, 5. How incongruous it is that the Commonwealth Parliament, with a lower .House composed in this way, should be endeavouring to legislate for four States whose interests are overwhelmingly rural and two States to which secondary industry is vital. If we ignore the influence of political parties, we must admit that the New South Wales members in the House of Representatives could, if they so desired, out-vote the whole of the members for the rural-producing States of Western Australia., South Australia, Queensland and Tasmania. 
I am aware of that. My remarks apply particularly to the voting strength of the respective States in the House of Representatives, although there have been times when the Senate has been much interested in the happenings of another place. I can well understand the amazement of some honorable senators at the facts which- J. am giving to the Senate, emphasizing the unequal growth of strength in the federal structure. 
My purpose now is to show how. after an experience of 35 years in the working of the federal system, it may be possible to balance the inequalities that have appeared. I have said that New South Wales could, in the House of Representatives, out-vote the combined strength of Western Australia, South Australia, Queensland and Tasmania. It may be objected that it is impossible to visualize a situation in which the rural members for New South Wales in the House of Representatives would combine with members representing industrial constituencies in that State for the purpose of passing legislation which might affect, prejudicially, the smaller rural States of the Commonwealth. That, 1 admit, would be a perfectly logical objection to take to my suggestion that the inequalities may be removed by the course which I have indicated. If, however, we analyse still further the char"acter of the representation for New South Wales we shall discover that 19 of the 28 members represent industrial constituencies or constituencies in which the massed vote predominates. The population of industrial Sydney is greater than that of all Queensland, is double that of South Australia, three times thai of Western Australia and six times that of Tasmania. Actually it is greater than the combined populations of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. Thus, on the principle of one man, one vote, it has a predominating influence in the federal structure. Let us see what the representatives of these nineteen industrial seats can do in the House of Representatives. Since they number only one less than the whole of the representation of Victoria, and only one less than the combined representation of Western Australia, Tasmania and Queensland, they could out-vote, if they so desired, the three rural States mentioned and, but for the restraining influence of this chamber, determine the character of legislation vitally affecting the interests of those rural States. 
For the purpose of argument I am ignoring it for the moment. The figures I have quoted show that at least in the House of Representatives one State has become so powerful that it may - I do not say that it does - have a dominating influence on federal legislation. Is not this the complaint which we hear so frequently from Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania? This being so, is it not only Logical that, in order to remove the existing inequalities, that State should be split up into a number of States? That is what the New South Wales Country party, on whose behalf I am, at the moment, speaking, has in view and advocated even ' before I became a member of this chamber. The movement was begun by  Dr. Lang  when Port Phillip separated from New South Wales and was established as a separate colony, and later when Queensland achieved selfgovernment. That is now the objective of the New South Wales Country party. 
Whenever we advocate the subdivision of New South Wales we are, quite unjustifiably, accused of parochialism. We are not thinking solely about the development of the Riverina  or  what may happen in New England. Those aspects of the new States movement are more or less side issues. But we are concerned with the national conception of the new States movement, because we believe that only by this course is it possible to remove the existing inequalities in the federal system. 
How will the creation of new States correct the present situation? I have discussed this matter on several occasions with  Senator Johnston,  and have pointed out to him that if New South Wales were subdivided into three States, if each of the three States were able to send five rural members to the House of Representatives, and return six rural senators, the altered representation would appreciably affect the char acter of Commonwealth legislation, and bo beneficial to the federation as a whole. Some objectors appear to think that we may not have the cooperation of the smaller States in this movement ; but when I point to the announced objective, namely, the freeing of rural States from domination by the industrial representation of Sydney, surely the proposal should receive a reasonable amount of consideration from the smaller States. 
I have no desire to do that. In the earlier portion of my remarks I emphasized that Australia is a primary producing country, but that rural constituencies are in a hopeless minority in the National Parliament. My suggestion to carve the big and cumbersome State of New South Wales into three States, is the only practical solution of the difficulty. 
If  Mr. Arthur  Rae were still a member of this chamber he would at once raise the cry of man versus acres, as an objection to my proposal. I have taken some pains to analyse th.1 present position and the effect on rural constituencies, of the principle of one man one vote, although I admit that under the Electoral Act, the Commissioner has a discretion to vary by 20 per cent, the quota for federal constituencies in order to preserve what is known as a community of interest. Wu do not notice in State constituencies the same rigid observance of the principle of one man one vote. For instance, the number of electors in th" Barcoo electorate of Queensland, a rural district, is only 6,137, whereas the totafor  Brisbane is 10,744. Wagga, a  typicarural  constituency in New South W.?&gt; has 13,000 voters, and Bankstown, a typical city constituency in the same State. 21,469 voters. Gippsland East, a rural constituency in Victoria, has 7,126 voters, and St. Kilda a city constituency, 26,16$. What justification is there for a mo"rigid observance of the principle, which operates against compensating quotas in the Commonwealth Parliament than in State legislatures? But if I advocated an alteration of the quota in favour of country constituencies, what would be the result? In the House of Representatives there are 48 members representing what 1 would regard as massed population swats. Would they be prepared to give improved voting strength to country constituencies? 
Under the Electoral Act, the Commissioner has very limited powers. Certainly he has not the authority to fix, for a city constituency, a quota four times greater than that for a country constituency. 
Who will deny that it. would be a good thing for the Senate if as the result of the subdivision of New South Wales there were increased representation of rural interests in this chamber ? 
The Commonwealth has the right to admit a new State on such terms and under such conditions as it thinks fit. I would be willing to appear before the bar of the Senate on behalf of the Riverina, knowing, as I do, its economic assets and the population it maintains, to ask that it should have representation equal to that of Tasmania. 
We have been optimists for many years, and are likely to remain optimistic, because we believe that the large and important rural areas in New South Wales must eventually secure self-government. Why should wo not have the right to send six senatorsto this chamber? Would it be denied on the grounds that the Riverina does not possess sufficient economic assets? Only recently a royal commission, which tabulated these assets, showed that the Riverina consists of approximately 81,210 square miles, and that it is larger in area than Victoria or Tasmania. Surely, if the area of the Riverina is greater than that of the States mentioned, and it were constituted a new State, it would be entitled to the same representation in this chamber as South Australia and Tasmania! It may be said that the population is smaller than that of other States; but that is incorrect. The population of the Riverina is 316,000, or greater than the population of Tasmania, and nearly equal to that of Western Australia. Could it be said that such a new State should not have the right to the same representation as other States? The Riverina district produces more cattle - again I am quoting from the report of the royal commission - than South Australia or Tasmania. It produces more oats than Queensland, South Australia, or Tasmania. It has more land under cultivation than Queensland or Tasmania, and it also has more sheep than either Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, or Tasmania. Those are the economic assets of the Riverina. If we are to be guided by economic assets, we should remember that at least two areas in New South Wales are each entitled to be represented by six senators in this chamber. Why should not these larger States, which are dominating legislation in the Commonwealth sphere, be subdivided? In other countries equal in size to Australia there has been evolution on similar lines. The United States of America commenced with eight States, but subsequently increased the number to 48. In 1850 New South Wales extended from Cape York to Tasmania, but by gradual evolution Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland became separate States. Why should such evolution cease? Are we to accept the boundaries of the States decided upon many years ago? Were those boundaries fixed on economic consideration, or on a community of interest? At that time there was no regard for community of interest ; the boundaries were based on geographical features. Is it to be said that, regardless of economic development, or growth of population, the Riverina must remain an integral part of New South Wales, the boundaries of which were fixed 50 or 60 years ago? We submit that the time has arrived to subdivide New South Wales, and with that subdivision there must be additional representation in this chamber. I am sure that at least one of my colleagues will deal with this subject on somewhat similar lines. We realize  that there are constitutional difficulties associated with the creation of new States, but a royal commission investigated the assets of New South Wales and determined definitely that there were two areas in that State sufficiently large and economically important to have selfgovernment. Immediately we desire to proceed in the direction of securing selfgovernment we are denied our rights. If the Riverina and northern New South Wales can only secure self-government and representation in this Parliament by five members in the House of Representatives and six senators they would be able to assist the less populous States, in national rural legislation, and the troubles of Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania would then disappear. 
SenatorE.  B. JOHNSTON  (Western Australia) [4.11]. - I express  my  pleasure that the grant made to Western Australia this year has been increased by £200,000 making the amount £800,000. Undoubtedly this will be a great help to the Western Australian Government, which controls a State large in area, but with a comparatively small population, in its difficult task of endeavouring to balance its budget. I have read very carefully the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission which lays down certain principles  for  dealing with State grants which cannot pass unchallenged. These principles are causing a great deal of anxiety amongst the taxpayers in' the claimant States, and give rise to a certain amount of misgiving for the future. Before I deal with the new policy suggested in the commission's report, I desire to pay a tribute to the members of the commission for the thorough way in which they have done their work. I do not agree with the new policy embodied in the report or with the commission's conclusions, but I appreciate the thorough  and painstaking manner in which its members have done their work according to their lights. They have adopted the role of special pleaders for the  Commonwealth  Government. Many of their arguments are similar to those contained in  The Case for Union  - a book distributed extensively throughout the Commonwealth last year. It seems to me that the second report  of  the Commonwealth 
Grants Commission is largely a case for unification, and to such a policy I am opposed. Grants have been paid to certain States since 1925, and for eight years before the Commonwealth Grants Commission was appointed two years ago. These grants have always been regarded as compensation for disabilities imposed by federal policy, the worst of whichis the tariff. For the first five years of federation, a grant on a sliding scale was paid to Western Australia. I say, in all sincerity, that we could not have any one more qualified to express the opinions of successive Federal Governments than  the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  who, in opening the ministerial campaign in Western Australia on behalf of the Bruce-Page Government, priorto the federal elections in 1925, was reported in the  West Australian  of the 9th October, 1925, as having said - 
The Government of which I am a member took action to appoint a, Disabilities Commission to investigate theeffect of federation upon Western Australia .. . Itis undoubted that the finding of the ommission is that Western Australiaissuffering and has suffered severe disabilities as the result of federation . . . The CommonwealthGovernment after fully considering the position has decided to ask Parliament for authority to make a special grant this year of £450,000 which will be inclusive of the grant now paid. Although this proposal is for this year only, pending the holding of a conference with the State governments on Federal and State relations, to which I have already referred - 
I ask honorable senators to note the following significant words on federal policy in relation to State grants -  it is a recognition and an admission  by  the Commonwealth Government that the findings of the royal commission justify Western Australia's receiving that amount of financial compensation and  it  therefore establishes a basis upon which any decision as to future financial relationships shall rest. 
That was the basis upon which any decision as to the future financial relationship between the Commonwealth and  the  States should rest. The commission which conducted the first inquiry into the disabilities of Western Australia under federation was under the capable chairmanship of an ex-Treasurer of. the Commonwealth,  Mr. Higgs.  I do not know of any subsequent statement of ministerial policy by the representative of this or of any other Government that the disabilities arising out of federal policy are not to be the main factors to be considered in assessing grants to be paid to the less populous States.' The Commonwealth Grants Commission has adopted a different policy which will react seriously against the three claimant States. Paragraph 73 of the commission's second report reads - 
Some States arc certainly in serious  financial  difficulties. It must be made possible for them to function as States of the Commonwealth at some minimum standard of efficiency. It rests with the Commonwealth to make that standard as low as it pleases, to impose a task on the States as severe as it thinks proper. 
Paragraph 69 of the commission's report states -  
The only ground for this assistance is the inability of the State to carry on without it. It follows, then, that the adverse effects of federal policy - even the net effects - are not in themselves ground for assistance to the Government any more than they are to the people of a State. If in spite of the effects of federation the State can continue to function at what has been decided on as the minimum standard, there is no ground for assistance. 
I contend that the policy laid down in those two paragraphs of the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report is extremely important. It is opposed entirely to the conceptions of those who advocated federation, and I feel sure that if prior to their acceptance of the Commonwealth constitution the people had thought that such a policy would be adopted by the Federal Government federation would not have -been accepted by the smaller States. I object to this change of policy towards the smaller States; this Parliament and not a commission should decide whether such a change should be made. Furthermore, judging by statements made by the Prime Minister on the 26th April, 1933, when the bill constituting the Commonwealth Grants Commission was introduced, I feel certain that such a change of policy would not now be agreed to by Parliament. On that occasion  Mr. Lyons  said that the object of the Government in appointing the commission was to obtain a permanent method of meeting the needs of the smaller States instead of requiring their treasurers to go cap in hand each year to the Commonwealth.  Mr. Lyons  showed clearly that it was the policy of his Government to meet the needs of the smaller States instead of putting them on such a basis as was suggested by the commission in its statement that -   the adverse effects of federal policy- "-even the net effects - 'are not in themselves ground for assistance to the Government any more than they are to the people of a State. 
The commission has adopted a new policy opposed to that laid down by  Mr. Lyons.  I reiterate that such a change should not be made except by Parliament, and only then after it has given the matter the most mature consideration. I do not think that this Parliament would approve of such an alteration as has been effected by the States Grants Commission. 
The Government has not fulfilled its promise to give a degree of permanency to the grants to the smaller States. I am not oblivious to the difficulties and the uncertainty of conditions obtaining to-day, but I point out that the 1925 commission's grant to the smaller States were not only based on disabilities imposed on the smaller States by federation, but were made also for a term of five years. The grant to Western Australia was £450,000 for the first year and £300,000 for each of the following four years. It may 
Or  may not prove fortunate for Western Australia that the grant made last year was not fixed for a period of five years, because if that had been done, Western Australia would be £200,000 worse off this year. However, to protect the finances of the smaller States and to enable them to budget accurately it is essential that such grants should 'be assured for .a period of years. The present commission appears to have adopted annual inquiries as a policy. From its conclusions, which I have already quoted, it would appear that the smaller States not merely have to prove the extent of the disabilities they are suffering as a result of federation, but must now prove that they are so bankrupt that the only alternatives open to the Commonwealth are: (1) to exclude them from the federation, as stated in paragraph 74 of the commission's report: (2) to take over the States in risk of default and administer them as territories making grants of such amounts as would enable them to eke out an existence upon whatever standard the Commonwealth saw fit to impose. Speaking for myself and  a two  to one majority of the people of Western Australia, as revealed at the recent referendum, I say that the first alternative would be heartily welcomed by us. Such is the substance of the principles which the commission sets forth in paragraph 74 of its report. It also naively observes that the first alternative " would leave the Commonwealth responsible for the State's debts, so it could hardly be chosen as a practical alternative to a special grant ". I hope that this Government will indicate that it does not expect claimant States to become annual mendicants, as is suggested by the commission. Furthermore, I hope that this Government does not approve of the policy recommended by the commission, which appears to me to be opposed to precedent, unjust in its future incidence, and contrary to the policy laid down by  Mr. Lyons  two years ago. is the financial year of the States begins on the 1st July it is impossible for them to budget on a definite basis, when they do not know until September or October what the Commonwealth grant will be. For instance the commission's report this year was dated the 18 th September. I shall now refer to another instance in which the original policy of making grants to the smaller States has been departed from by the commission. The Leader of the Senate, in a notable speech with which I agreed entirely, and in which he announced that a grant of £450,000 would be made to Western Australia for the year 1925, said - 
The amount was not granted for the purpose of being splashed up in State enterprise or political adventures, but the Commonwealth expected it to be used to give relief in the directions indicated by the commission to those industries which, it has been proved, are suffering from the tariff or from the other conditions of federation that adversely affect Western Australia. One of these disabilities, the commission points out, is the present high rate of State income tax, particularly on the higher incomes, which is undoubtedly driving capital out of the State. 
That speech was welcomed by Western Australians, and the grants for that and succeeding years were used in accordance with the suggestion, almost direction, of the Commonwealth Government. However, because taxation was reduced in Western Australia, as the Bruce-Page 
Federal Government required, such action has been seized upon by the commission as evidence in support of its assertion; first that, " it cannot be said that Western Australia has made any special sacrifice to put her finances right " ; and secondly, as a reason for imposing a penalty upon Western Australia in the assessment of the grant payable to that State. That is an extraordinary situation. The State government adopted the suggestion to reduce taxation practically as a condition of that grant in 1925, yet to-day the commission appointed 'by this Government contends that for such action Western Australia should be heavily penalized. 
I said that, as a result of that grant being made in 1925, a reduction of 33 per cent, was made immediately in the rate of income tax. The commission also says that because for a number of years Western Australia's rate of tax has been lower than the average rate for other States it should be penalized heavily. Western Australia should have been rewarded and not penalized for complying with the Federal Government's wishes in this matter. As a result of the commission's attitude towards this reduction of taxes it would appear that Western Australia is to be fined to the amount of £270,000 a year, almost equal to the amount of the grant that the State enjoyed in ' 1925 and succeeding years on condition that its taxation -was reduced. It is the duty of the Government, and of the Minister who expounded its policy in Western Australia, to see that this penalty is not enforced. If the penalty imposed by paragraph 200 of the report were waived, the grant to Western Australia would be £1,070,000 instead of £800,000 a year, and I urge the Government to increase the grant accordingly. It is not right that that State should be penalized for having taken the action suggested by the BrucePage Government - a suggestion for which that Government was commended by the people of Australia generally. The total penalties imposed on Western 
Australia amount to £410,000 per annum, the amount in excess of £270,000 being due to alleged mistakes made by .the State in the settlement of its wheat areas, and in connexion with its group settlements. It may be that Western Australia has made mistakes in connexion with its group settlements; but, if so, the Commonwealth Government is a party to those mistakes. Indeed, that fact is recognized by the commission, which has reduced the penalty for those mistakes from 10 per cent, to 7 per cent, because of the Commonwealth Government's moral responsibility in this matter. But I cannot agree that Western Australia acted wrongly in opening up its wheat areas. In the circumstances which existed at the time, it acted properly. The commission is not justified in penalizing that State for opening up those areas, for they will play an important part in the development of the Commonwealth, and. will always carry a fairly large population. Notwithstanding the light nature of some soils, we now  have  wheat districts of a fertility equal to any in Australia enjoying a regular rainfall, and they will continue to produce large quantities of wheat and many sheep. 
Paragraphs 201 and 202 of the commission's report refer to the difficulties associated with the development of the north- western portion of Australia. I agree with .the commission's recommendation that the Commonwealth should assist the State in the development of that area. Reference is made in those paragraphs to the losses sustained by Western Australia in connexion with its State shipping services and the Wyndham freezing works. The north-western districts are so sparsely populated that, without a proper shipping service, the settlers there would find it difficult, if not impossible, to carry on. Because the Wyndham freezing works serve not only the north-western portion of Western Australia, but also the adjoining Commonwealth territory, the commission has recommended that the Commonwealth should undertake an expert investigation of that portion of Australia, with a view to ascertaining the best way to develop it. I hope that thu Government will act on that recommendation, and send expert officers of the 
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, or of the developmental branch, to report on the country. In paragraph 202 the commission states - 
If  favorable  results can be obtained by the expenditure of money on development, we suggest this as an appropriate form of assistance to Western Australia. The problem oi the north-west of Australia is very similar to that of the Northern Territory, on which the Commonwealth has spent a good deal of the money of the people of Australia. These two areas should be considered as one  problem. 
I am heartily in agreement with those recommendations. The population of Western Australia, is too small, and its area too large, for the State to develop its territory fully without generous assistance from the Commonwealth. In the interests of the safety of Australia, the resources of the whale of the northwest, including the Kimberley districts - mining, pastoral and agricultural - should be developed, and railways and harbours constructed. Federal assistance is required for the whole of this province from Carnarvon to Wyndham. I hope that the Government will give heed to the commission's recommendations in this connexion and find the necessary funds for the purpose. 
This bill, and the two cognate measures which are to follow, are based on the recommendations contained in the second report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I Shall refer to that, report only insofar as its affects Western Australia. It contains much of interest to every one who has the welfare of the  less-populous  States at heart. I compliment the commission on the skill, care and earnestness of its members, as evidenced in the report. It. has submitted a most valuable public document, which is of great interest to any one who seeks to understand the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States, and the direct and indirect effects of the Federal Constitution. Whilst a cursory reading of the report may not indicate clearly whether the conclusions arrived at by the commission are based entirely on known facts, assumption, or speculation, or on a combination of the three,' there can be little disagreement with the emphasis rightly placed upon essential factors. 
Dealing with the principles underlying its recommendations, the commission says that the relative financial position of the States must be the basis upon which grants are made; but it does not admit that that implies that all the States should be placed on an equal financial footing by means of grants. It points to the danger of abuses arising from such action; and of some State governments  in esse  and  in posse  we know that that is not impossible. On the other hand, we may derive some comfort from the commission's expressed conviction that there is no more evidence of extravagant expenditure on the part of the Commonwealth Government than on the part of State governments. The commission, expresses the opinion that, although certain legislation may benefit some members of the community at the expense of others, it must be assumed that it has been considered in the light of its effect on the community as a whole. That may be accepted as an axiom. 
The commission describes as controversial the economic effects of the tariff on Australia as a whole, and states that still more controversial are its effects on the separate States. It has hazarded a rough estimate in order to assist in arriving at the disadvantageous pressure of the tariff in certain instances. The commission, however, states definitely in paragraph 284 of its report that - 
On the basis then of the estimates of tariff  costs  made by South Australia and Western Australia, the conclusion is reached that the inferior position of all three claimant States is not due to the federal policy, but to other causes working within the limits imposed of necessity by a federation. 
The commission deprecates, rightly I think, a federation conducted on a bookkeeping system, and, for its own purposes, it elaborates a formula by means of which it has sought to arrive at the real disabilities to which the claimant States are subjected, having regard to a normal standard of efficiency, which it is considered, is required in order to enable the Commonwealth to function effectively as a whole. A postulate is then advanced that except under certain circumstances, which are beyond our consideration at the moment, the Commonwealth has no option but to go to the aid of a State, when a strict examination of its financial position shows no hope of its continued solvency except by special assistance. 
One reason given for the difficulties of Western Australia is the fall in the relative prices of wheat, and I would add wool, which though generally regarded as temporary may persist for many years. That, in my opinion, is the major reason, but associated with it is the large outlay of loan money on the development of newlands, money for which no adequate return can yet be foreseen. In that outlay the State has shouldered a burden which many years of comparative prosperity alone will lighten. Recognizing this, the commission says that it is certain that no fixed grant could be determined adequately for a long term of years, and it advocates the establishment of a tribunal which will have the position of Western Australia and the other parties to the federation perpetually under review, and enable it to recommend grants when they are shown to be required. Here indeed is a strong inducement to the Government to give early effect to its promise to resuscitate the interstate commission. The commission concludes its discussion of principles with the following words - 
We have found no ground for compensating the people of a State for disabilities due to federation or any other causes. Disabilities due to federal policy may be the cause of the inferior position of a State's finances, but a variety df other causes may have the Maine effect. We have left to a later chapter the question of determining the minimum standard and allow the possibility of this standard varying with the cause, but the dominating consideration is the State's comparative financial position, actual and potential.  This  consideration furnishes both the ground for a special grant and the data for determining its amount. 
Coming now to its findings and recommendations, the report reveals that for the purpose of arriving at the "normal standard" the commission has accepted the simple average of Victoria and Queensland, based on the figures for 1933-34. Dealing with Western Australia in detail, the report also reveals that the deficit for the year was the highest  per capita  of any State, being £4.53. whereas the normal was £1.04; costs of administration of certain stable departments were £34,000 above the normal ; the salaries of public servants on an automatic scale were 10 per cent, below normal, and the number of State employees, excluding railway and tramway employees, was, with South. Australia, the highest per thousand of the population of any part of the Commonwealth. This may be explained by the area involved. For social services which include education, health, hospitals and charities, law, order, and public safety, the average for all States is 64s. 9d.  per capita  and the figure forWestern Australia is 56s.11d. Regarding unemployment relief, consideration is given to the expenditure under this head by South Australia and Tasmania, but not to that by Western Australia. The reason for this distinction is not apparent. 
In the report, considerable space is devoted to the matter of taxation. With an index-figure of 100, Western Australia's taxable capacity in regard to all incomes is assessed at83. Local government taxation is set down at 31s. 9d. a head as against an average for the six States of 41s. 2d. In a general summary of the severity of taxation the report seeks to show that Western Australia is better off than all the other States with the exception of Victoria. In a final appreciation of all the factors, the commission allots £1,371,000 to Western Australia as the amount necessary to bring its comparable deficit to the normal standard. It proceeds then to deduct from that amount £54,000 for excess costs of administration, £152,000 for excess social services, £140,000 for mistakes, and £270,000 for taxation not imposed, leaving £759,000 which is brought up to £800,000 by credits attributable to adjustments not made by the central taxation office. The bill before the Senate is the Government's endorsement of the commission's conclusions and recommendations. 
I have already praised the whole of the report of the commission and I have said that it is difficult to quarrel with its line of reasoning. But I am unable to agree altogether with its deductions. I am indeed convinced that the time is ripe for the appointment of a permanent tribunal that will be able to keep in continuous touch with variations of Commonwealth and State finances. In effect the commission's basic finding approximates Western Australia's claim for a grant of £1,500,000 to relieve its disabilities, but the subsequent deductions are hardly justifiable. Why should a State be penalized for its advanced scale of social services when in these days we pride ourselves on the observance of a high standard of living. As regards costs of administration, it is possible that the commission has not attached sufficient weight to the difficulties encountered by any government carrying the responsibility of the enormous area contained within the boundaries of Western Australia. The charge of under-taxation suggests that the people and conditions are susceptible to bearing an increased burden, but political obstacles obtrude themselves, and no government will willingly imperil its existence or prospects by endeavouring to extract more from a community whose main sources of income have shrunk through bad seasons and worse prices. Nor am I able to see what is to be gained by taking into calculation the mistakes of past administrations. Such action suggests the establishment of a dangerous precedent which may have undesirable repercussions in the future. My own conclusion is that the amount of the grant to Western Australia should have been greater. I do not think that sufficient allowance has been made for the great developmental work that has been done in that 'State - that development is reflected in the  per capita  production of the community, which is higher than in any other State - or for the' need for conserving assets the value of which has been well established. The £800,000 which is to be granted to Western Australia, however, will help that State and I intend to support the bill. 
I cannot allow this opportunity to pass without making some observations regarding the speech delivered this afternoon by  Senator Hardy.  He went to a great deal of trouble in attempting to explain and substantiate a very old case. In fact, I was reminded of the passage in Plutarch, " The mountain was in labour, and lo, a mouse was born!" While the honorable senator was speaking, I wondered what he was actually trying to prove. He used a new phrase - "massed population representation" - in regard to which he adduced certain comparative statistics to prove that the representation of New South Wales in this Parliament was dominated by that section of the population which is identified with secondary production. He stated that the number of federal electorates in New South Wales whose interests were mainly concorned with secondary industry is sixteen. The honorable senator declined to tell us the names of those electorates, but I have gone through the list and have found that his statement was a misrepresentation of the situation. It is all very well for an honorable senator to classify electorates in divisions of primary production and secondary production, but unless we know the basis of the classification it is impossible to understand the argument that followed. I sought by interjection to get from  Senator Hardy  the names of the electorates that he has included in the sixteen, but he did not vouchsafe that information. Apparently, however, the honorable senator referred, among others, to Warringah. He must know that within the area of the Warringah electorate are many small landholders, in addition to the minor secondary industries, who are entitled to be represented in this Parliament and there are many such electorates. The honorable senator produced no evidence in support of his contention that the State of New South Wales is overbearing and most inconsiderate in its attitude towards the claims of the smaller States, that it is dominated by the secondary industries, and that it is neglectful of the large primary industries. What are the facts? In the Senate where States have equal repre-, sentation, New South Wales ' is represented by Senators Dein, MassyGreene, Cox, Macartney, Abbott, Hardy and myself. Senators Hardy and Abbott would have the people believe that they, and they only, represent the primary industries of New South Wales. That I flatly contradict.  Senator Massy-Greene,  for many years, has been allied with important rural industries in the northern portion of New South Wales, and  Senator Oox,  I suppose, belongs to one of the oldest-established families that settled on the land in that State. 
Yes, and country born, and the same can be said of  Senator Dein,  and myself. I expect that  Senator Hardy  was also born in the country, but for many years his interests have been closely allied with secondary industries. 
I deny that the New South Wales representatives in this chamber have neglected rural interests. The primary industries of the Commonwealth have always received sympathetic consideration in the Senate. I regret that  Senator Hardy  should have dwelt at such length on the massed-population representation in this Parliament. He merely directed attention to a phenomenon that is world-wide, and is not peculiar to Australia. Everywhere populations are converging upon the cities. 
I feel sure that an examination of the figures for the United States of America and a comparison of the populations in New York, Illinois, and Southern States will support my contention that even in that country the cities are becoming overdeveloped. I deny also that the problem may be solved in the manner indicated by  Senator Hardy.  The honorable gentleman's arguments are based on the false assumption that the interests of the minor States are not also the interests of the larger States. All that he has said is diametrically opposed to the principle of federation and national common sense. I very much regret that the honorable gentleman, influenced as he is by what I may term the technology of new Stateism and the psychology of country partyism, should have endeavoured to seduce honorable senators with a wrong reasoning.  Senator Hardy  is not satisfied with raising the cry of "city against country" but advocates "major States against the smaller States ". I make no apology as a senator representing New South Wales for my attitude to his proposal and I think I speak also on behalf of my fellow senators for that State. 

 - Senator Hardy having taken exception to the remark of  Senator Arkins,  I ask the honorable senator to withdraw  it. 
.- While listening to the dissertation on newStates, massed population representation and other like subjects, I almost forgot that the measure which we are discussing is a proposal to make Commonwealth grants to States which are in need of them. 
Under one of the bills now before the Senate, Tasmania is to receive a grant of £450,000. I notice from the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission that the amounts claimed by tho three States differ greatly from that which has been recommended and is provided for in these bills. Tasmania is in the unfortunate position of having obtained a smaller percentage of the amount asked for than any other State. South Australia is receiving 75 per- cent, of the amount claimed, Western Australia a little over 50 per cent., and Tasmania only 41 per cent. I am sorry that the percentage for Tasmania is not higher, because, since the inauguration of federation, that State has suffered greatly, not. from its own administrative faults, but because of its isolation from the mainland. The handicaps which its people have endured are well known to most honorable senators. I refer particularly to the burden imposed upon Tasmania by the operation of the Navigation Act. The commission disregards to a great extent the statement that the Navigation Act has been largely responsible for Tasmania's present financial difficulties. I cannot agree with its attitude on that subject, because I have personal knowledge of the damaging effect of that act on our primary industries, notably the saw-milling industry. The position of Tasmania is entirely different from that of the other southern States. The bulk of the timber- milled in the Victorian  forests is conveyed by rail to the metropolitan area, whereas Tasmanian millers depended almost entirely on the Victorian market, and the freight charges necessitated by the Navigation Act were an enormous handicap. Actually, high shipping freights were responsible for  the  failure of many Tasmanian mills. 1" read with interest the recommendation and the notes accompanying the second report of the commission, and 1 direct attention to the following paragraphs : - 
The position of Tasmania differs radically from that of the other two States. If it suffers from Commonwealth tariff policy it  benefits  from interstate free trade. 
To some extent that is true. The benefit Tasmania has received as a result of federation is admitted, especially in connexion with the marketing of some of its products on the mainland. The report continues - 
It has, however, no monopoly of its more specialized products, and its comparative advantages have been whittled away by the growth of a self-sufficient agricultural policy in other States, which has not always  been  effectively restrained by the constitutional provision for freedom of trade. 
I am glad that that point is mentioned 1,Y the commission because the handicap to Tasmania in this respect is not sufficiently recognized. Over twenty years ago Tasmanian producers had an almost unrestricted market in Victoria for  practically  everything they produced; but with the development of that State many products grown in Tasmania were also grown in Victoria, and the opportunities of Tasmanian producers were accordingly restricted. Markets were also lost owing to the embargoes imposed by the Victorian, authorities on certain Tasmanian products. These embargoes remained in operation for many years, but they have now been removed. These disabilities, in conjunction with others, had a detrimental effect upon Tasmanian trade. The report continues - 
Its main difficulty comes from its poverty of resources and small area of good land. At this date only 7,000.000 out of 17.000,000 acres have, been alienated from the Crown, and a considerable proportion of the island is undeveloped and uninhabited. 
The commission might have added that a considerable proportion of Tasmania is incapable of development, which is a great handicap to the State, authorities. Those who have travelled in Tasmania know that a large proportion of the State consists of mountainous, barren country, but those who have not visited it, having read of its wonderful attractions, regard its whole surface as a veritable garden of Eden. It is not so, because the arable areas are limited. There is no part of the Commonwealth where cultivable land is used to greater advantage and more closely settled than in Tasmania. Land which was idle until a few years ago has now been found suitable for fruit-growing and is developed to the fullest extent. Agricultural areas of volcanic land in the north-west, held in blocks of 50 to 100 acres, are fully developed. The fact that the area of cultivable land in Tasmania is limited adds to the difficulties of that State in keeping up to normal Australian standards. The commission also states - 
Tasmania's population has increased very slowly, and there is little of the profits of expansion. . 
Further on in its report the commission states - 
The costs of administration are below normal, and for this £60,000 is added. Severity of taxation is a little above normal, and £18,000 is added on account of taxation. 
That shows that Tasmania recognizes its responsibility to the Commonwealth and to the taxpayers. The commission states that " Administrative costs have been kept down until they are below normal, and the taxation is a little above the average amount for the Commonwealth ". Another paragraph reads - 
Unfortunately Tasmania has allowed her assets to run down, railways need rehabilitation 
That cannot be denied. Rehabilitation cannot be undertaken owing to the lack of funds. Those who have travelled in Tasmania must recognize the enormous difficulties which confronted the authorities in opening up the country by the construction of railways and roads. Owing to engineering difficulties occasioned by broken country, the cost of constructing railways and roads must have been much greater in Tasmania than in any other part of the Commonwealth. The Tasmanian people are  able to point with pride to the roads constructed throughout the State. The report also states that: "forests are depleted and there is evidence of soil exhaustion". The commission states further -  there seems to have been some lack of forsight and enterprise in these directions, but few positive faults of policy can be found. Tasmania is thus a State of poor resources; she benefits from the federal connexion, but the strain of keeping up to the industrial and social standards of the rest of the Commonwealth imposes a heavy burden upon her. 
The report then' shows how Tasmania could and should be helped. It states - 
While in respect to South Australia and Western Australia we feel convinced that the grants recommended are sufficient to give these States full opportunity to redress their financial inferiority, we do not feel the same conviction in respect to the Tasmanian grant. This is on account of her long depressed condition, some degree of exhaustion of her natura.] resources and accumulative wastage of her capital assets, which, of course, cannot be remedied by full provision for depreciation for a year or two. We think, therefore, that there is occasion for special help or encouragement beyond the scope . of special grants, and we recommend this need to the consideration of the Commonwealth Government and Parliament. The form such help should take would require technical examination, and we do not consider it our province to recommend it, except in general terms. An example, however, may make our meaning clearer. Tasmania has great forestry possibilities, but her assets have been depleted. Longterm forestry policy, involving considerable expenditure over a term of years, is needed. Such a policy has been worked out a.nd described to us in evidence, and the Commonwealth Director of Forests commented on it very favorably to us. This policy has now been initiated with the help of the Commonwealth grant for forestry, but it is hampered by uncertainty as to the necessary funds in future years, which prevents, for example, the recruiting of an adequate technical staff. A.n undertaking to finance some such scheme approved by the Commonwealth's technical advisers seems to us the kind of additional help that Tasmania now needs. 
I commend the commission for having made that recommendation, and, from what I know of the need of an afforestation policy in Tasmania, and from a forecast of the result of a properlydevised scheme, I am confident that assistance in that direction would be invaluable, not only to Tasmania, but to the Commonwealth. It is useless to undertake such work in a piecemeal manner. Due attention must be given to technical advice, and provision made so that any such scheme may be watched closely until it is fully developed. If that were done we could then expect to reap the advantages such a scheme would afford. I regret that the amount allocated to Tasmania is not larger ; but I express appreciation of the excellent way in which the commission has conducted its inquiry, and the conclusions it has reached on certain points. I trust that the recommendations referred to will be adopted at the earliest possible date. 
.- This hill might be termed a benediction bill, in that the only thing we can do is to give it our benediction. I do not suppose for a moment that the Government would listen to the representations of Western Australian senators that the grant to that State should be increased by £200,000, and I do not suppose that the representatives of South Australia would favour  a  suggestion from us that that amount should be taken from the grant to South Australia. This is a case of saying, " Oh Lord, we are thankful for what we are about to receive." We understand that the grant will not approach the amount recommended by the commission. The crux of the position is in the statement by the Minister  (Senator Pearce),  that the Government is awaiting the final report of the commission before adopting a permanent method to assist the weaker States of the Commonwealth. Until that report is received, it is rather difficult to make suggestions as to what form permanent assistance should take. It is obvious that, as the years go on, further .financial assistance will be required, because it will take a number of years to correct the great differences which now exist between the six States. I shall look forward to the final recommendation of the commission, and to the Government's proposals based thereon. Another aspect of this subject which appeals to me is the method by which this money is to be expended in the respective States. Unfortunately, honorable senators cannot determine how this money should bc expended as this is entirely a matter for the respective State governments. I wish that I could influence the Government of Wes-  tern Australia to spend some of this grant in the development of the far northern portion of that State, which has been aptly termed the " Achilles' heel " of Australia, because it is the least populated and the most vulnerable part of the Commonwealth. The development of this part of Australia has been neglected by successive State governments, but in the interests of the Commonwealth as a whole this Government should consider the advisability of making a special allowance to Western Australia to compensate it for disabilities arising out of the backwardness of the far northern portion of that State.  Senator Collett  stated that the Government had no option but to assist the weaker States. This is as true as is the fact that until the backward States are helped effectively they will retard the development of Australia as a whole. In. this respect I see an analogy in the convoy which left Australia in October, 1914. It was apparent in such a case that the fastest rate at which the convoy as a whole could travel was the fastest speed of the slowest boat. Similarly, until the backward States of Australia are brought as much as possible in line with the more progressive States their lack of development will retard the rate of progress of the Commonwealth as a whole. 
The proposal to construct a standardgauge railway between Port Augusta and Red Hill, seems, at the moment, to be in a state of flux. In view of the Government's present attitude towards this proposal I suggest that it should transfer its attention to constructing a standardgauge line from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle,. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.The construction of such a line by the Commonwealth was mentioned as part of proposals for widening of gauges in the policy enunciated by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  at the last general election. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.If the people of South Australia are blind to the benefits which would accrue from the widening of the railway gauge from Port Augusta to Adelaide - undoubtedly the most uncomfortable and antiquated section on the whole route - I suggest that the Commonwealth should now devote its attention to the construction of a standard-gauge railway in Western Australia from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle. 
I disagree with the suggestions advanced by  Senator Hardy  for the solution of the population problem of Australia. As one who has had quite a lot to do with population figures so far as they enter into election results, the honorable senator's suggestions do not appeal to me.  His  proposal would mean the splitting up of New South Wales into three States, which would result in the area which is now New South Wales having eighteen senators instead of six. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.That might be so, but nevertheless such representatives would be New South Welshmen. If  Senator Hardy's  suggestion were carried out and New South Wales were divided into three States the population bogy of federation would then be transferred to Victoria, which would then become " the nigger in the wood-pile", and we should have to start subdividing Victoria. An so on interminably. The real reasons why the smaller States approach the Commonwealth Government for assistance in the form of a grant are to be found on page 91 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report, where the net benefits, as well as the net disabilities, of protection to the various States are tabulated. That table shows that the net burden to Western Australia as a result of the fiscal policy of the Commonwealth is equivalent to £2.97  per capita.  Queensland, which benefits most under the Commonwealth's policy of protection is assisted to the extent of £3.48  per capita.  The opulent State of which  Senator Hardy  is a representative in this chamber suffers a net disability of £.67  per capita.  Victoria enjoys a net benefit of £.79  per capita;  South Australia suffers a net disability of £1.91  per capita,  and Tasmania a net disability of £2.46  per capita.  The penalties being suffered by the smaller States have operated for 35 years and they supply the reason why the backward State's - South Australia, Western 
Australia and Tasmania - find it necessary to seek special assistance from the Commonwealth to help them out of their financial difficulties. These figures, 1 may state, were not submitted by Western Australia, but by South Australia. In view of these facts I suggest that  Senator Hardy  should forget all about his plan for the creation of new States and, instead, study the table to which I have referred. It supplies the real explanation as to why the Commonwealth is so lopsided in respect of finance and progress. 
We are entitled to a lot of things which, in our own interests, we should not get ; it is a case of protecting ourselves from ourselves. 
I regret that  Senator Hardy  has contrasted city interests with rural interests. We have been fighting a similar misstatement in Western Australia. Any attemptto set the city against the country should be frowned upon by honorable senators because there is nothing so irritating or untrue as the suggestion that urban communities seek to penalize rural communities, or vice versa. The sooner such a suggestion is forgotten the better it will be for the people of the Commonwealth as a whole. 
I conclude by again referring to the claim which Western Australia has for assistance from the Commonwealth because of the disabilities which that State has laboured under for 35 years on account of Commonwealth fiscal policy. This point, however, has been dealt with fully by former representatives of Western Australia in this chamber, and I do not propose to take up the time of honorable senators by labouring the matter at this juncture. I give the bill my benediction, hoping, when a similar measure is introduced  12  months hence, to see an increase in the grant to Western Australia. 
Common courtesy demands that when an obligation is discharged it should be acknowledged. Sometimes a payment is a favour or gratuity. 
In this case the Commonwealth is paying a debt due to South Australia, and J, as a representative of the State, acknowledge -the payment. Apparently  Senator Allan  MacDonald thinks that South Australia should hand over some of its grant to Western Australia. I certainly am not prepared to do that. Apparently he entertainsanother grievance against South Australia, for he has suggested that the Commonwealth should devote any money it is prepared to spend on a standard gauge railway in South Australia, to the construction of a railway on the standard gauge from Kalgoorlie toFremantle. So far as I am concerned, that line may be constructed by this or any other government. South Australia certainly does not want a standard gauge railway line constructed in that State. If there is a worse section on the transcontinental railway from Brisbane to Perth than the section from Kalgoorlie to Perth I have not found it. 
I have travelled over it many times. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  suggested that permanent relief should be provided for the smaller States,, but contrary to his usual custom in dealing with important matters he treated this matter very curtly. Apparently he needs to be reminded of the wonderful grant which the people of Australia have given to Queensland under the sugar agreement. The smaller States unfortunately are ' not so wealthy as Queensland, and therefore stand in need of financial assistance in the form of special grants from the Commonwealth Government. 
If at a later date we have an opportunity to discuss that matter, I shall be pleased to be enlightened on it by the Leader of the Opposition, and I shall be very pleased also if he can convince me that the people of South Australia are not paying too much for sugar under that agreement. 
When speaking on the budget I pointed out that South Australia's claim for a grant of £2,000,000 did not over-estimate its needs. However, the commission, in its wisdom, has seen fit to recommend a grant to that State of £1,500,000. Our original estimate of £2,000,000 which was arrived at after very careful consideration of our claims by actuaries was accurate and unbiassed. I desire to correct an impression which is abroad in South Australia, and is mentioned in the report of the commission, that the people of South Australia did not back up their request for a grant of £2,000,000. We certainly did not do so on this occasion. Paragraph 32 of the commission's report ' states - 
The formal application for a special grant was expressed thus - " If the budget is to he balanced in 1935-36, it appeals that a special grant of approximately £2,000,000 will be required. . . . A full statement of claim is set out in  The Vasse for South Australia  1033, and it is presumed that it will not be necessary to draw up an entirely new Case." 
South Australia prepared its case in 1933, and conditions have not altered materially since then.It may be that the State actuaries were guided entirely by South Australia's disabilities, whereas the commission worked on the basis of the disabilities of all the States combined.  lt  took Queensland and Victoria as a standard by which to measure the disabilities of the other States. 
I congratulate the Commonwealth Government on its general acceptance of the recommendations of the commission. We have had so many instances of the reports of costly commissions having been placed in pigeon-holes and forgotten that it is refreshing to find that the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission has been treated with more respect. Unless a government is willing to be guided by the recommendations of a commission which it sets up, its appointment is scarcely worth while. In this connexion I am tempted to predict that although the Wheat Commission travelled over most of the Commonwealth, and took evidence sufficient to fill many volumes, the bill which will shortly be introduced to deal with the wheat industry will not embody many of its recommendations. A conference of representatives of the Commonwealth and the States met in Canberra recently to consider the needs of the wheat-growing in dustry, but apparently the delegates were not in agreement with the report of the Wheat Commission. 
Even ifSouth Australia be a mendicant State, as some have suggested, it is at least an honest State. About five years ago all the States agreed to introduce emergency legislation. They drew up a plant under which they agreed to balance their budgets within five years. South Australia is the only State which has fulfilled that undertaking. 
South Australia has not been given more than it was entitled to receive. The budget of that State has been balanced only because of the heavy burden placed on every section of its people. South Australia has imposed heavier taxation than has been imposed in any of the other States, its public servants have not had their salaries restored, and, indeed, every section of the community has suffered in order to fulfill the contract entered into five years ago.  Senator Hardy  referred to the secession movement in Western Australia, and hinted that secession wa3 a live issue in South Australia. That is not so. The people of that State are true Australians ; they do not want either secession or unification. They believe that this continent can be developed better as a federation than by the States acting individually. So long as the Commonwealth treats South Australia reasonably, as is proposed in this bill, that State will make better progress than if it secedes. In this connexion I express the opinion that the Northern Territory will not prosper until it has a government of its own, and is no longer controlled from a centre many hundreds of miles distant. Australia will be held together only by the Commonwealth coming to the aid of States which deserve assistance. 
.- Tasmania is grateful for the amount proposed to be paid to it under this bill although it still regards this grant as insufficient. On page 17 of its report the Commonwealth Grants Commission gave the basis of the claims of Tasmania for financial assistance. In some respects the commission has made a fair assessment of the disadvantages of Tasmania, but in other respects the report is not definite. On page 30 of the report attention is drawn to the advantages which Tasmania has derived from Commonwealth policy. I have considered those so-called advantages, butcannot agree that they mean much to the State. Among them is "Grant as offset to flour tax, £45,000." I cannot see how that can be regarded as an advantage accruing from Commonwealth policy, seeing that the tax was imposed in accordance with Commonwealth policy. 
That may be; but that grant was not an advantage to Tasmania from Commonwealth policy. Again the commission claims that Tasmania has derived an advantage in connexion, with the taxation of lottery prizes. I have always been somewhat amused at the attitude of the Commonwealth Government to lottery prizes. For many years the Postal Department refused to transmit postal articles to Tattersalls, and the names of persons who were thought to be connected with such an iniquitous institution were placed on the prohibited list. But the Federal Income Tax authorities had no such scruples, for they collected income tax on all lottery prizes. Evidently the two departments had different standards of morality. 
It would be of advantage to Tasmania if, instead of an annual assessment of the grant, a regular amount were assured to that State for a period of years. Under existing conditions, the Tasmanian Government is unable to prepare its budget until it knows what financial assistance it will receive from the Commonwealth. If the amount were determined earlier, preferably before the close of the previous financial year, 'the State government could make a more reliable estimate of its receipts than is now possible. In paragraph 209 of its report the commission states - 
While in respect of South Australia and Western Australia, we feel convinced that the grants recommended are sufficient to give these 
States full opportunity to redress their financial inferiority, -we donot feel the same conviction in respect to the Tasmanian grant  . . . We think, therefore, that there is occasion for special help or encouragement beyond the scope of special grants, and we recommend this need to the consideration of the Commonwealth Government and Parliament. 
I hope that in its next report the commission itself will make a definite recommendation in this connexion. Although the amount proposed to be granted to Tasmania is less than half what the State asked for the money will be gratefully received. On page 46 of  The Economic Case for Tasmania,  the following appears in paragraph 71 :  - 
During their last visit to Tasmania the Commonwealth Grants Commission was informed by the State government that an acknowledged authority had submitted a suggested formula for calculating the amount of special payments to the States. This was as follows: - 
1 ) The amount by which the actual contribution by any State to Commonwealth revenue exceeds the taxable capacity of that State, i.e., each State should contribute revenue for common purposes according to its taxable capacity. 
The taxable capacity should be measured by the aggregate amount of direct taxation imposed by the Commonwealth upon the inhabitants of each State (such revenue being assumed to be raised on a common basis for all the States). 
I have had a statement prepared to show what amount of Commonwealth assistance would be granted to the various States if adjustments were made automatically. The figures show that practically the same amount as now would have to be found by the Commonwealth if the suggestion of the " Case for Tasmania " Committee were given effect. During 1932-33, the total revenue collected from the States, including surplus, was £59,290,000, whilst the total revenue derived from direct taxation that year was £13,788,000. The totals for the' various States are: New South Wales, £24,809,000 ; Victoria, £16,644,000 ; Queensland, £7,694,000; South Australia, £4,698,000; Western Australia, £3,628,000; and. Tasmania, £1,817,000. The commission's report gives a great deal of space to the taxable capacity of the States, which, after all, seems to be a reasonable basis upon which the amount of grants should be decided. In 1932-33, South Australia  received from the Commomwealtha grant of £1,000,000, but under the automatic adjustment of grants by the Commonwealth to the States suggested by Tasmania, it would have received £1,722,000. Western Australia would not have fared so well. It received £500,000 in 1932-33, but under the Tasmanian plan it would have received only £460,000. Tasmania received £350,000, and would have received £515,000. It appears that it would he worth while for the Commonwealth Grants Commission to make a further investigation of that suggestion. The smaller States cannot grumble, however, at the treatment that has been meted out to them this year, although naturally they would have liked the grants to be larger. I am grateful for the amount provided for Tasmania, and I support the bill. 
SenatorUPPILL (South Australia) [6.7].  -  I desire to support the hill. As the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission is so complete and the definite findings referred to therein have been adhered to by the Government it is notnecessary to deal at length with any particular aspect of it. This afternoon  Senator Allan  MacBonald suggested that South Australia should transfer toWestern Australia £200,000 of its grant. It should be sufficient to remind the honorable senator that in this chamber the State of South Australia has three representatives whose Scottish origin is betrayed by the prefix " Mac ". 
An important passage of the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission is the statement - 
South Australia has a very large proportion of marginal country - land where the rainfall judged by the most satisfactory measures is too low for most forms of agriculture. 
I have had many years of experience as a wheat-grower and as a member of the State Bank Board, which was involved i n the opening of themallee country east of the river Murray and on the west coast. The development of those large areas was begun by the South Australian. Government in 1900, when the introduction of superphosphates revolutionized the farming industry, and before the commencement of the high tariff policy of the Commonwealth Government, whichhas increased the cost of wheat production. TheWheat Royal 
Commission accepted the statement that costs of production of wheat rose in the years between 1913 and 1929 by something like 71 per cent, as a result of the high protectionist policy of the Commonwealth.Whether that is correct, I do not know, but my own observations have led me . to the view that the development of the marginal areas was not altogether the fault of the State. South Australia is making every attempt to re-organize the wheat industry, and to remove farmers from the marginal lands. 
I think that South Australia should be grateful for the assistance which the Commonwealth Government  is  extending to it under this bill, but I desire to support the contention of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and of  Senator Grant  that definite machinery should be set up to enable the States to know the amount of money they will receive each year from the Commonwealth.. South Australia feels humiliated at having to make annual applications for grants. I suggest that it would be possible for the Commonwealth Government to state the minimum grants that will be paid each year, and for a board of review to adjust annually such grants in accordance with the financial positions of the claimant States. I was glad to note from the remarks made yesterday by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that, although the commission has not been able to bring forward a definite scheme which will operate permanently, this matter is receiving consideration. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to8p.m. 

 I should not have spoken in this debate but for the fact that, during the afternoon, reference was made to a number of extraneous matters which I consider call for a brief reply. The purpose of the bill is to compensate the smaller, or, as they should be called, the claimant, States for losses which they suffered under federation. All honorable senators are, I think, in favour of this principle. In order to assist Parliament to determine the amount to he allocated to the three States concerned, the Commonwealth Grants Commission was appointed about two years ago to inquire into and report upon the measure  of disability suffered by, and make a recommendation of the amount to be granted to, each State. I regret that the commission's recommendations have not been accepted in their entirety, but I recognize that the. Government must consider the financial position of the Commonwealth, and do what it thinks is right in the circumstances. 
One would think, while listening to the remarks of  Senator Hardy,  that the representatives in this Parliament of the larger States always objected, on principle, to grants being made to the smaller States. That is not the case. I venture the opinion that, in the House of Representatives, as well as in this chamber, they are, without exception, quite in accord with the principles of the bill.  Senator Hardy  also went to much trouble to impress upon honorable senators that the representatives of the larger States dominate the other chamber and unduly influence the trend of legislation. He referred, particularly, to the voting strength of New South Wales and Victoria in the House of Representatives, but entirely failed to make good his case. In support of my view, may I point out that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, and the  Chairman  of Committees in that chamber are all representatives of the smaller States. In this chamber, also, you,  Mr. President,  the Leader of the Senate, and the  Chairman  of Committees are representatives of two of the claimant States. These appointments to the highest offices in the Parliament give the lie direct to  Senator Hardy's  suggestion that the representatives of the larger States dominate either branch of the legislature. The honorable senator confined his remarks to the composition of the House of Representatives, pointing out that 64 per cent, of the representation was given to Victoria and New South Wales, the balance, 36 per cent., being apportioned to the four remaining States. He omitted to mention that in the Senate these so-called smaller States have 66 per cent, of the representation,,while the two larger States have the remaining 34 per cent. Continuing his references to New South Wales,  Senator Hardy  stated that it contained sixteen industrial divisions. I presume he in- eluded .in this number Warringah, in which there are poultry farms, vegetable gardens, .and citrus growers. Parramatta, which is in very much the same position, and probably Robertson, which embraces only a small part of the metropolitan area, and extends a considerable distance into the country. He then went on to say that the country representation was purely rural in its character. On this point I am not in agreement with the honorable gentleman. We all know that nearly every country electoral division is dominated by its large towns. The representation of one division, for example, is to a large extent controlled by the voting strength of the town of Wagga. As other rural divisions in New South Wales are dominated similarly by their prinicpal  towns, the honorable gentleman's argument that the representation of country divisions is purely rural in character is not quite borne out by the facts. He also made veiled reference to the fiscal beliefs of the members representing the sixteen industrial divisions, suggesting that they were at variance with the fiscal views of the twelve New South Wales rural divisions. Again he was not strictly accurate, because, as is well known, some members representing country divisions are advocates of high protection, and, on the other hand, some representatives of industrial divisions have a leaning towards freetrade. Furthermore, some country and some metropolitan representatives are a trifle inconsistent in their fiscal beliefs. Nevertheless, I contend that members of the House of Representatives, as well as senators, whether representative of city or rural interests, are capable of deciding tariff issues on their merits, and, for the most part, do hold the scales evenly between the interests of urban and rural constituencies. I am one of those who believe that, in the National Parliament, we should not encourage the growth of sectional differences. I may have misjudged  Senator Hardy,  but that was the only deduction I could make from his argument this afternoon. 
I do not know,  Mr. President,  if, in the discussion on this bill, I shall be in order in making brief references to the 
New States movement. I should like your ruling on the point. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - It is true that  Senator Hardy  made somewhat extended references to the New States movement. In doing so, he may have transgressed the Standing Orders requiring debate to lui relevant to the bill; but, as 1 stated when ruling on the point of order that was raised by  Senator J.  V. MacDonald, the subject under discussion, involving, as it does, i he payment of Commonwealth grants to States, is so important that some latitude is permissible. We have been void, and we know from experience, that government is finance, and finance is government. As this bill vitally affects the  interests of citizens of the claimant States, the discussion on it should not, in my opinion, be unduly restricted by a too rigid observance of the Standing Orders.  Senator Hardy  referred to the subdivision of States, and gave reasons for his belief that the present position of the States could not have been visualized by the framers of the Constitution.  His  remedy for the existing situation is a subdivision of political areas for the purpose of altering the composition of the representation, in this chamber. The subdivision of New South Wales would, lie suggested, ensure the return of twelve more senators for that State, and the additional voting strength of the rural areas would influence decisions with regard to tariff matters. This, he argued, would thus ease the burden on the primaryproducing States, and eventually affect the amount of Commonwealth grants to be made to them.  Senator Allan  MacDonald supports the view that the position of Western Australia is due to Commonwealth fiscal policy. It is clear  that, if  Senator Hardy's  view of the situation is correct, he was in order in referring to the subdivision of States as :i remedy for the disabilities of the primary-producing States and the rural interests generally. Therefore  Senator Dein  also will be in order in referring t o the new States movement. 
In my opinion, to advocate the creation of new States is to advocate a lost cause.  Senator Hardy  pleaded that this course was just as necessary now as when the various colonies in Australia were founded. I do not agree with the honorable gentleman. The circumstances then were entirely different from those of to-day. The first settlement took place in Tasmania in 1803. The means of communication with Sydney were few and slow, so the settlers had practically no alternative but to develop some form of local government, and it was not long before the settlement at Hobart was recognized as a separate colony. The same conditions operated when the first settlers arrived in Victoria in 1S24.  Dr. Lang  advocated that the settlement at Port Phillip should be known as Victoria. Although it is true that a constitution was not granted until 1851, Victoria was a separate political entity from 1824. The same principles were applied in the establishment of the colonies of Western Australia and South Australia. What is the position to-day? The Riverina district is one portion of New South Wales which  Senator Hardy  suggested should form a new State, and that is where the honorable senator lives. The fact should be borne in mind that- there are two or three railway lines running through the Riverina, and that a capital city can be readied by rail or by motor car within a few hours. If one travelled by aeroplane the distance could be traversed in a much shorter time. It will therefore be seen that to-day the circumstances are entirely different from, those which obtained when the less-populous States were formed. 
I have my own opinions as to the reasons for the appointment of that commission and the report it produced. It is sufficient to say that not one of the advocates of new States wanted the city of Sydney, which provides a market for the three suggested States, within the present boundaries of New South Wales. The fact that a commission was appointed and submitted a report does not signify anything, because numerous royal commissions have been appointed and little, if any, notice has been taken of their recommendations. No one can say truthfully that new States are as necessary as when the smaller States were formed. When the less-populous States were established there were no capital debts, but to-day the position is totally different. The formation of new States is a good catch-cry for those seeking parliamentary honours, but notwithstanding the recommendations of the royal commission I maintain that the formation of such States is not justified. Does  Senator Hardy  want new States to be established so that their representatives may assist the party he leads in this chamber to dominate the Senate? The bill is framed to assist financially those .States which are suffering disabilities, and is an honest attempt on the part of the Parliament to remedy, so far as possible, the losses they have incurred as the result of federation. I am glad to find that the representatives of those States which are supposed to dominate the claimant States are supporting the measure, and my only regret is that full effect cannot be given to the commission's recommendations. 
I was surprised to hear  Senator Dein  say that none of the advocates of new States wanted the city of Sydney. If that is so, I suggest that it be handed over' to Tasmania, because that State might be able to do something with it. This bill is the direct result of the recommendations contained in the second report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, in respect of grants to Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania under section 96 of the Constitution. I should like to compare the position in Tasmania ten years ago with the position which exists to-day. At the end of 1924 and at the beginning of 1925 the feeling towards the Commonwealth was one of resentment, bitterness and disappointment. The people felt that they were not getting a. fair deal from the Commonwealth, and that the disabilities under which they were suffering were the direct result of federal policy. Of course there were other factors, one of which cannot be altered. We are an insular people, and, 
I think, a peculiar people in some respects, as are most islanders. The feeling was running so high that a majority of the Tasmanian people said that if they could not get a better deal from the Commonwealth they had better withdraw from the federation. I do not admit that contention. A study of the position in North America and Canada shows what happened to the little island of Newfoundland. When the British-North America Act was passed in 1860, taking in the whole of the Dominion of Canada, Newfoundland stoutly declined to come into the confederation. Honorable senators will remember what a sorry mess Newfoundland was in eighteen months or two years ago.- It was bankrupt and so " up against it " that responsible government ceased, and it is now being controlled by a commission appointed by the British Government. It is, therefore, very doubtful that Tasmania would be better off if it were out of the federation. The feeling was running so high in 1925 that quite a number of leading men in Tasmania -  Senator Grant  will bear me out in this because he took a prominent part in the movement - formed an association, league, or society. There was a good deal of argument as to the name to bo given to the association, but it was eventually designated the Tasmanian Rights League. Some suggested that it should he named the Tasmanian Wrongs League. Branches were established all over the State, and a large sum of money was subscribed to enable the league to pursue its objects. I know a good deal concerning the work of this organization, because I was one of its paid officials. I travelled all over the island, and my activities in connexion with that organization were largely responsible for my election to the Senate nine years ago. If honorable senators will refer to  Bansard,  volume 112, page 323, of Friday the 22nd January, 1926, they will find the following - 
Only a few irresponsible people and others who seek to make political capital out of it speak in that way, but in Tasmania to-day, generally speaking, one does not hear any talk of secession. Of course, Tasmanians, having received certain benefits from the Commonwealth, exhibit, like. Oliver Twist, the human tendency to ask for more, but I believe that in recent years Tasmania has received not only a fair deal but also sympathetic treatment from the Commonwealth. I have not yet met an honorable senator or a member of the House -of Representatives who has not been sympathetic to Tasmania and anxious to give it a reasonable deal. For the reasons I have indicated very many people in Tasmania still hold the view that all Tasmania's troubles are directly due 'to Commonwealth policy and Commonwealth legislation. To gain their own ends some people play on that feeling and it is the duty of all of us as Australians to' overcome it and to persuade our people generally to take a broad view of the matter. Tasmanians are geographically isolated but, thanks largely to the establishment of air services with the mainland, that disability is disappearing. Later, perhaps, the linking of Tasmania "with the mainland by submarine cable will increase that tendency. Some people hold the view that such a cable will be a great boon to Tasmania. I doubt whether it will be so very welcome to honorable senators representing Tasmania because I can readily imagine that some gentleman, whom I know, will use this cable at the least provocation, to get in touch with Tasmanian representatives in this chamber, even if it means turning us out of our bunks, to settle every little trouble that might arise. Thus this cable will not be an unqualified boon but no doubt it will be welcome. 
The claims of the States for grants from the Commonwealth were obviously not on the conservative side. The recommendations of the commission are embodied in a measure now under discussion. One could speak at great length on the subject in showing the effect which federation has had on the smaller States. However, the allegation that the two great industrial States dominate the other States is not new and is not peculiar to Australia; neither is the drift of population from the smaller and outer States to the greater and inner States. Tasmania spends a lot of money, perhaps more than it can afford, on education. The tendency of the most promising of our young people to gravitate to the bigger cities of the mainland where opportunities are more plentiful is only natural, but it causes great concern to our State. When I visited Canada in 1928 Canadians complained that the best of their young men and women, were attracted across the border into the United States where they were much sought after for commercial and professional posts. My experience in Australia is that Tasmanians are similarly sought after in the Commonwealth and generally those who have come to the mainland in search of careers have done very well. Their success is explained by the fact that such migrants are usually more adventurous, and have greater initiative than others. All of these factors have been weighed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission, which I congratulate on the thorough report it has presented to this  Parlia-  ment. I also congratulate the Government on the action it has taken to give effect to that report. 
Although we members of the Opposition support the bill we consider it unsatisfactory that similar' measures are brought before this Parliament each year. My colleagues and I hold the opinion that this Government, if it were wise in its generation, and did its duty, would submit legislation to help the States to overcome the difficulty of balancing their budgets, without having to approach the Commonwealth for assistance year after year. I realize that under present conditions the so-called smaller States have a right to call upon this Government to help them financially. We have now reached a stage in our understanding of the financial situation of the States, and the relationship of State to State, when every honorable senator recognizes that such assistance is the right of the necessitous units of the federation. At the same time, however, all of us realize that there is something wrong when year by year these States have to be paid grants out of the federal Treasury. I do not think that any honorable senator who spoke to-day would agree that the smaller States should be paid such grants by this Parliament interminably, nor would he deny that it is the duty of Parliament, to obviate the need of the States for such assistance. Honorable senators hold various opinions as to the origin of these needs.  Senator Johnston,  who is a secessionist, is so much a man of principle, practising what he preaches, that he first seceded from the Labour party, and has now seceded from the Country party- 
Order I 
When the honorable senator says that  Senator Johnston  as a man of principle seceded from the Labour party I have no objection to such a statement. 

 Senator- Hardy said that we should get down tobasic causes, but in the course of a long speech he did not indicate what those.' causes are. The honorable senator also said' that the position of the primaryproducing States, might be different if the prices of commodities rose. . The financial position of. the claimant States- would be improved. The primary-producing States are in difficulties because the primary producers do not get sufficient prices for their products to enable themto pay their way. The commodities which they produce have to be sold in the open markets of the world. 
Every honorable senator, who- is allied in any way with country interests, realizes that the financial disabilities which the States are suffering to-day are due to the fact that primary producers are not receiving a. fair and adequate return for their labours. The Commonwealth Government, instead of proposing grants to the States year after year, should take steps to ensure to primary industries fair prices for the commodities which they produce. If it does so, there will be no further need for these annual grants to States whose production is predominantly primary. 
I was pleased to hear  Senator Sampson  declare that the stage has been reached at which it is realized that the payments to the States provided for in this bill are their right,, and are notto be regarded as a dole, and that they must be continued until the economic system is. placed on a more sound basis.  It  is  a step in the right direction when a State which i.s thriving recognizes its duty to another State which is in need'. A communal conscience is being developed, but I am looking forward to the time when we shall carry this principle forward, and go to the assistance of not only the " owning " producers, but also the " nonowning " producers, I refer to the many persons in this country who have no money, no land, and no property, but who are producers when they are given the opportunity. Many persons consider that a dole is the proper thing for them, but it is just as wrong in principle to pay these people a dole as it is to pay a dole- to the smaller States. What the States are receiving is their right, and I hope the day will come when governments will recognize that every person, whether an owner or non-owner, is entitled to the best that the country can give to him. 
I am sorry that grants in aid of the States are still necessary, but, while they are necessary, the claimant States have no stronger supporters than the members of the Labour party. 
.- If this debate has shown one thing, it is the need, which was pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator J.  V. Macdonald, for permanent machinery to decide what is a fair and equitable grant to be made each year to the necessitous States. The Commonwealth Consti tution contains provision for the establishment of such machinery, and',, in the early days of federation, the Interstate Commission was in operation. Itisdifficult for members when these bills are brought down from time to time to know the basis on which the grants are being made. 
We have heard so much about State disabilities to-day, that we might well consider some of the disabilities under which the Commonwealth Government  is  labouring as a result of the constant requests by the States for additional grants from the Commonwealth Treasury. On the one hand, the Commonwealth Government is confronted with legitimate demands by taxpayers for a reduction of taxes, and, on the other hand, there is an almost unanimous demand from the State Treasurers, whether in conference or out of conference,- for further assistance. We are getting to the stage when almost every State ministerial head, who  finds his department in financial difficulty, immediately approaches the Commonwealth Government with a request for some form of compensation. 
SenatorFOLL. - Yes; it is becoming a popular ruse in the arena of State governments to-day, if something goes wrong, to blame the Commonwealth for i t, and to seek assistance from this Parliament.The grants to the States, following the reports of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, do not by any means represent all the assistance that is given, by the Commonwealth Goverment to the State governments. Last session, practically every measure discussed in the Senate provided for sums of money to be paid to one or other of the various State departments. Last year, and in previous years, sums up to £3,000,000 were paid to the States as assistance to the wheat industry. Those sums were definite grants in relief of State financial obligations. The bill for the rehabilitation of primary industries provided for a condition which in normal times would have been essentially a State obligation to be borne by the Agricultural Departments of the States. But the Commonwealth Government, recognizing the difficulties of primary industries, came to their aid. The Commonwealth Government to-day is being squeezed between taxpayers on the one hand, seeking more and more reductions of taxes, and, on the other hand, State Treasurers and other Ministers, seeking financial aid to extricate them from difficulties'. The reconstruction of the Interstate Commission would enable Parliament to ascertain the exact position of the claimant States and determine the amount to be granted to them, because the commission would take evidence and honorable senators would have an opportunity to peruse it. It appears to me that during the last few years the State Treasurer who could make the most noise at a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers, or who could bring the most pressure to bear on the Federal Treasurer, has secured for his State a larger grant than might otherwise have been given. I also remind  Senator Hardy,  and other honorable senators who have spoken in this debate, that Commonwealth assistance to the smaller States has not, in every instance, been rendered necessary, because of the decline in the volume of production or overseas prices. I say, without fear of successful . contradiction, that many of the difficulties in which the States now find themselves are traceable to the extravagance of the State governments. For instance, the lavish expenditure by South Australia several years ago on its railways was largely responsible for the financial difficulties of that State. The Government of the day sent to the United States of America for a new railways commissioner, and gave him  carte blanche  to spend what, money be thought necessary on the rehabilitation of the railways. As a result, he spent £1,000,000 on the erection of a new railway station at Adelaide despite the fact that the existing structure was quite up-to-date, and was ample for the requirements of the State for the next 100 years. 
I accept the honorable senator's correction and express regret for having overstated the amount of expenditure on the Adelaide railway station. But no one knows better than  Senator James  McLachlan that the abnormally heavy expenditure on the South Australian railways system several years ago materially contributed to the financial difficulties of that State. It is to the credit of the government of South. Australia that, by carefully conserving the finances, it has been able this year to submit a budget showing a small surplus. It is a fact that for many years State governments had a habit of incurring expenditure without regard to its effect on the budgets. They went on piling up deficit after deficit, knowing quite well that they could turn to the Commonwealth Government for assistance, notwithstanding that Commonwealth taxpayers were already carrying a heavy burden. 
These grants to the States are intended as compensation for disabilities which some of them have suffered under federa-  tion. The Federal Treasurer nowadays is looked upon as a sort of " rich uncle from Fiji " to . whom State Treasurers can turn for financial aid in their difficulties. Only the other day the Premier of Western Australia proudly announced that his government has restored to State public servants the whole of the amounts by which salaries had been reduced under the Premiers' plan. 
That is entirely beside the point. The State Government has made a complete restoration of State public service salaries whilst the Commonwealth and other States which pay the grant have been unable ro make full restoration to their own public servants. The direct result is an increase of the grant by the Commonwealth to Western Australia to assist the budget. In other words, Commonwealth taxpayers a little longer have to bear their heavy burden of taxation in order that State public servants in Western Australia may have their salaries restored to them. Another point to be remembered is that some of the States tax individual incomes at a much higher rate than others. It is not fair that a State which is not prepared to raise money by taxation in order to balance its budget should get additional assistance from the Commonwealth, while another State which may be more scrupulously observing its obligations under the Premiers' plan does not get the same consideration. 
As these bills come before Parliament every year it is desirable that we should have some basis upon which to decide the amount of grant. We can only put this business on a permanent basis by creating the necessary machinery, and until we do this I am afraid that we shall have a repetition annually of the debate which took place in the Senate to-day. 

 Senator ABBOTT  (New South Wales)  1  9.19].  -  I support the bill. I should not have spoken but for the reference of my leader  (Senator Hardy)  to the new States movement, in which, for many years, I have been deeply interested. It :seems to me that some honorable sena tors regard as almost blasphemous any suggestion that consideration should be given to a proposal which might mean better government for the people and the better development of our rural areas. My  memory  takes me back to the time when the Constitution was being considered by the several conventions. I was then a very young man, but, being interested in the proposals, I attended sittings of the Convention in Sydney, and recall clearly many of the pronouncements made by some of the intellectual giants who fathered the historic document, which was regarded as one of the greatest achievements of constitutional draftsmanship up to that time. But, as we now know,  in  the course of a few years the system developed defects. This, I suppose, was only natural, because no human agency is perfect. It is worth noting that the framers of the Constitution - men like the late  'Sir Henry  Parkes and the late  Sir Edmund  Barton - with great foresight included in the docua part specifically dealing  Avith  the creation of new States. Even in those days it was felt that, as the nation progressed,' the Constitution might develop those features of unbalancement, of which  Senator Hardy  spoke this afternoon. Unfortunately, those sections have proved to be the most defective part of the Constitution. It has never been quite clear what those .provisions really mean. 
For many years I have been closely connected with the New England movement in New South Wales, and I was surprised this afternoon to hear what I feel sure was unintentional misrepresentation by some honorable senators of the intentions of those who urge the creation of new States in New South Wales. One honorable senator appeared to be under the impression that it was intended to set up new parliaments with a considerable amount of costly administrative paraphernalia.- I remind the Siena to that the Maitland conference decided that, in the event of the movement being successful, the new area would be governed by a single chamber consisting of 25 members under a constitution providing all the necessary safeguards for the satisfactory working of such an assembly. Could advocates of unification, who tell us that they would subdivide the States into smaller areas find provide for government by provincial councils, devise simpler and more effective machinery than that? I doubt that they could. 
I am afraid that ray friend was somewhat surprised ..this afternoon when, in response to his suggestion that I did not support  Senator Hardy's  views, I told him most emphatically that I did. I have always believed that the subdivision of the larger States would make for the more effective government of the people. We who have been associated with the New States movement believe that, in area, Victoria is the ideal State, and I think that  Senator Hardy  this afternoon showed that the proposed Riverina State compares very favorably with Victoria. When I heard Queensland senators speaking this afternoon,  I.  was reminded of a speech which I heard delivered by the late  Sir William  Cullen at Armidale. He said that one evening, shortly after the inauguration of federation, he was standing on the Victoria Bridge in Brisbane in company with the late  Sir Samuel  Griffith, and said to him, "If Queensland had not been able to break away from New South Wales, what would have been the position of Brisbane to-day?" Both agreed that it would have been a good country town, but not a fully developed city as it is to-day. 
Just after the inception of federation. 
The separation of Queensland occurred many years before that. If the honorable senator will refer to the newspaper files available in the capital cities he will find that at that time there was the same bitter opposition to the secession of Queensland from New South Wales as there is in connexion with the Riverina and New England movements to-day. 
Only in so far as they follow up ,the remarks of  Senator Hardy.  I realize that I am sheltering somewhat behind .the ruling which you, sir, have given. It is regrettable that  Senator Hardy  has been misrepresented during the debate; his speech disclosed .a great deal of research in tracing the growth of this country, .and the cumulative result of the working  of  federation. Something should be done to adjust the balance. Generally speaking I support the bill because I feel that the claimant States are entitled to some financial relief. 
During the last parliamentary recess I visited Western Australia and was enabled to obtain a 'good deal of information, not only concerning that State, but also concerning the position in South Australia. I feel that many of the remarks of  Senator Hardy  can be challenged most effectively. Instead  of  placing too much emphasis on industrial representation and seeking to form new States we should endeavour to remove some of the financial difficulties confronting existing States. New South Wales is the wealthiest State in the Commonwealth, hut Victoria which is highly productive is much smaller in area. Both have great natural advantages over the other States. The city of Sydney, which has a population of 1,250,000, is not only the capital of New South Wales but ako may be regarded as the capital of the Western Pacific. Owing to the change which has taken place in the movements of ships, travellers from New Zealand to Australia are compelled to disembark at Sydney as the service between that dominion and other parts of the Commonwealth has 'been discontinued. A large number of world travellers also make Sydney their principal port of call an Australia, and in that way it receives greater revenue than the other capital cities of the Commonwealth. A study of the commercial importance of such cities as Sydney and Melbourne justifies one in saying that Sydney is the capital of Northern Australia and Melbourne the capital of Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia. 
In visiting Western Australia I found there was not a bank in Perth with its head office in that State. Most of the financial institutions were branches of South Australian or Victorian banks. 
Other honorable senators are more .conversant with the productivity and general activities' of Western Australia -than I am; but I found that a large number of the financial and commercial institutions established in Perth had their head offices in South Australia and Victoria and, of course, in some of the other States. The Bank of New South Wales is firmly established in Western Australia as it is throughout the Commonwealth. In considering the disabilities of the claimant States, which this measure seeks to remedy, we have to study their natural difficulties. New South Wales has a wonderful harbour on which the capital city is erected, and a larger population than any other State. Melbourne became wealthy and was able to establish industries sooner than some of the other States because of the population attracted during the gold rush in the early days. Victoria which is carrying its commercial domination into other States, including Queensland, has invisible imports in the form of returns from its industrial and commercial investments. I do not agree' with  Senator Poll  that all the States have been prodigal ; some State governments have exercised great care in the expenditure of the revenues at their disposal. I have not had an opportunity to study carefully the second report of the Commonwealth -Grants Commission, but I w.as able to give very close attention to the previous year's report. Under this measure it is proposed to afford financial assistance to three States, but we should remember that the finances of Queensland are in a delicate position. The claimant States represent a population of 1,250,000 and the people of the other States which are asked to provide 2,750,000 total about. 5,450,000. Queens land, which has to contribute about £500,000 towards , this amount is not asking for financial assistance, but its finances are in the balance in relation to the rest of the 'States, as shown by the commission's report. The difficulties of some States are due to their geographical situation and natural advantages, rather than to any other factor, and unfortunately this involves their subordination  to other States. Although Western Australia contains approximately 300,000 square miles more territory than Queensland, the land is not so good. In the world at large there are countries containing wide areas of undeveloped land or land unsuitable for cultivation, which are subject to the domination of other countries. Australia is under the financial and commercial domination of London, and to some extent of other countries, due to the sparseness of its population and the fact that it is unable to manufacture commodities at the low prices at which they can be produced in other countries. I do not think that  Senator Hardy's  comments on industrial representation, and the political predominance of the " industrial masses " of the cities have any bearing on this chamber as is shown by the small Labour representation in it. A large number of so-called city members in the House of Representatives are allied politically with the representatives of the Country party.  Senator Hardy  is keeping in tune with  Dr. Earle  Page, who is in close alliance with die members of the United Australia party. Reference has been made to the sugar agreement, but I remind honorable senators that if that agreement is not renewed, and the industry is destroyed, Queensland will be compelled to ask the Commonwealth to assist it to the amount of £2,000,000 or £3,000,000 annually to enable it to stabilize its finances as is now done with other States. 
Although Queensland has other industries such as  wool-growing  'and fruitgrowing, it does not feel that it can afford to lose any one of them. In common with Tasmania and Western Australia, and, to a lesser extent, with South Australia, Queensland suffers a number of disabilities, arising from the fact that manufacturers in 'Sydney and Melbourne, because of the large populations of those cities, are able to produce goods more cheaply than can manufacturers inany of the other States. Federation has definitely retarded the development of manufacturing industries in Queensland. Consequently, I claim that any benefit which that State receives under the Sugar Agreement goes back entirely, and with a little more, to Victoria and New South Wales, which are the only truly financial States. 

 Senator Hardy's suggestion to create new States would not assist the Commonwealth economically. If we had unification, the establishment of provincial legislatures would probably be sound. Because of its vastness Queensland is in a peculiar position in this respect. 
Yes, it could be more effectively applied in Queensland than in New South Wales because of the greater distances in Queensland between the proposed new capitals, Rockhampton and Townsville. It may be feasible to divide New South Wales into three States by creating two new States out of the New England and Riverina districts, whilst with equal justification the northern portion of Western Australia could be divided into two new States with their respective capitals at Wyndham or Derby and Carnarvon, or Gerald ton. Residents in the Rockhampton and Townsville districts favour the idea to create new States. Many conscientious men have, metaphorically speaking, " dipped their hats " to this suggestion when they have visited Rockhampton and Townsville, because it is believed in those cities that new States will eventually be established. Although this subject -is outside the ambit of the bill, I take this opportunity to inform  Senator Hardy  that residents in northern Queensland favour the proposal. 
I heartily support this measure.  Senator Sampson  stated that no member of the Senate would begrudge a single pound of the proposed grants to aid the smaller States. Any one who has read reports of earlier commissions that investigated this subject knows that Queensland is on the financial border-line, and senators of all parties should take steps to ensure that it is not pushed over the line, thus making a majority of the States applicants, for one reason or another, to this Government for financial assistance. 
. Honorable senators who have spoken on this measure have agreed that more has been done by this Government and its predecessor for those States which are badly off financially than has ever been done in this direction before. There can be no doubt about, that. It is gratifying to the smaller States that during recent years the amounts granted by this Government to them have regularly increased. Without necessarily accepting the views contained therein, we can congratulate the Commonwealth Grants Commission upon the very thorough and able report it has presented to this Parliament. It has gone into very many details. 
At this juncture I propose to deal with three points, two of which I hope to amplify on a future occasion. I am struck by the different attitudes adopted by various speakers when dealing with State disabilities. One might divide such speakers into two groups, one consisting of true federalists, who are not at all concerned with the States' view ; and the second, of out and out " State righters ". I hope that when honorable senators return to their respective States they will maintain the attitude they have adopted in this chamber. I am not certain that I myself adopt when speaking in South Australia an attitude altogether similar to that which I adopt here. When in South Australia my tendency is to defend the Commonwealth, whereas when speaking here, 1" endeavour to see that South Australia receives what I consider to be a fair deal at the hands of the Commonwealth. Much has been said to the effect that we all are Australians, the suggestion being that regardless of the States from which we come, we are similar. Nothing is further from the fact. I have travelled through all of the States in rapid succession, and nothing was more striking to me than to notice the different atmospheres and the different types of individuals in the various States. Starting with Tasmania, one finds there people of an admirable type, which is not duplicated in any part of Australia. Western Australians are more akin than people from other States to South Australians, but they are ex-  ceedingly  dissimilar from Queenslanders, Yow South Welshmen, and Victorians. Consequently, people who say thai we are all Australians, and infer from that apparently that we are all similar, overlook the fact that there are extreme and radical distinctions between the peoples of the different States. It follows from r.his that an honorable senator has a greater admiration for the State he represents and is naturally- insistent on its continuity. Although it is not very vocal a t the present time, there exists in South Australia a deep-seated dissatisfaction with the present situation. In the same way as Tasmania sees its young men and women leaving its shores for the great cities on the mainland, and the countryside sees its energetic young people making for the cities because the conditions of living and wages and educational and social amenities are better there, so population is shifting on a large scale between i lie States. At the present time there is great anxiety among manufacturers and their employees in South Australia - and I point this out particularly to members of the Labour party - arising from the fact that under our high protective policy, and under the present system of mass production which necessitates proximity to markets, the secondary industries which the smaller States carry on in a small degree, must inevitably be drawn away to the great centres of Melbourne and Sydney. That is a matter which this Parliament will have to face in the near future. 
I agree that so far as Tasmania is concerned it has been going on since federation, and that may have been the reason why criticism of the Commonwealth policy became vocal in Tasmania earlier than elsewhere. 
I am not suggesting the smashing of the federation, but I am convinced that the promotion of unification would aggravate it. A State which has very few secondary industries is naturally disturbed by the tendency of manufacturers to transfer to Sydney and Melbourne, and I remind honorable senators that South Australia had a policy of protection long before federation. Even the Tariff Board has pronounced that it is not proper for it to take into account anything but the best sites for the production of the commodities of a particular industry. That board, in considering claims put before it, has held that it cannot give special consideration to an industry if it is established at a spot unsuitable for the most economic production. 
The third and last point with which 1 propose to deal, and which has been emphasized in this debate, is the necessity for greater continuity in the making of these grants in the future. The recipient governments cannot .budget or make any plans for any lengthy period a.head when each year they have to wait to find out exactly what amount they are to receive by way of grant from this Parliament. Consequently they hardly dare to reduce what may even be crippling taxation for fear that future grants may be reduced. 1 do not propose at the moment to go into the -matter in detail. The commission has suggested that by next year it may be able to produce something in the nature of a sliding scale to determine the amount of future grants. To the ordinary individual the devising of such a scale does not appear difficult, because information with respect to grants made over the last- eight years is available for the purpose of making estimates. During that period, for instance, the average annual grants have been - South Australia, £940,000 ; Western Australia, £460,000 ; and Tasmania, £310,000. Surely with the figures for eight years to work on, it should be possible to arrive at some mean sum as a constant factor for a term of years, such mean sum to be varied either up or down as the circumstances prevailing in a particular year become apparent. This matter is of the greatest importance to the States. It is essential that State governments should be able to make their preparations for the future. Until they are enabled to do that there cannot be satisfaction in State governments. It is essential that they should have some definite idea as to the future. And what applies to governments applies, also, to the taxpayers of the States. A scheme providing for definite grants for a number of years would do more to stabilize opinion in the States than almost anything else that might be devised. Under existing conditions a unificationist government, even without a majority in both houses, could discontinue these grants to the States which now receive them. That is not a desirable possibility. I have always maintained that the Interstate Commission, should have beencontinued, as, indeed, the Constitution requires. It might be argued that an interstate commission, having once been appointed, the constitutional requirement has been met; but no. one will deny that the framers of the Constitution intended that an interstate commission should be permanently in existence. 
Had such a body been in continuous existence, it might have been possible before this to decide on a basis for continuous grants to the States. In saying that, I do not intend to reflect in any way on the present Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
I repeat that there are two outstanding factors which must not be overlooked. The first is the continual drain from the less-populous States to the two great cities of Australia. I do not speak with animus against those cities; but that concentration of population is bad for the whole of Australia. What has happened in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania, in regard to their secondary industries, will happen soon in Queensland, and then, I suppose, Queenslanders will become active in the matter. It would be better if they were to take action now, before it is too late.  Senator Brown  said that little or no mention has been made of causes during this debate; but I suggest that the tariff is one of the main causes of our troubles. When the honorable senator said that every primary industry should receive a fair return for its product,  Senator Cooper  properly interjected, "What about wool?" How are we to ensure a fair return to the grower of wool ? Has any attempt been made in that direction? The second factor is the importance of placing the grants to necessitous States on a more permanent basis. 
[10.4]. -  in reply-  This, debate has been most interesting, and I thank honorable senators for the friendly spirit in which the bills have been received. I was especially pleased to hear the welldeserved encomiums that have been expressed in respect of the work of the Com- monwealth Grants Commission. Any one who reads its report will agree that it is one of the best analyses of Commonwealth and State finance that has ever been prepared. It gives light and information, not Only on the subject of Commonwealth assistance to the States, but also on the vexed problem of the relations between Commonwealth and State finances generally. 

 Senator Dein was in error when he said that the bills do not provide that the necessitous States shall receive the full amounts recommended by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 

 Senator Allan MacDonald referred to the difficulties experienced by Western Australia in the development of the north-western portion of that State. I assure the honorable senator that the views of the commission on this subject have not escaped the notice of the Government. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson),  when he visited the Northern Territory recently, took the opportunity to visit the north-western portion of Western Australia, also, and, as a result of his visit, the Government will again examine and consider the best means of developing that territory. Some years ago. the Commonwealth Government proposed to the Government of Western Australia that the north-western portion of that State should be handed over to. the Commonwealth, which would assume responsibility for interest and sinking, fund, charges on the sum of about £3,000,000 which had been expended there by the State. At that time the Government of Western Australia did not see its way to accept the proposal. Obviously, with its small population, and limited funds, the State is- unable to develop that- portion of its vast territory. It would, I assume, be possible to evolve a scheme by which, in co-operation with die Commonwealth, the State could develop it; but the former scheme has one advantage not possessed by the latter, namely, that if the territory were under the control of the Commonwealth, it would be possible, under the Constitution, for the Commonwealth to give a specially low tariff to the north of Australia. That is not possible so long as that territory remains part of a State. 
That could be done; but I do not think that even  Senator Johnston  would expect Victoria and New South "Wales to agree to it. The Commonwealth Government will re-examine the proposal, and will no doubt confer with the Government of Western Australia on the matter later. 
I was pleased to hear  Senator Sampson's  speech. As a member of the Government which for several years has been endeavouring to do the right thing by Tasmania I have thought that its attempts in that direction were not appreciated.  Senator Sampson  gave the Government credit for having introduced legislation to amend the Navigation Act in order to enable tourists to visit Tasmania in greater numbers; for having arranged for a submarine telephone to Tasmania, as well as for an air service which, when working properly, gives the island State a mail on six days of each week; for an improved steamer service in Bass Strait, and for an increased grant from the Commonwealth. Most of the things for which Tasmania has agitated during recent years have been provided. 
Several honorable senators urged that grants to necessitous States should be placed on a more permanent footing. Whilst I admit that that would be more satisfactory to the States, I point out that the Commonwealth Grants Commission was unable to solve the difficulty, which is greater than is sometimes imagined. In the first place, the factors which determine the need are not fixed but vary from time to time. The cause; of those variations are set out in the report. There is another side to this problem - the federal side. The conditions of federal finance cannot be alto gether overlooked.  Federal  finance is no! a continuous quantity; the capacity of the Commonwealth to make grants is not static. The most important factor in the maintenance of Australian credit is the solvency of the Commonwealth. Ever since the Commonwealth assumed responsibility for the debts of the States the factor which determines Australia's credit in London - the world's financial centre - has been the financial position, not of the States, but of the Commonwealth. Therefore, any wise scheme to deal with the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States will recognize the fundamental fact that to maintain the credit of the Commonwealth is to maintain the credit of the States also. If Commonwealth finance is not sound, not only doe' the Commonwealth suffer, but every Statesuffers also. 
The report of the commission contains a fund of information as to the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States. That it is easy to generalize in these matters is made clear whenever there is" a conference of representatives of the Commonwealth and the States.  The  States might all agree on the gene: proposition that there should be an alteration of the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States, hut when it comes to deciding the details there is a different story to tell. For instance, many economists and financiers urge that the Commonwealth should retire from the field of income tax and leave it to the States.. 
If that were done, the Commonwealth would no longer be able to make grants to the States. 
If  Senator Johnston  examines the report, he will find that the retirement of the Commonwealth from the field of income taxation would suit New South Wales and Victoria admirably in that, instead of having deficits each year they would have enormous surpluses, but the three States which are the subject of these grants would  be placed in a much worse position than they are in to-day. The reason is made clear in  the  annual report of the Federal Commissioner of 
Taxation in which, he points out. that, the great bulk of the amount received at federal income tax is derived from NewSouth Wales and Victoria. Under the present system a large amount of the money that is raised in New South Wales and Victoria goes towards paying the grants to. the smaller States. Therefore, t he proposition that the Commonwealth should vacate the field of income tax, while it sounds enticing, is found upon examination to be calculated to make the position of the smaller States worse. The same difficulty is involved in all of the propositions that are made for an alteration of the financial alterations between the Commonwealth and the States. Honorable senators may generalize as much as they like, but a close study of the information contained in the report of the Commissioner of Taxation will disclose the correctness of my contention. The existing system is not perfect - indeed, in many respects, it is faulty - but it does to some extent balance and redress the difficulties that accompany the aggregation, not only of population, but also of wealth, in the two larger States. 
Possibly there is a solution, but the discussion of it would not be germane to the bill now before us. I invite honorable senators who have not fully studied the report of the Commissioner of Taxation to do so. It will be of assistance in the future when we are discussing financial problems. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
On the second reading, I referred to the action of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in imposing a penalty of £270,000 on Western Australia for having reduced its taxation, and I quoted from the speech delivered by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  when opening the Government's election campaign in Western Australia in 3.925. In announcing the first grant of £450,000 to Western Australia, by the Commonwealth, he recommended that the State Government, should apply that amount to the reduction of taxation. In accordance with that recommendation, the Western Australian Government, in 1926 reduced the income tax rate by 331/3 per cent. It is most inconsistent that, a few years afterthe State complied with the Commonwealth's wishes, the Commonwealth, through a tribunal of its own making, should impose a penalty on the State for the very action which it recommended. The initial grant was £450,000 for the first year and £300,000 for each of the succeeding four years. The penalty of £270,000 reduces to £30,000 the benefits- received by the State from the grant of £300,000. The Government, I know, is anxious to carry out the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission; but, if it thinks as I do, that that penalty is unjust, it will refuse to impose it. 
In paragraph 200 of the commission's report, it is clearly set out that the penalty of £270,000 is recommended for the sole reason that the State's taxation has been too low in comparison with the average rate for the whole of Australia. I hope that the Government will do justice to Western Australia. 
I am surprised at the attitude of the Ministry, in approving of this penalty of £270,000. An additional penalty of £140,000 for past errors in regard to land settlement has been imposed on Western Australia without justification. . If those two penalties were remitted, Western Australia would receive this year £1,210,000 instead of £800,000. 
1 have read the whole of the report most thoroughly, but the opinions expressed in paragraph 200 are unqualified. It is clear that Western Australia is being penalized to an amount of £270,000 for having reduced its taxes. Yet the reduction was made by the Western Australian Government in 3925 at the suggestion of the Commonwealth Government, following a recommendation by the Royal Commission on Taxation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 and 4 agreed to. 
 Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Speaking on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate last night,  Senator Allan  MacDonald made a scathing attack on the proposed reconstitution of the Australian Dairy Council and the Dairy Products Export Control Board, and suggested that, iu my capacity as the leader of Country party senators, I should prevail upon my friends in New South Wales to take a more federal view of the dairying industry. The honorable gentleman's criticism was based entirely on a misunderstanding of the facts, and his speech contained a number of serious inaccuracies. The honorable senator pointed out that at the annual meeting of the Australian Dairy Council, held in Sydney in. the week before last, it  motion was passed condemning the proposal and stated that all members of the council, with the exception of the representatives of New South Wales, voted against the proposed reorganization. Thus, it would be assumed that Western Australia is in favour of the maintenance of the council as at present constituted. The following lettergram, received by the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  to-day, throws an entirely different light on the position in that State.It reads as follows :  - 
Reported here Western Australia's representative Australian Dairy Council opposed to suggested co-ordination of activities Export Board and Dairy Council. Organized producers this State definitely support your suggested legislation ensuring adequate producer representation. (Signed) Primary Producers Association. 
 Senator Allan  MacDonald also pleaded that instead of wantonly destroying the present Dairy 
Products Export Control Board the position could he met by adding to it three or more producer representatives. Actually the board is not being wantonly destroyed. At present it is constituted as follows: - One representative of the Commonwealth; two representatives each from Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria; one representative each from Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia.; two representatives of the proprietary butter and cheese factories; one f.o.b. sellers' representative. Under the proposed reorganization scheme the board's powers will remain intact. In addition it will assume the powers of the Australian Dairy Council which is to be disbanded. The board's additional powers will be to advise the Australian Agricultural Council with regard to action to be taken by governments to improve the quality of dairy products, herds and pastures, or to deal with transport, new markets and the expansion .of existing markets. Not three but six producers are to be added. 

 Senator Allan MacDonald also referred to 'the re-organization of the industry by the appointment of .a mew Dairy Product* Export  Control Board to consist of six producer representatives. The honorable senator is not clear as to .the facts. As a matter of fact the proposal is to remove the f.o.b. sellers representative and add six producer representatives, so that the revised boar.d will be then constituted as follows: - 'One representative of the proprietary butter factories for the Commonwealth; one representative of cheese manufacturers for the Commonwealth; four representatives of co-operative butter factories, one each from New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland; six producer representatives, one from each State, to be nominated by the State governments after their election by the State Dairy Products Boards or the producers' organizations. 'There will also be an independent  chairman.  This will ensure more producer control, not less as suggested by  Senator Allan  MacDonald last night. The honorable senator criticized the proposal to appoint a permanent .committee to advise the new council and stated that as it would consist of the directors of agriculture in the several States, their re- commendations would influence the policy of the new council and lead to &amp; large measure of governmental control. I put it to the Senate that the members of these boards, being experienced in all phases of the industry, will not allow their judgment to be unduly influenced by recommendations from any committee, whether permanent or otherwise. It is difficult to understand what  Senator Allan  MacDonald really means. The Government does not propose the appointment of such a permanent committee to advise the board.  Senator Allan  MacDonald is apparently thinking of the standing committee on agriculture, a body composed of the executive of the Council for Scientific and. Industrial Research, and the directors of agriculture with a representative of the Department of Commerce, the function of which is to examine projects for submission to the Australian Agricultural Council to facilitate its work. The only other point with which I wish to deal is the statement of  Senator Allan  MacDonald that Western Australia would have only one representative on the council instead of two as previously. Let us examine his objection and see if it is justified. The States of South Australia and Western Australia are not self-supporting as regards butter production. Western Australia first exported in 1,9.31. In 1931-32, 1932-33 and 1933-34 Western Australia imported from the eastern States, 1,568, 1,637 and 1,498 tons respectively. In 1933-34 .the exports of the various States were as follows : - New South Wales. 26,445 tons; Victoria, 34,13S tons; Queensland, 43,778 tons; South Australia, 3,709 tons ; Western Australia, 982 tons. The honorable senator complained that under the reorganization Western Australia will have only one representative on the council instead of two as hitherto. Actually that State will have one direct representative of the producers. Under the old proposal it had one - not necessarily a producer - representative of the co-operative butter and cheese factories, so under the new arrangement the representation of Western Australian producers will actually be strengthened. 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
[11.22].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The exemptions proposed in this bill will provide relief from sales tax to the amount of £200,000 per annum, or about £150,000 for the remainder of this financial year. Including these exemptions, the sales tax relief provided in the form of exemptions by the financial relief legislation of 1932-35 will amount to approximately £2,400,000, and will embrace a field of goods, the final wholesale trade in which amounts to nearly £50,000,000 per annum. These figures are conservative, because they are based on the estimated trade in the goods affected at the respective times when the exemptions became operative. The actual trade in the exempted goods has been undoubtedly higher than the estimated trade when the goods were first exempted, and, if the statistics of trade in taxable goods can be taken as a guide, it is probable that the field now exempted by way of financial relief represents a final wholesale trade of at least £60,000,000 per annum, and relief from tax of at least £3,000,000 per annum. 
The extent and nature of the exemptions proposed by this bill are somewhat obscured by the complicated form of the bill. For the convenience of honorable senators, a classified list of the proposed exemptions, in abbreviated terms, has been circulated. 
I propose to deal with the exemptions in a general way, but, before doing so, I take this opportunity to announce that, later in this session, a bill will be brought down for the purpose of consolidating the sales tax exemptions into a single self-contained schedule, classified into groups and sub-groups of associated goods and numerically itemized. That scheme should commend itself to honorable senators and the trading community. The replacement of eight separate and unclassified schedules by one classified schedule should, of itself, be of great value to both taxpayers and the Taxation Department. Nothing more should be needed to justify the scheme than the complicated form of the bill now before the Senate. I do not intend to deal with the proposed exemptions in detail. The circulated list will give to honorable senators a good idea of the extent of the proposed relief. The list is composed principally of minor items the exemption of which is designed to remove direct competitive disabilities and certain other anomalies, both commercial and administrative. The most important of the proposed exemptions are - 
Containers for exempt goods. 
Goods for the use of public hospitals and public benevolent institutions and organizations. 
Pipes for drainage, sewerage, irrigation and water supply. 
Spectacles and aids to hearing. 
Sole leather for boot-repairing. 
The exemption of containers for exempt goods will remove what is probably the most troublesome feature of the tax, and will provide relief to taxpayers generally to the amount of about £40,000 per annum. The exemption of goods for public hospitals and charitable institutions will satisfy a claim which has been most strongly pressed since the inception of the tax. Such an exemption was originally considered to be impracticable because of policing difficulties. It has now reached the practicable stage, because of the extensive exemptions which have already been unconditionally granted in respect of goods commonly used by such institutions. 
The general exemption of pipes will remove the anomalies which at present exist in consequence of the limited exemptions of galvanized water pipes. These anomalies have several times been brought prominently under notice during debates on sales tax measures. Claims for the exemption of concrete and other pipes have until now been refused because of the loss of revenue involved. Even now it is not possible to provide for ; the  exemption of piping accessories, such as water taps and other house connexions, and, for this reason, it is probable that certain minor anomalies will still exist. The exemption of sewerage pipes will be of considerable assistance at this juncture, because of the widespread growth of sewerage works at present taking place, or in contemplation in several States. 
The exemption of spectacles and aids to hearing will remove from the taxable field what are practically the only articles in- general use for the alleviation of human infirmities that now remain in that field. 
The exemption of sole leather for bootrepairing will provide relief to what is, generally speaking a struggling section of the business community, without imposing burdens on any other section. At the same time, the exemption will not give rise to any appreciable administrative difficulties. 
The items mentioned, and every other item on the list of proposed exemptions, have been selected only after the most careful investigations covering a' considerable period. These investigations were directed to the selection and framing of exemptions in such a way as to achieve relief from tax without imposing competitive burdens or creating serious commercial and administrative difficulties. For these reasons, the Government is not prepared at this juncture to agree to any additions to the exemptions proposed by this bill. Should any honorable senator desire to bring under notice any claims for additional exemptions, he may rest assured that the claims will be noted and carefully examined. Another reason why the Government is not prepared to agree to any additions to the exemptions proposed in the bill is that it must look at the subject of exemptions and remissions of taxation of all kinds as a whole and weigh carefully the relative benefits which any proposed remissions would confer on the community generally. The Government's decisions in this respect are set out in the budget speech. The Government is conscious that this list of exemptions could be greatly added to with considerable benefit to the community. However, it is obvious that if the government exempted a certain class of goods merely because by so doing it would bestow a great benefit on certain taxpayers, the list of exemptions from sales tax would become so long that remissions of other taxes would have to be refused. Thus, in making any proposals, I suggest that honorable senators should bear in mind that we have to consider, not merely the benefits or the wisdom of making particular exemptions, but also, as the Government has done in this instance, the general scheme of relief from taxation embodied in the budget. If the list of exemptions proposed in the bill were extended the general balance of the Government's taxation relief scheme would be upset, with the result that the budget would have to be reviewed. In comparing the relative benefits to the economic life of the community resulting from remissions of sales tax and, remissions from, say, tax on income from property, one has to consider to what extent each would, for instance, relieve unemployment by encouraging the investment of capital in industry. I therefore appeal to honorable senators who, doubtless, will be able to suggest many welcome additions to the list of exemptions, to bear in mind what I have said, and I again give them an assurance that any proposals which they may make will receive the most sympathetic consideration. I trust, however, that the Senate will allow the decision to rest with the Government for the reasons which I have given. I emphasize that every exemption from sales tax has to be considered not alone from the point of view of the benefit which it would confer upon a certain section of the people, hut also in the light of its probable effect on related items, and the possibility of creating anomalies. Some of the exemptions now being added are for the purpose of removing anomalies caused by previous exemptions. It has been shown that some exemptions which appeared to be quite admirable and straightforward caused all sorts of anomalies, which are now being corrected. 
.  -  The Opposition approaches the consideration of this measure from an angle entirely different from that of the Government. There is a fundamental difference between the taxation policy of the Opposition and that of the Ministry. 
We on this side stand definitely for the principle of direct taxation as against indirect taxation, 'because "we realize that when people pay direct taxes they know exactly what amount of burden is being placed upon their shoulders, whereas under a system of indirect taxation such as the sales tax, traders may put both their hands in the pockets of the people and rob them indiscriminately. It is not possible to estimate the amount of villainy or philantrophy as the case may be, behind taxes imposed in that form: 
Order ! The honorable senator must withdraw the word " villainy ". 
The crucial test of all taxation measures is not the amount levied on the individual, but the amount left in his pockets after the tax collector has finished with him. It is all very well for some honorable senators to plead that certain sections of the community are being heavily taxed, and are therefore entitled to relief. Why should they not be taxed if they are able to bear it? It should also be remembered that when the sales tax was introduced as part of the Scullin Government's financial emergency legislation, there were then in operation other taxes which were not affected by the emergency proposals, and a definite promise was given by the Government, and by all parties in both branches of the legislature, that immediately the financial position of the Commonwealth improved sufficiently, all financial emergency taxes would be repealed. That promise has not been honoured. The Government has made excessive remissions of those other taxes to which I have alluded, without giving a full measure of relief to those who were so directly  affected by  the emergency taxes. In other words, it has granted concessions amounting to millions of pounds annually to its wealthy supporters. We believe that before those remissions were made, the whole of the special taxes on the poorer sections of the community should have been repealed. Are we to assume, from the Government's disregard of a solemn undertaking, that political promises are mere scraps of paper, to be treated as "piecrust promises" when the time comes for their redemption? If the promises of the Government and all political parties had been observed there would have been, before now, a complete restoration of all pension payments to the amount of £1 per week, the amount that was being paid prior to the enactment of the financial emergency legislation, our public servants' salaries would have been restored to their former level, and the sales tax would have been repealed. 
Another reason why the sales tax should be abolished is that, in addition to its being an  harrassing  imposition on business people, it is difficult to administer. It is harassing, not so much because of the amount of tax involved, as because of -the difficulty in ascertaining the amount really payable. 
Does the honorable senator think that the onus of making returns should not be placed on industry? 
The honorable senator is one of the few taxpayers who understand their assessments! 
I have specified the vital and fundamental differences of principle in regard to taxation which are embodied in the policies of the Government and the Opposition. I waste no sympathy on a man with an income of £10,000 a year who is compelled to pay a large amount in taxes, for even after he has paid to the Treasury several thousand pounds a year, he still has a large income - it may be £20, or even £S0 a week- left. I would rather be the champion of the rights of those 380,000 workers in Australia who have no income whatever. They should not be subject to any form of taxation - not even the unemployment tax. 
I have endeavoured to set out the basic principles which should underlie our consideration of the sales tax. For the benefit of honorable senators, I shall summarize them. They are first, that the burden of taxation should be placed where it rightly belongs secondly, that what matters is not so much what is taken from a man in taxes as what is left to him; and thirdly, that all financial emergency taxes, including the sales tax, should be abolished before taxes which were previously in force are remitted. The compact made with the people has not been kept, for the Government has remitted taxation which was in operation for many years before the imposition of the financial emergency legislation. Not one pound of land tax, or any other tax which existed prior to the passing of the emergency legislation, should have been remitted until the compact with the people had been honoured. The Opposition will support the bill, and it hopes that the Government will continue to increase the exemptions and decrease the rate of the tax until it and all other financial emergency legislation has been entirely abolished. 
I listened attentively to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  in the hope that I would hear from him a clear statement of the policy of the Australian Labour party in regard to taxation. I wanted to know whether it believes in high taxation or in low taxation; hut at the conclusion of the honorable senator's speech I am still as much in the dark as ever. The only point that the honorable senator made clear was that in his opinion the sales tax should be wiped out. The honorable senator did not suggest any means by which &amp; similar amount of revenue could be raised. Are not taxes a part of the national income, and do not debates on taxation involve a question as to whether national income should be spent collectively or individually? It is a noteworthy fact that those countries which have imposed high rates of taxes during the depression have emerged much more rapidly from the financial morass than those which imposed lower taxes. Taxation in the United States of America, the Dutch East Indies, New Zealand, and Fiji has been comparatively low, and all those countries are dragging along the road to recovery, while Great Britain and Australia, the two countries which have made a more speedy recovery than any others have been highly taxed 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  admitted that the Australian Labour party believed in direct taxation, but was opposed to indirect taxation. Will some honorable senator define " indirect taxation ?" I suggest that any industry maintaining prices bya stabilization scheme is leading directly towards indirect taxation. How can any honorable senator representing Queensland say that he is opposed to indirect taxation, and at the same time support the ratification of the sugar agreement? Australian sugar is sold at a stabilized price. If we debate this subject from an economic standpoint, we have to admit that stabilized prices result in indirect taxation. 
Immediately a home consumption price for butteris fixed the Australian price of that product is increased. That increase in the general price level is equivalent to a sales tax imposed on goods sold over the counter. In both cases the price level will rise. We have to admit that when prices are increased as a result of any such arrangement the increased price is equivalent to an indirect tax. I suppose that  Senator Johnston,  who is definitely a low-tariffist, and in fact almost a freetrader, would say that the imposition of customs duties is a tax upon the people of Western Australia. 
Customs duties are regarded as indirect taxes, but immediately a tariff schedule comes before Parliament the members of the Labour party endeavour to increase duties to the highest possible level. 
The members of the Country party believe in the imposition of reasonable customs duties to protect secondary industries and primary producers. Most governments would remit all taxes if they could carry on without them. This Government cannot afford to do that unless there is a surplus, and in every such instance taxes have been remitted in an endeavour to assist distressed sections of the community. 
I contradict flatly the statement of the Leader of the Opposition that in remitting taxation the Government has shown discrimination in the interest of the wealthy. If discrimination has been shown, it has been in an endeavour to assist industry over the stile. I read recently a speech delivered by the Treasurer inthe House of Representatives giving an elaborate analysis of remissions of taxes, showing that greater remissions have been made in respect of those less able to pay the taxes than to those who pay the Companies Tax. If this country is able to continue along the road to recovery and revenue increases, further remissions of taxes will be made, but the only thing to do is to wait until that is possible. 
 I am pleased to know that those engaged in rural industries are to receive further benefits by additional remissions of the sales tax. In response to the intimation by the Leader of the Sena te  (Senator Pearce)  that he would be willing to receive suggestions regarding individual items with a view to their consideration at some future date. I direct his attention to the position of those engaged in the production of egg pulp, not only in Western Australia, but also in other parts of the Commonwealth. I have received the following communication from Western Australia, directing my attention to a recent decision of the Commissioner of Taxation - 
During the export season very large quantities of egg pulp are produced and sold in tin containers. For the past years, sales tax has not been paid on these containers, but the Commissioner of Taxation has now ruled that egg pulp in itself is not exempt from sales tax, thus the industry here is placed in an invidious position. 
The decision of the Commissioner of Taxation will have a serious effect upon the industry. Such products as egg pulp consumed locally and fruit juices should be exempt from the sales tax. Those who handle egg pulp and egg producers generally will be affected severely by this decision. Sales tax not having previously been charged on containers the decision of the commissioner means that the tax will now be imposed on previous sales, and agents handling this product will be liable for a fairly substantial sum. I  hope that this reasonable request will be complied with. I support the bill. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has outlined very clearly the attitude of the Labour party in respect of taxation generally. During the debate  Senator Foll  asked if the workers paid taxes. As a member of a socialist organization in my early days, I was associated with  Mr. Hyndman  and  Mr. Quelch,  and participated in intense arguments on the subject of who actually pays the taxes imposed. At our gatherings we argued on such subjects as the iron law of wages, and agreed that who ever paid the taxes imposed, the workers received only sufficient to provide them with a poor living. The workers do not receive sufficient to maintain a decent standard of living, and we have to determine the extent to which their wages are affected by taxation. It is an old saying that prices go up by the lift and wages by the stairs. Prices can be affected by taxation and rise very rapidly, but it is always a long time before there is a corresponding increase of wages to enable the workers to pay the higher prices. The members of the Labour party are always anxious to maintain a high standard of living for the workers, and to ensure that taxation shall be paid by those best able to bear it. The Government and those supporting it are always anxious to remove the burden of taxation from the wealthy section and to place it upon the workers. As the invalid and old-age pensioners were taxed to the extent of 25 per cent. of their income, I should like to ask  Senator Grant,  who has had considerable experience as a payer of income tax, if he has ever had to pay an emergency tax of 25 per cent. of his income. The invalid and old-age pensioners had a 25 per cent. tax placed on their pension of£1 a week, which was reduced to 15s. a week. 
Then my memory must be defective. 
I am open to correction, but my firm belief is that the pension was cut to 15s. a week in certain circumstances, and then increased to 17s. 6d., and now to 18s. 
That is so, and the Labour party's agitation forced the Government to introduce amending legislation to increase the pension to 17s. 6d. 
Prior to the enactment of the Premiers plan the pensioners received £1 a week; but subsequently, full rate of pension for a person without property or other income was made 15s. a week. 
I am constantly reminded by interjection that the Scullin Government did this, that and the other; but the Scullin Government had the assistance of honorable senators opposite when it took certain action to save the Commonwealth's solvency in a period of national emergency. When the supporters of the present Government aided the Scullin Government in these emergency measures, they pledged themselves to return to the pensioners the full amount of their pension so soon as the finances of the country enabled the restoration to be made. Instead of carrying out their pledges, Government supporters are standing four-square behind the Government in its remissions of millions of pounds of taxes to the wealthy sections of the community. 
I am saying that the pension has been increased to 18s. a week; but also that the invalid and oldage pensioners are' still being unjustifiably taxed 2s. a week. 
I contend that, before granting remissions of sales tax, the Government should do justice to the invalid and old-age pensioners. In the two years 1932-33 and 1933-34, the Lyons Government remitted to payers of land tax an amount of £2,000,000 and to the payers of the tax on income from property an amount of £1,880,000. The following table shows the annual recurring remissions of taxes to the favoured sections of the community: - 

<graphic href="147332193510246_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Government has made those remissions in the face of its promise that invalid and old-age pensions would take precedence in any scheme of restoration. 
Some of them are emergency taxes, but many are not. My contention is that the Government has reduced the emergency taxes imposed on wealthy interests, but has neglected to carry out its duty to the aged poor. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has described the sales tax as a vexatious measure full of complexities and anomalies. I agree with him entirely. The business community objects to the sales tax on those grounds. Taxation, instead of being vexatious and complex, should be made as simple as possible. That is why I support the contention of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Collings)  that taxes should be imposed directly instead of indirectly.  Senator Hardy  declared that because the Labour party supports direct taxation it should not support a high tariff. That is a most puerile argument, typical of the arguments of the honorable senators supporting the Government. The Labour party believes in the tariff because it believes in the development of the internal industries of Australia. It believes also in the taxation of those persons best able to bear it. Without wishing to be in any way personal,  Senator Johnston  is an example of the class better able to bear taxation than the invalid or old-age pensioner, who is at present suffering a tax of 2s. a week. As a Christian,  Senator Johnston  should admit that he should be taxed rather than the poor pensioner. 
I have made a convert. If the supporters of the Government believed that, they would have taken steps to remove the tax from the pensioners. 
If we can obtain a few more converts we shall do fairly well.  Senator Hardy,  in a laboured argument regarding direct taxation, referred to the sugar industry and the tax placed on the Australian public by the internal stabilization of that industry. If all industries were similarly stabilized, there would be an improvement in the economic position. I do not understand how a Country party leader can contend that the stabilization of the sugar industry amounts to direct taxation of the people. 
If the honorable senator argues that stabilization of industry means taxation of the people, he is reducing the English language to an absurdity. 
The Labour party believes that by increasing wages and by giving an impetus to the production of commodities by the creation of a greater demand, the workers will be assisted to a higher standard of living. The existing economic system possesses certain elasticity ; if the demand for consumable goods is increased, an impetus is given to the economic machine to produce more goods, and that can be done with little or no increase of overhead costs. The Labour movement has a definite objective and that is the stabilization of all industries in order to give to the producers the full reward of their toil. I am pleased that the Government is gradually eliminating the sales tax because business men have said that they would rather pay the same amount of taxation in a different way. The head of a prominent business firm in Brisbane told me that he would be prepared to pay £1,000 more on a turnover tax than he is paying to-day as sales tax under present conditions. There must be something radically wrong with a tax of this nature when business men adopt such an attitude. 
They object to being continually harassed by the department and also to the anomalies and stupidities of the tax. It would be a good thing for the business community of Australia if sales tax were eliminated altogether. After all the community pays the tax now in a particular way, and there should be no objection to levying the tax in a different way. The same people will have to pay it either way. I am aware that such a suggestion in respect of income tax would not be approved by those who are always anxious to place the burden of income tax on the shoulders of the workers. We commend the Government on this measure, in so far as it adds to the list of exemptions from sales tax goods which are needed by the farmers. If such exemptions should result in a reduction of costs, particularly to the primary producers, who have suffered so severely during the last few years, they will be more than warranted. I notice that rugs for sheep and pigs are to be exempted. I ask the Leader of the Go vernment in the Senate whether it is intended to exempt from sales tax rugs which are used by human beings? 
Two years ago in Brisbane a deputation of master tailors waited upon  Senator Collings,  the member for Brisbane  (Mr. George Lawson)  and myself, and pointed out that it was not fair that they should have to pay sales tax on handmade suits. I do not know whether the Government intends to exempt tailormade suits, but this deputation strongly urged that such an exemption be made. 
I believe tailormade suits, as manufactured articles, are subject to sales tax. These gentlemen contended it was not fair to levy the tax on the finished article, the price of which included wages and other overhead charges, and that it would be far preferable and more just to tax the material only. I hope the Leader of the Government in the Senate will make inquiries into this matter. 
This tax originally applied to wholesale goods. The tax on the value of the cloth would not be so high as that on the retail value of the suit. The master tailors to whom I have referred pointed out that at present sales tax is levied on the cost of a tailormade suit, say £8, instead of, as it should be, on the value of the cloth, which would be about £3. They also said that such a procedure made it more difficult for those tailors who employed hands to compete with those who sold shoddy machine-made suits. I ask the Leader of the Senate to investigate this claim. I understand that when replying to arguments on this matter in the House of Representatives, the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  said that the Government had received numerous telegrams from the master tailors of Sydney - manufacturers of machine-made suits - protesting against any reduction of the sales tax on tailor-made suits. I do not know whether honorable senators are of the opinion that the Government should be subjected to pressure of this kind. While my colleagues and I commend this bill in so far as it represents another step in the removal of a tax which was originally imposed as an emergency measure, we claim that the Government is not honouring its promises to supporters of the Premiers plan that certain emergency sacrifices imposed on the poorer sections of the community would be the first to be lifted when the financial position warranted any remission. I refer particularly to the invalid and oldage pensioners. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has asked honorable* senators to indicate items which the Government might include in any future list of exemptions. I have received the following telegram from the Lord Mayor of Hobart (Or. Wignall)  and the Mayor of Launceston (Or. Von Bibra) : - 
Civic conference Hobart Launceston yesterday carried following resolution: - "That as city and municipal councils are agents of the Government in respect of matters connected with local government delegated to them by Parliament and the State Government is exempt from the payment of sales tax the Federal Government be requested to extend a similar exemption to such councils. Strongly urge favorable consideration." 
I ask the Government to consider this request when providing for further exemptions from sales tax in the future. The position of city and municipal councils in this matter is clearly indicated in the telegram which I have just read, and I heartily support their request. In Tasmania and, no doubt, in all States, these councils are doing a good deal of work on behalf of this Government. Goods, such as plant, &amp;c, which would be exempt from sales tax if the Government itself carried out the work should also be exempt when the work iscarried out on behalf of the Government by city and municipal councils.. 
I am particularly pleased to see that this measure exempts from sales tax containers of exempt goods. I brought up this matter in the Senate some time ago in connexion with goods used by farmers; for instance, containers of sprays, after the spray itself has been used, are of no further use. 
Anomalies exist with respect to the exemption of biscuits. . I notice that another kind of biscuit - shortbread biscuits and shortbread products - are made exempt under this measure. I fail to see any special reason for the exemption of this particular kind of biscuit in preference to many other varieties which still bear tax. Many classes of biscuits already exempt are mainly used by children, but I am not aware that shortbreads are so used. 
Another item which will be exempt under this measure is, "Anhydrous ammonia and calcium chloride for use in refrigerating plants in cool stores . for fruit ". I ask why only such material as is used solely in cool stores for fruit is exempt? Why should not similar material used in refrigerating plants for meat and other products also be exempt ? I suggest that an anomaly exists here. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.30 p.m. 

I hope that when the Leader of the Senate is replying he will furnish some information with regard to the exemption of anhydrous ammonia and calcium chloride, because these chemicals are used in many cool stores in Tasmania for the storage of not only fruit but also other commodities, including hops and meat. We all admit that the Government requires the revenue provided by the sales tax, but I hope that something can be done to lessen the amount of work required of wholesale merchants in the furnishing of returns. In some cases a highly-paid clerk is engaged exclusively in the preparation of returns for sales tax purposes, because it is necessary to have separate invoices for goods that are exempt and those that are not. Very often also there is a difference of opinion even among officials of the department about the liability of certain goods for tax. I have made representations to the department in respect of one or two items, and have been informed that the best way to get a decision is for the objecting taxpayer to refuse to pay the tax. The department will then take action in the courts. One objection to that course is that no person likes to be haled before  the courts as if he were a transgressor, and if the decision went against the department, the probability is that there would be an appeal to the High Court, thus making it almost impossible for the average trader to defend his action. Something should be done without delay to make clear the position in respect of a number of items, and if the department could lessen the amount of work in connexion with the preparation of returns, traders would very much appreciate its action. 
With other honorable senators I regret that the financial position of the Commonwealth does not permit of an extension of the list of exempt goods. As the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  stated, the intention of the bill is to remove many of the existing anomalies due to the earlier exemption of certain goods to simplify the administration and, as far as may he possible, eliminate some of the clerical work required of those who are liable to pay sales tax. My principal purpose, in rising, is to correct certain statements made by  Senator Brown  when dealing with pensions. The honorable senator said that all pensioners had been subject to a reduction of 25 per cent, under the financial emergency legislation. While the honorable senator was speaking, I interjected that his figures were wrong, and I now produce information supplied by the statistical department in support of my view. Prior to the introduction of the financial emergency legislation in 1931, the maximum pension paid was £1 a week, and 87 per cent, of pensioners received that amount. Following the passage of that legislation, all pensions - full pensions and part pensions - were reduced by 2s. 6d. a week, thus making the maximum pension payable 17s. 6d. a week, or 35s. a fortnight, and 88 per cent, of the pensioners drew that amount. As the result of amendments to the Pensions Act, made by the Lyons Government in 1932, the maximum pension remained at 35s. a fortnight, but certain deductions were made in the case of pensioners in receipt of other income. 
That is just the point which  Senator Brown  would not admit. As I have stated, the maximum pension remained at 35s. a fortnight and 67 per cent, of pensioners drew that amount. 
 Senator Brown  stated definitely that every pension was reduced by 5s. a week. I deny the accuracy of that statement. In June, 1931, the average pension paid was 38s. 4d. a fortnight. Later in the same year, after the financial emergency legislation had been passed, the average pension was 33s. 3d. a fortnight, an average reduction of 5s. Id. a fortnight for each pensioner. Subsequently, following amendments to the law, made by the Lyons Government, the average pension was 31s. lOd. a fortnight, a reduction of ls. 5d. a fortnight or S£d. a week, although  Senator Brown  contended that the reduction was 5s. a week. In 1934, the average pension was 33s. 8d. a fortnight, and in 1935, 33s. 7d. Strange to relate, in June, 1934, there was a higher percentage of pensioners in receipt of the maximum pension than at any other time since the inauguration of the pensions system. I do not think that  Senator Brown  would wilfully misrepresent the position, but I deplore his lack of knowledge, and I regret that the reduction of pensions, due to financial emergency, has been made the football of party politics. Certain members representing New South Wales have misrepresented the position, but I did not think that similarly misleading statements would be made by the representative of another State. The figures which I have quoted are taken from the statistical records and therefore are unchallengable. 
I am pleased that the Government is extending the list of exemptions from sales tax. The bill represents a remission of sales tax, for the remainder of this year, of £150,000 and for a full year, £2*00,000. It would be still more gratifying if further relief had been given, especially in view of the enormous revenue which successive governments have received from the financial emergency legislation passed a few years ago. The sales tax was introduced during the depth of the depression when  the Government of the day was faced with a prospective deficit of £10,000,000. As the total revenue from this source last year was £8,500,000 the relief now proposed is comparatively infinitesimal. I regard sales taxation as little short of legalized robbery. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. lynch).  - Order! The honorable senator must not reflect upon legislation passed by the Parliament, unless the purpose i3 to urge its repeal. 
I will say that the sales tax is a most harassing impost on the community. Since its introduction in 1931, it has returned to the Commonwealth Government a total revenue of £43,893,000,. made up as follows:- 1931-32, £8,425,000 ; 1932-33, £9,369,000; 1933-34, £S,695,000; 1934-35, £8,554,000. The estimate for this year is £8,850,000. It was passed by the Senate on the distinct understanding that it was to be an emergency measure and would be repealed as soon as possible. Up to the end of this year nearly £44,000,000 has been taken from industry by this tax. The best way to ensure work for our unemployed and to rehabilitate industry is to reduce all direct or indirect taxes which oppress the citizens of the Commonwealth. I refer particularly to the tariff, the sales tax, income tax, and the super income tax which are the most objectionable forms of taxation. I support the bill. My only regret is that it does not provide further exemptions. 
This indirect tax is objectionable because it has to be paid by people who may have no income. It is levied on those who are least able to bear it. I note with pleasure that goods used in public hospitals and benevolent institutions have at last been exempted. I commend the Government for acceding to the requests of honorable senators in this connexion, and also for granting a further small amount of relief to the agricultural and pastoral industries. 
I rise now only because I may not have an opportunity in committee to express my gratification at some of the exemp tions from sales tax which are embodied in this measure. I am particularly pleased that fruit-picking bags and sole leather used for repairing boots and shoes are no longer to be subject to sales tax. As a member of the Empire Parliamentary Association 1 visited Canada in 1928, and although in various cities and towns of that dominion I met many members of the boards of trade, which are the Canadian equivalents of the Australian chambers of commerce, at no place did I hear any one say a good word for the sales tax which had been in operation in the dominion for many years, having been introduced as a wartime emergency measure. I can understand taxation officials approving of this tax because to. them it is " easy money ".  Mr. Jones,  theCanadian representative who came toAustralia on loan to a previous government to advise it in relation to the sales tax, said that the tax was popular in Canada because it was so simple. Thesales tax may be simplicity itself to thetaxation officials, but to the average business man it is a veritable nightmare. It is a most complicated tax, and' is a constant source of worry and expense. The very fact that the Commissioner has had to publish some hundreds of rulings is evidence of its complicated nature. Like other honorablesenators I look forward to the day when this tax will no longer exist in Australia. That there has been no great agitation by chambers of commerce and big business concerns for the repeal of this legislation is easy to understand. The tax in many cases means additional profits tothem, although it imposes a heavy burden on men in business in a small way whocannot pass it on. For instance, throughout Australia there are thousands of men who earn their livelihood by repairingboots and shoes. They are unable tobuy leather in large quantities, and asthe merchants will not be bothered with fractions of a penny these smaller men have to pay higher prices than are justified by the tax. The merchants rendertheir returns to the department on their sales over a period, thereby making handsome profits out of their small customers.. Although the sales tax was- imposed asan emergency measure and was to beabolished at the earliest possible moment,. 
I see little or no chance of its repeal in the near future. One Minister told me recently that the sales tax was " a real money spinner ". The tax may he satisfactory as a means of raising revenue for the Commonwealth, hut' the man who carries the hurden thinks otherwise. It is particularly irksome in that the man who pays the tax has to prepare the returns and furnish the particulars required by the department. I hope that I shall live to see this legislation removed from the statute-book ;. but, in view of the present condition of the finances' of the Commonwealth, I am afraid that it will remain with us for a long time. I welcome the measure of relief which has been granted. 
On this occasion I find myself somewhat in agreement with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  for I, too, look forward to the time when the sales tax will no longer be in operation. But I realize that in the present state of the Commonwealth finances the tax cannot be removed, because the Government needs the money it provides in order to meet the expenses of the year. It would be impossible at this stage to abandon the tax altogether. 
I support the request of  Senator Grant  for the exemption from sales tax of materials required by municipalities and shire councils for road-making and roadrepairing purposes. In the far west and north of Queensland, where there are no railways, road transport is of vital importance to the settlers. 
I am concerned chiefly with the tax on road-graders and tractors. I have in mind the recent purchase by the Winton Shire Council of a grader and a tractor to be used solely in the making and maintenance of roads which are feeders to railways. The sales tax on that machinery places a burden on the ratepayers of the shire. In my opinion there should be no sales tax on any of the materials or plant required to make and maintain roads which are not in competition with railways. 
Recently the Rockhampton Harbour Board purchased a tug. As Rockhampton is not a government harbour, the hoard is liable to pay a considerable sum as sales tax on the cost of the tug. The revenue of the 'board is derived chiefly from the export of wool, and any additional cost due to the sales tax is passed on to the primary producers and increases their already high production costs. I should like to see some assistance given to the Rockhampton Harbour Board and other similar bodies by exempting from sales tax the machinery they require. 
 I rise to support the bill and to express gratification at the exemptions from sales tax for which it provides. Like many other honorable senators, I look forward to the time when the Commonwealth will vacate this field of taxation altogether; but I realize that it is impossible to do so at this juncture, when so many claims for relief are made upon the Commonwealth Government by different sections of the community. This form of taxation is particularly unpopular with business people because it is so intricate that much time is wasted in preparing returns and satisfying the officers of the department who are sent to make investigations. I do not know if this tax is supposed to he paid by any particular section of the community, or if it is expected that it shall be borne by all; but we all realize that it is eventually paid by the consumers. It has been suggested to me that some alteration should be made, and that, perhaps, a similar amount could be collected in the form of customs duties. I realize "the difficulties associated with such a change, but I trust that the Government will consider the suggestion, and see if the revenue cannot be raised in some other way. Numerous instances of injustice have been brought under my notice, including those mentioned by  Senator Brown  in connexion with the tailoring trade, and I am inclined to agree with the honorable senator that this aggravating tax affects that section of traders most unfairly. It is not only the aggravating and pin-pricking nature of the tax that is objected to, but also the trouble and expense incurred in the compiling of the necessary returns to comply with the law. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External 
Affairs) [3.2].  -  in reply  - I assure honorable senators that the representations made during the debate have been carefully noted by the departmental officers present, and that they will be considered when it is practicable to make further remissions. Honorable senators have mentioned the cost and worry incurred by individual traders. I can only say that the grouping of items in the new lists will save some time on the part of those conducting searches. I admit that such a concession is not great, but it may afford some small measure of relief to worried taxpayers. 
The representations for the exemption of all goods purchased by municipal councils, local government authorities, and quasi-governmental bodies have been carefully considered by the Government. In 1933, and again in 1934, careful consideration was given to these claims, and lists of bodies necessarily affected were compiled for the information of the Government. These lists included the following bodies : - 
Municipal and shire councils, numbering over 1,000. 
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works and water works bodies in Victoria to the number of 105. 
Sydney Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board and similar boards in New South Wales and other States. 
Harbour and tramway boards and trusts. 
On both occasions, the Government decided that it could not afford to sacrifice the very large amount of revenue involved. The list of exemptions in the bill represents the limit to which the Government can go in respect of sales tax remissions. The estimated amount of tax that would be involved in exempting goods used by local governments and quasigovernmental bodies is £100,000 per annum, and the Government is not in  a  position to lose such a large amount of revenue. This matter will,, however, be further considered by the Government. 

 Senator Grant referred to shortbread biscuits and shortbread products. As I stated in moving the second reading of the bill, a great majority of the exemptions provided in the bill are designed to remove anomalies and difficulties associated with existing exemptions. 
The exemption of shortbread biscuits is designed to remove a commercial anomaly and an administrative difficulty. Under the existing exemption of "Pastry and Cakes", shortbread products, which are cakes and are not, in fact, biscuits, are exempt from sales tax, and pastrycooks generally are not required to register for sales tax purposes. Biscuit manufacturers have complained that whilst their shortbread products are subject to tax, the shortbread products of pastrycooks are exempt, and have asked that the anomaly be rectified. There is no doubt that the shortbread products of biscuit manufacturers are biscuits, but the Taxation Department has extreme difficulty in determining, even after investigation, whether some at least of the shortbread products of the pastrycooks are cakes or biscuits. In order to remove this administrative difficulty, and to rectify the competitive anomaly, the Government had to choose between two courses - 
to require pastrycooks to register and pay tax on their shortbread products, which would, probably, be the only goods on which they would pay tax, or 
to exempt all shortbread products. 
The Government chose the latter, and what is considered the wiser course, which, in addition to removing the anomalies previously referred to, will grant a certain amount of relief in respect of the tax on biscuits. The following biscuits which are used generally for infants and invalids are exempt: - 
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits. 
Baby Rice Biscuits. 
Baby Rusks. 
Allenbury's Diabetic Rusks. 
Allenbury's Malted Rusks for infants. 
Caillard's Casoid Biscuits. 
Gluten Biscuits. 
Maltovine Milk Food Biscuits. 
Ovaltine Rusks. 
The Government is considering the remission of the tax on all biscuits, but at present that is impracticable. The Government will give close attention to the representations made in this chamber, and in the House of Representatives, and also by various public bodies. It is hoped that in the next budget the Government may be able to make provision for some further relief. This is a most unpopular tax, and no one would be more pleased than the members of the Government if it could be repealed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Exemptions - sales tax amendment). 
Can special consideration be given to the Broome pearl fishers in re-equipping their vessels which were so severely damaged last March? Will they have to pay sales tax on the equipment they require? 
As certain registered wholesalers have to pay a higher rate of sales tax than unregistered retailers importing similar goods, principally from the United Kingdom, the registered traders are able to sell goods at a lower price than registered wholesalers. Can that position be dealt with in this bill? 

 Senator Sir George Pearce. No. 
Clause  agreed  to. 
Clauses 5 to 9 agreed to. 
Title  agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
Last year the Commonwealth Government voted to the States, as a special aid to their budgets, ?2,000,000 from its accumulated surpluses. That money was apportioned to the States on a population basis, and Tasmania, I think, received about ?70,000. This year the Commonwealth Government apparently is not in the same happy financial position as it was in last year, and is able to spare only ?500,000 for a special grant to the States. The bill sets out the amounts which each State will receive, and I notice that Tasmania is not to participate. I should like the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to explain why Tasmania is not to share in the distribution. I understand that the Commonwealth Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  this year imposed as a condition of the grant that each State government should undertake to reduce its deficit by an amount equivalent to its share of the Commonwealth contribution, plus a like amount to be found from State resources. All the State Treasurers, with the exception of the Treasurer of Tasmania,  Mr. Dwyer  Gray, accepted that condition. He apparently rejected it with disdain; he would not undertake to obtain from State sources ?17,000 - the equivalent of the Commonwealth grant - for the reduction of the deficit. That attitude causes concern to those who represent Tasmania in this chamber. We have to plead the case of Tasmania in the Senate, and, if it is correct that the Tasmanian Treasurer absolutely declined to accept that money, with the condition that the deficit should be reduced, our presentation of the case for Tasmania will be prejudiced. Tasmania, and nearly all States, to-day are living on money which they received from the Loan Council in exchange for I.O.U.'s. It seems to' me that the policy of the present Government in Tasmania is simplicity itself. It gets from the Commonwealth all the money it can, and spends it, and makes itself a good fellow in the State. It takes no heed of the inevitable day of reckoning or the I.O.U.'s, which, like chickens, will come home to roost. I can see very plainly that that policy, if allowed to continue, will eventually result in Tasmania having to throw itself absolutely on the mercy of the Commonwealth. On their return from the Loan Council meeting, the representatives of the State boasted that the deficit permitted for this year was double the amount for which they had hoped. 
.- I also was perturbed when I noticed that Tasmania was excluded from the benefits conferred by this bill. I thought it my duty to telegraph to the Treasurer of that State to inquire the reason which actuated the 'Tasmanian Government  in  declining to accept the conditions imposed by the Commonwealth Government. Yesterday I received a reply from the Treasurer of Tasmania in these words - 
The Commonwealth £17,000  proferred  to Tasmania was refused because there was a condition attached that, in addition to utilizing that amount in reduction of the deficit, I would have to reduce the deficit by a second amount of £17,000 as a further condition of getting it. I could not conscientiously do this, as it would have involved a resumption of processes of not meeting the proper obligations of the State and the renewed application of a policy for abandoning which I have been publicly thanked in Hobart by the  Commonwealth  Grants Commission. 
Dwyer-Gray,  Treasurer. 
I offer no comment on that telegram; but I should like to hear what the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has to say in regard to those remarks of the Treasurer of Tasmania. We are naturally concerned. We feel that Tasmania is entitled to receive a proportion of the benefit conferred by this bill, and we are in the dark as to why it was refused. The telegram from  Mr. DwyerGray  does not explain the matter satistorily 
[3.25]. -  in reply  - It is interesting to look back on the circumstances in which this grant was proposed. When the Loan Council met the deficit figures for the States were much beyond what could be financed. The Commonwealth Treasurer  (Mr. Casey),  in order to get the cooperation of the States in bringing their deficits down to manageable amounts, offered, on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, to contribute £500,000, to be divided among the States, if they would undertake to reduce their deficits by that amount, plus a similar amount to be provided by themselves. Five States accepted that condition, and they have not only carried it out, but have also made a greater reduction than they were obliged to make. It is quite correct that the Treasurer and Acting Premier of Tasmania,  Mr. Dwyer-Gray,  refused to accept the grant on behalf of Tasmania with that condition attached. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Allocation of grant).' 
 In his budget the Premier and Treasurer of Western Australia,  Mr. Collier,  estimated a deficit of £255,000, after allowing for a Commonwealth grant of only £600,000. The actual amount of the grant is £800,000. The extra £200,000 should reduce the State deficit to £55,000. Now this bill is proposing a further special grant of £35,000, reducing the deficit to £20,000. Allowing for the undertaking given by the Treasurer of Western Australia, which is similar to the undertakings given by the Treasurers of the other States, to reduce the State deficit further by an amount equal to that of the grant, the deficit should disappear entirely. In fact, this year Western Australia should enjoy a surplus. I ask whether the deficit considered by the Commonwealth Government for the purpose of this grant to Western Australia was £255,000, as submitted by the State Treasurer to the Parliament of Western Australia. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [3.31].  -  The deficits considered for the purpose of making this grant were those submitted by the various States to the Loan Council, and not those which were estimated in the budgets subsequently submitted to the respective State Parliaments. At the time the Loan Council met, neither Western Australia, South Australia nor Tasmania, knew the actual  sumwhich would be made available to them by this Government by way of special grants. Therefore, the figure to be considered in "Western Australia's case is the figure that was submitted at the Loan Council. That figure, as the honorable senator has pointed out, may not have agreed with the figure submitted in the Western Australia budget. 
The figure mentioned in the State budget was £600,000; therefore, Western Australia should have a surplus this year of £15,000. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I desire to make a personal explanation with regard to the discussion which took place in this chamber yesterday on the South Australia Grant Bill. In to-day's Sydney newspapers it is reported that I withdrew certain references which I made to  Senator Hardy's  speech. It will be remembered that I remarked that  Senator Hardy  attempted to seduce honorable senators by false reasoning. At your request,  Mr. President,  I certainly withdrew that particular remark. But I am reported in the Sydney press as having also withdrawn other remarks which I made at that time, to the effect that, not only by his words, but also by inference,  Senator Hardy  had suggested that New South Wales was dominating the smaller States, and that in  making such a suggestion, the honorable senator was raising the cry of the smaller States versus the bigger States. Those remarks I did not withdraw, and I do not withdraw them now. I still say that  Senator Hardy  deliberately attempted to do that. It will be recalled that twice during the honorable senator's speech, I said that he was crying " stinking fish " against his own State. In a subsequent speech I stated my impression of  Senator Hardy's  intentions, expressed my regret at his attitude, and on behalf of myself and my fellow senators from New South Wales, dissented from his remarks. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD (Western Australia [3.38]. - I should like to refer to the remarks made by  Senator Hardy  yesterday in relation to a speech by me concerning the proposal to disband the Australian Dairy Council; I thought I made my remarks on that subject in a very temperate and reasonable manner, but  Senator Hardy  summarized my speech as an attack on the Government and claimed that it contained many inaccuracies. I assure honorable senators that I am not in the habit of submitting tothem inaccuracies. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.They were addressed to the Assistant Minister and also to  Senator Hardy.  I feel sure I expressed myself temperately, and that by no flight of the imagination could my remarks be construed as an attack. The attack has not started yet. I do not know why  Senator Hardy  should adopt such an attitude ; perhaps references to him as " the Cromwell of the Riverina " have somewhat turned his head. 
Roundhead or blockhead? 
I think it is a case of hardheads. I hope  Senator Hardy  will not attempt to emulate the famous Oliver who was noted for his impetuosity. Several points have been brought under my attention regarding proposed drastic changes in the Australian Dairy Council and the Dairy Produce Export Control Board, and I have been strengthened in the attitude which I took earlier. I should like to draw the attention of honorable senators to a number of additional items which will affect the situation when the particular measure concerned comes before this chamber.  Senator Hardy's  address yesterday sounded very much like an apology for the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page).  I was not aware that he represented the Minister for Commerce in this chamber. 
I was not aware to what documents  Senator Hardy  referred, until he read a telegram sent by the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia to the Minister for Commerce. In reading that telegram he endeavoured to throw some doubt on my authority for saying that the State advisory committee on the dairying industry had sent their representative to Sydney to protest against the disbandment of the Australian Dairy Council. As I mentioned previously, the State advisory committee on dairying in Western Australia is fully representative of the producers and the -industry generally in that State, and I repeat that that body is far more competent to pass an opinion regarding the industry in Western Australia than is the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia which is recognized as a political body, being, in fact, the organization of the Country party. That association cannot assume more authority than the State advisory committee to speak in the interests of the dairying industry in Western Australia. To indicate the strength, or lack of strength, of that association in the dairying country, as an organization of the Country party, I point out that the south-west portion of the State, which is the main sphere of the dairying industry in Western Australia, consists of six electorates for the Legislative Assembly and one province for the Legislative Council, yet none of these seats are held by members of the Country party. Three of the seats in the Assembly are held by Nationalists and three by members of the Labour party, whilst all three seats in the council are held by Nationalists. After  Senator Hardy  had read a lettergram from the Primary Producers Asso ciation I interjected that that organization did not represent the dairying industry in Western Australia, and that anybody could have sent suck a message. 
Since I mentioned this subject in the Senate on Tuesday evening, I have received a copy of the official report of the annual meeting of the Australian Dairy Council, held in Sydney on the 9th and 10th October, and presided over by  Mr. W.  T. Harris, a representative of Queensland. A perusal of this report does not suggest that the council is in any sense a moribund organization. On the contrary, there is ample evidence that it is a very live body with a creditablerecord of achievement. The chairman's report referred to proposed action in connexion with various phases of the industry, including experimental plots, improvement of pastures, and demonstrational work, in which the keenest interest had been displayed by dairy farmers, financial institutions, educational and other bodies. The report went on to mention a number of proposals, including the necessity for a uniform brand, recommendations relating to an excise duty on butter substitutes, research, into cattle diseases and other important subjects. It also stated - 
During the year a recommendation was made to the Minister for Commerce that a dairy research institute be established in Australia to undertake research into manufacturing and other dairying problems. The council promised to make a substantial contribution spread over a number of years towards the cost of such institute. The Minister promised to&gt; go fully into the matter, but up to date no advice has been received from him as to theGovernment's decision. 
The report further dealt with a number of other matters for the benefit of the industry which the council had under consideration during the year, and in which the liveliest interest had been displayed. This, honorable senators should note, is the body which, under the Government's proposal, is to be - I stick to the term which I used on Tuesday night - wantonly thrust aside. I wish it to be clearly understood that I do not know any members of the council personally, I have ventilated the matter because I object to the treatment which they have received after having rendered such valuable services to an important primary industry. The  chairman-  of the council is not alone in his eulogy of the work of the council. The Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  speaking at the National Dairy Conference held in Sydney in April of this year, said - 
J do not think it has been suggested either by Kew South Wales or by the Government which has distributed a partial statement of the position, that there is any question of the Export Control Board or the Australian Dairy Council being on trial for their lives. Everybody associated with the dairying industry realizes the very great debt that it owes to these organizations. The Australian Dairy Council has done a great amount of exceedingly useful work. The difficulty in connexion with that organization is that its ideas cannot be translated into practice in many cases, merely because of the lack of necessary machinery. What is aimed at is that the good work it does, and the decisions at which it arrives, shall be implemented instead of being allowed to remain more or less a dead letter. I want everybody present to disabuse their minds of the suggestion that there is any censure implied on the Australian Dairy Council. We all acknowledge the good work it has done, and the patriotic efforts that have been put forward by its members. So far as the Export Control Board is concerned, there is no thought of interfering with its powers in the slightest degree. My attitude, and that nf the Commonwealth Government, is that the extension of a similar principle to other industries is the only way in which we can help to satisfactorily solve our marketing problems. The efforts which have been put forward 'by the Dairy Export Board, which is the child of the Bruce-Page Government, show precisely where T stand in this matter. THIC WORK DONE BY THAT BOARD IS BEYOND ALL PRAISE. ITS COMPOSITION IN REGARD TO ITS PERSONNEL AND EXPERIENCE LEAVES NOTHING TO BE DESIRED. 
That is an encomium of which any public or quasi-public body might well be proud. Yet this organization is to be ruthlessly disbanded and much of the value of its services dissipated. 

 Senator Hardy also criticized my statement that the change would lead to a large measure of government control of the industry through the appointment of a permanent committee consisting of the State directors of agriculture to advise the council. I substantiate what I said on that aspect of the proposal by reading the following comment contained in a statement issued by the Co-operative Butter and Cheese Factories Association of Victoria : - 
The National Dairy Conference made recommendations to the Minister for Commerce, who submitted them to the standing committee of government officials, which, after prolonged discussion, rejected them and submitted their own recommendations to the Australian Agricultural Council, which adopted them with some amendments, and then forwarded them to the Minister for Commerce, on whose advice they have been accepted by Cabinet, thus ignoring the recommendations of the producers, as expressed at the National Dairy Conference. 
The subject will be thoroughly ventilated when the proposed legislation comes before the Senate, and I should like honorable senators to bear in mind what I have said. I understand that a deputation is leaving Western Australia this week to endeavour to interview the Prime Minister on the subject. I' am informed also that other States have taken action and strongly resent the proposal. The following telegram, which I received from Adelaide to-day, will give to honorable senators an idea of what the industry in that State thinks of the proposal : - 
We the South Australian Farmers Cooperative Union Limited, representing  15,000  shareholders controlling eleven factories manufacturing butter, cheese, condensed milk, casein, bacon and city milk suppliers with a total capital investment of  £826,000  in dairying business, strongly protest against proposals of Minister for Commerce to reconstitute Dairy Produce Board, which will eliminate representation of co-operative manufacturers in this State as his proposal is to have only one co-operative manufacturers' representative to represent Tasmania, Western Australia and South Australia. We claim that even though these States are small as compared with total Commonwealth production, we are an important industry in our own State ami are justly entitled to one representative each on the new board, and method of election should be on a production basis, as is being done when electing the present Dairy Produce Board. Have no objection additional producers being added to present Dairy Produce Board, but producers should be elected by ballot of all cream and milk suppliers. Before  bin  is placed before House, we respectfully request you receive Commonwealth deputation of those interested so that objection can bc fully discussed. 

 Senator Hardy spoke of my earlier remarks on this subject as a scathing attack on the proposed re-organization of the industry. My appeal to him was merely a reasonable request that as the leader of the Country party senators he would use his influence with his friends in !New South Wales to persuade them to take a broader federal outlook of the industry so as to ensure for the smaller 
States adequate representation on the board. If he would do this, his action would go a long way towards removing misunderstanding, and thus improve the immediate outlook for the industry. 
Question resolvedin the affirmative. 
[3.2]. -  by leave  - I desire to make a statement with regard to the Italo-Abyssinian dispute. I previously informed honorable senators that proposal  No. I.  of the Sanctions Coordination Committee relating to the prohibition of arms and munitions of war to Italy had been put into operation, and the Commonwealth Government had accepted in principle proposal No. II. (Financial Sanctions). 
The Government on the 25th October, also decided to accept in principle proposal  No.  III. (Prohibition of imports from Italy or Italian colonies), and proposal  No.  IV. (Prohibition of certain munitions of war exports to Italy). The nature and extent of these proposals were previously indicated to honorable senators. The Secretary-General of the League of Nations was informed of this decision and notified " that the Commonwealth Government would be prepared to put the proposals completely into operation within a period not less than 14 days subsequent to the 31st October or any date agreed upon by the Co-ordination Committee." This committee will meet on the 31st October to fix the date from which the sanctions will operate. 
The Government has also given consideration to proposal  No.  V. of the Coordination Committee, relating to mutual assistance. This proposal indicates the obligations of State Members of the League under paragraph 3 of article 16 of the Covenant with reference to the operation of the most-favoured-nation clause, so far as obligations under treaties containing such clauses are affected by reason of the suspension of commercial relations with Italy.For example, in the case of the determination or suspension of a trade agreement between Italy and a State Member of the League, other countries entitled to any concession or preferential treatment would automatically lose the right of the particular concession. Section la of the proposal is designed to counteract this, and provide that League Members other than Italy entitled to claim rights, shall still continue to receive them as though Italy were still receiving those rights. This section would not affect Australia, as we have no commercial agreement with any countries under which preferential treatment in regard to any commodity is accorded. 
In addition, proposal No. V. asks State Members to purchase commodities previously obtained from Italy from other State Members, and to endeavour by increase of purchases, to alleviate the position of State Members who have suffered loss through the imposition of economic sanctions. The Commonwealth Government has accepted this proposal in principle and the Secretary-General of the League is being so informedthis afternoon. 
Legislation to give effect to proposals Nos. II., III. and IV. is now being prepared, and the bill will be introduced at an early date. 
SenatorBrown.  -  Has the Leader of the Senate any information as to the number of nations which have agreed to impose these particular sanctions? 
Yes, but I have not the list at the moment. I may say, however, that additions are being made from time to time, to the list already published in the newspapers. 
 by leave  - In answer to a question asked by  Senator McLeay  on Thursday last with regard to the disallowance of regulations, I stated, off-hand and as my then opinion, that the Senate's power of disallowance was over a statutory rule as a whole. I have considered the matter further in the light of section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act, and have come to the conclusion that it may  be permissible for a motion to 'be moved pursuant to section 10 for the disallowance of an individual regulation contained in a statutory rule. I do not desire the statement which I made last week to be regarded as my considered opinion. 
In response to the invitation of the Leader of the Senate to honorable senators during the passage of the Sales Tax (Financial Relief) Bill last week, to suggest any items which they considered required urgent attention, I submitted a request with regard to the ruling of the Commissioner of Taxation in respect of egg pulp in containers. I now ask how soon and in what form honorable senators may expect a response from the Government to our appeals on that matter ? 
In to-day's  Sydney 

 Morning Herald appears a paragraph, headed "Pacific Shipping:  Mr. Lyons's  Helpful Message,"in which it is stated that the Cabinet is taking steps to deal with the Pacific shipping problem. Has the Leader of the Senate any information on that matter to give to honorable senators ? 
I move - 
That the 'bill be now read a second time. 
This is a bill to provide for the payment, through the States, of a subsidy of 15s. a ton on fertilizers used in the production of primary products other than wheat during the year ending on the 30th June, 1936. Payments of the nature contemplated in this measure were first made by the Commonwealth Parliament by the Financial Relief Act 1932. Under that act, an amount of approximately £245,000 was paid through the States. The subsidy proved of such benefit to primary producers, in encouraging the desirable practice of adequately fertilizing the soil, that the Commonwealth provided a further £250,000 in order to pay a subsidy of 15s. a ton on fertilizer applied to the soil in the growing of crops other than wheat during the year ended the 30th June, 1935. That amount also was paid to the State governments for distribution to the primary producers concerned. The accounts for that year are not yet com,*plete, but so far the sum of £215,000  ha3  been distributed, as follows: - Victoria, £58,500; New South Wales, £22,000; Queensland, £24,500; South Australia, £44,500; Western Australia, £52,000 ; and Tasmania, £13,500. A further £35,000 has still to be distributed. The primary industries which use artificial manures have benefited greatly from their use. Although artificial manures are applied chiefly to pastures, considerable quantities are also used in the production of oats, fruit and vegetables. The Government feels fully justified in assisting farmers to use fertilizers to the greatest possible extent where such fertilizers are necessary to obtain the best results from farming operations. It is essential that Australia's primary production should be maintained at the highest state of efficiency. The £275,000 for which provision is made in the bill will be paid to the State governments for distribution to the primary producers concerned at the rate of 15s. a ton on fertilizers used in the production of primary produce other than wheat during the year ending the 30th June, 1936. In previous years it was found that a certain amount of hardship was imposed on farmers by excluding from the bounty fertilizer bought in less than 1-ton lots. It has, therefore, been decided that the bounty will be paid on half-ton lots during the current financial year. 
No provision was made in the Financial Relief Act 1932 for a closing date for applications for relief in respect of the year ended the 30th November, 1933, and it has been found difficult to close the accounts in respect of that year, because isolated applications are still coming in. Clause 11 of the bill fixes the 30th day of November, 1935, as the closing date for applications in respect of the 1932-33 assistance. The allocation of the £275,000 to be provided this year will be approximately as follows: - New South Wales, £22,000 ; Victoria, £100,000 ; Queensland, £37,000; South Australia, £39,000; Western Australia, £57,000; Tasmania, £20,000; total, £275,000. I feel sure that all honorable senators will approve of this measure. 
The Opposition agrees with the principle embodied in this measure, and welcomes the provision to liberalize the conditions of the subsidy by making it applicable to half-ton lots, whereas for- merly the minimum quantity on which bounty was payable was 1 ton. When the measure is being considered in committee it may require closer scrutiny, but we shall not oppose the second reading. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Appropriation of £275,000 for relief to primary producers.) 
, -  I desire to know whether (the words "primary produce other than wheat " cover wheaten hay and whether the growers of wheaten hay will share in this appropriation? 
 As the purpose of the bill is to grant relief to the growers of primary products other than wheat, I should say that wheaten hay is included. It is a matter of interpretation. In my opinion, the clause covers wheat grown for hay. 
.- A man who sows wheat with the object of reaping it may later decide to cut the crop for hay. Who is to determine whether or not he should share in the appropriation? I know of many instances of crops having been cut for hay contrary to the first intention of the grower. 
 It is important that we should know whether a man who sows a crop for grain, but later cuts it for hay, is to share in the' subsidy. 
.:  -  I understand that a ruling on this point was given on a previous occasion, and in order that I may refresh my mind regarding it, I suggest that the clause be postponed. 
 The point raised to-day by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  was discussed when a similar bill was before the Senate on another occasion, and it was then decided that the grower of hay was not entitled to share in the appropriation. As the grower cif oats, who uses artificial manures, will be entitled to relief whether the crop is cut for hay, or reaped for grain, so should a person who grows  a  crop of wheat and cuts it for  hay  be entitled to share in the appropriation. 
Clause postponed. 
Clause 4 - 
The amount which may be paid under the last preceding section to any State shall be such as represents payments made by the State to primary producers in respect of the production of primary produce other than wheat, in that State, at the rate of fifteen shillings for each ton of artificial manure used in that State, in respect of that production, by primary producers during the year ending on the thirtieth day of June, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six: 
 As the words "other than wheat " appear in this clause also, it seems to me that until the point raised in connexion with clause 3 has been disposed of, it would be well to postpone the consideration of the remainder of the bill. 
.  -  I agree with  Senator DuncanHughes  that the consideration of the bill should be postponed until the point raised by the honorable senator has been determined. The words " other than wheat " appear also in clause 6. I am inclined to agree with the Assistant Minister (Sena-tor Brennan) that the grower of wheaten hay should share in the appropriation for the reason that wheaten hay is not wheat, and wheat is the only crop specifically excluded. If other primary products are grown in accordance with the provisions of the bill, they will receive the subsidy also. 
 Under those conditions, I move - 
That after the word " wheat " the words " for grain " bo inserted. 
The Government cannot accept this amendment. This measure is  a  counterpart of bills that have been passed  on  many previous occasions and must be read in conjunction with them. It contains farreaching provisions designed to benefit wheat-growers particularly. If this  amendment were agreed to, it would probably lead to complications which might have serious results. It is impossible, having regard to the mass of legislation dealing with the relief of the wheatgrower, to say what would be the effect of the amendment. I ask the honorable senator to recognize that in these measures the Government has tried to do the fair thing hy all sections of th§ industry, and this measure only continues what has been done on previous occasions. The main respect in which it differs from its predecessors is that it allows for the payment of subsidy on half-ton lots of fertilizer, whereas previously the minimum was one ton. Ohe effect of this departure has been to increase by £25,000 the total amount of money appropriated for this purpose. In these circumstances, the Government cannot accept the amendment and I request the honorable senator not to complicate matters by pressing it. 
Had I been in time, I would have moved an amendment having a somewhat similar purpose though couched in different words. I find myself in agreement with  Senator Badman  on this matter. It is difficult to understand why, if oats and other crops are included in this measure, wheaten hay should he omiitted.  Obviously if the bounty is paid on wheat on the bushel basis, wheat which is cut for hay does not benefit by it. I submit to honorable senators for their consideration, three points. First, why make any distinction between wheaten hay, and such crops as oats? Secondly, if a crop of wheat is reaped for grain, it will get the wheat bounty on a bushel basis. but if it is cut for hay that bounty will not apply. My third point is of the first importance. The whole desire of governments nowadays is surely to reduce wheat production, and if the farmer cuts his crop for hay he must be conferring a benefit on the community generally by not increasing the wheat output. Instead of being discouraged, as he is by this bill, such a farmer should be encouraged to cut for hay. 
[3.88]. - I suggest that it is somewhat undesirable, in view of the fact that this legislation has operated for several years and has been generally accepted by the community, that the Senate should now make a radical alteration. The wheat-grower has been assisted, and is still being aided by special legislation designed to tide him over a difficult period, and other legislation is now being introduced to fix the price of wheat for home consumption. For the moat part wheaten hay is cut incidental to the production of wheat for grain. Honorable senators are well aware that not many crops of wheat are sown with the intention of cutting the whole lot for hay. 
Yes, in a few, but such is not the general rule. Most of the wheat sown is intended for grain. Farmers have adopted a very wise practice of cutting fire-breaks in order to protect the main body of the crop, and the wheat so cut is used for hay. The object of the bill is to encourage the growing of pasture grasses. Valuable work is being undertaken in all the States in the propagation of pastures, and the original idea was to promote pasture production by top-dressing with superphosphate. The Government therefore introduced legislation to assist in the purchase of superphosphate, and in that way encourage the production of good pasture. Representations were then made that oat crops which, in Western Australia and in some of the other States, are used largely as pasture should be considered. Farmers raising fat lambs deliberately sow oar crops, not for hay, but as pasture for their ewes at lambing time. .Sometimes such a crop is fed off two or three times before it is eventually cut for hay. As wheaten hay is largely incidental to  the  production of wheat for grain, and wheat for grain is dealt with by other means, the amendment should, not be pressed. Moreover, the Committee has not the power to increase the appropriation which has been fixed having regard to budgetary necessities. It is obvious that if the amendment be carried, the position can he met only by reducing the rate of subsidy per ton paid on superphosphate used, and I do not think that honorable senators will consider that that is desirable. Those who have received  the subsidy in the past and have put it to such good use have based their calculations on 15s. a ton, and if the destination of the grant is to be altered by providing that the subsidy shall be paid to every one who cuts a fire break round a wheaten crop on which superphosphate has been used, the rate of subsidy will have to be reduced. For these reasons, I appeal to honorable senators not to support the amendment. ' 
Obviously this measure is similar to other bills passed in previous years. Can the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  say whether the States responsible for the distribution of the subsidy have raised any question regarding the interpretation of the words " other than wheat " ? What assurance have we that the States have not interpreted the words more generously than they have been interpreted by  Senator Badman  and  Senator Duncan-Hughes?  It is only logical to assume that the States which have distributed the subsidy have not raised the point. 
The question of interpretation was raised in the House, of Representatives, and a ruling given in accordance with what I stated previously. That ruling has been accepted by the States; at any rate, no suggestion has ever been made that it should have a wider application. Section 5 of the Wheat Growers Relief Act (No. 2) 1934 reads- 
The amount which may be paid by a State to any wheat-grower out of moneys granted to that State under the last preceding section, shall be calculated at the rate of three shillings for each acre which the wheat-grower satisfies the prescribed authority of that Stats was sown by him with wheat for grain during the year one thousand nine hundred and thirtyfour. 
That section expressly meets the case of the f armer who originally intended to sow for grain, but who for some reason cut his crop for hay. If a farmer can satisfy the prescribed authority that the crop was sown originally for grain he is entitled to relief under the act, so that the only ones left are those who have sown wheat for fodder purposes. That class is extremely limited as very little wheat is actually sown for hay. If the crop is sown with the object of securing grain, and the farmer satisfies the authorities that it was so sown although it was ultimately cut for hay, he is entitled to relief under other legislation. If the amendment were agreed to a farmer might benefit both ways. 
A number of dairy-farmers sow wheat not merely for hay but for grazing purposes, particularly during the winter time. If the measure be passed in its present form, such persons will not benefit at all. 
Such persons would not be entitled to the wheat bounty because they had not sown originally for grain, and they would not come under this measure either. Only a small number would be affected. 
In this measure we are repeating the words used in previous legislation on the subject. We have always been guided by the one interpretation, and it would lead to confusion if, at this late stage, we introduced a new basis of distribution. 
.- The reasons given by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  are sufficient to" justify the committee in opposing the amendment moved by  Senator Badman.  If it were adopted, the subsidy would have to be distributed among a larger number of growers and the amount received by each producer would be smaller. In view of the fact that only a limited amount of money is provided in this bill, it would be wise to allow the clause to stand and have the matter raised by  Senator Badman  fully discussed next year in time to enable the Government, if it thinks fit, to provide  a  larger sum, and include those producers for whom  Senator Badman  is appealing this afternoon. The farmers in my State appreciate very much the financial aid which has been given to them in the purchase of artificial manures, and they welcome this proposal to liberalize the scheme by providing for assistance to farmers who buy fertilizer in half-ton lots. I therefore appeal to  Senator Badman  not to press his amendment. 
.- In 1932, shortly after the Government announced its intention to introduce legislation for the assistance of wheat-growers to the amount of £2,250,000, the proposal was discussed at a conference in Canberra of wheatfarmers from all States. I take full credit for having advocated that £250,000 of the amount be set aside as a subsidy for the purchase of artificial manures by farmers who produced crops other than wheat. In 1932-33, the Government made available £2,000,000 to the States, which disbursed it on an acreage basis irrespective of whether the wheat was sown for grain or hay, and set aside £250,000 as a subsidy on the purchase of artificial manures. When the Wheat Growers Relief Bill for the 1934-35 harvest was under discussion in this chamber, I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce  (Senator Brennan)  if he could indicate whether the payments would be made on an acreage basis for wheat and/or hay, pointing out that unless some such safeguard were inserted, the farmer who grew wheat for hay would not participate in the bounty or subsidy. Unfortunately, a decision was not given on the point. In my State, wheat-farmers received 3s. an acre if they could prove that they cut for hay more than the average acreage for the previous three years. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has stated that the purpose of the present bill is to ensure the improvement of pastures, but I think that view of it is not borne out by the disbursement in 1932-33 of £250,000 to assist farmers in the purchase of fertilizers. Many farmers in my State grow wheat for hay to be used as fodder for sheep in seasons of drought. Unless my amendment be accepted, the wheat-farmer who grows for hay will be unprovided for, because he will not get the benefit of a home-consumption price for wheat, and unlike the wool-grower, the lambraiser, and the growers of fruit and vegetables, he will not benefit from the assistance to be given in the purchase of artificial manures. 
No, but the man who grows wheat for hay will get no benefit from this legislation, and I contend that he is as much entitled to this form of assistance as is the man who grows oats for hay. 
When I was discussing this matter with some Country party members of the House of Representatives this afternoon, I was informed that hay and oats would be included in the definition  of  primary produce, and therefore the man growing wheat for hay would be entitled to assistance in the purchase of artificial* manures. 
Perhaps the Assistant Minister will give us an assurance that he will give further consideration to the matter, to see whether or not wheat cut for hay comes under the definition of primary produce. 
I believe that is the intention of the bill. 
.- I should like to know what would be the position of a farmer who sowed a mixed crop of wheat and oats for hay. I have repeatedly done this. 
Those who are raising objections may be likened to the man who looks a gift horse in the mouth, because after all, the money for the subsidy is to be found by the rest of the community. If any considerable number of farmers cut wheat for hay and get the assistance in the form suggested by the amendment, the other primary producers will get less. It seems to me that the amendment would make more difficult the administration of the act, and in the circumstances it should be withdrawn. 
I desire to correct an answer which I gave to  Senator Abbott  with regard to the position of a man who cultivates wheat for grain and turns the area over to grazing. I' am assured by the head of the department that such land would be treated as pasture and the owner would be entitled to the subsidy. To show how relatively unimportant is the issue raised by  Senator Badman  I inform the committee that of the total of £244,288 distributed in 1934 as subsidy on the purchase of fertilizers, the amount distributed to growers of wheaten and oaten hay was only £7,299. 
In New South Wales the amount was £672, in Victoria £745, in South Australia £1,743, in Western Australia £4,015, and in Tasmania £124. If a grower can show that he sowed originally for grain but because of adverse seasonal conditions was forced to cut for hay, he is entitled to the bounty.. 
Before ho would toe entitled to the wheat bounty he would have to satisfy the prescribed authority that he sowed for grain. I really know of no class of primary producers that is excepted from the benefits of this legislation. No complaint whatever has been received from any of the States, or so far as the Government knows, from individual farmers. I ask honorable senators to accept the clause as it stands. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has stated that the number of farmers who grow wheat for hay is negligible. It may interest the right honorable gentleman to know that in certain parts of South Australia - in the district, of Freeling for instance - a considerable number of farmers cultivate their holdings for wheaten hay because they can be sure of a better return from hay than from wheat. The fact remains that there are certain areas where wheaten hay is generally grown. The second point made by the Leader of the Senate was that oats are grown for pasture. I remind honorable senators that wheat also is grown for the same purpose. Does this bill cover such wheat ? 
If that be so, no harm will be done by expressly stating in the bill that this subsidy is payable to growers of wheaten, as well as oaten, hay. By so doing, we shall make it clear to the farmers concerned that they are entitled to such assistance. I point out that wheaten pasture is a stand-by in toad seasons, and that in good seasons also, when the wheat grows too quickly, stock are put in to eat it down. For these reasons, it seems to me that wheaten hay should be treated on the same basis as oats. At least three acts cover generally the granting of relief to wheatfarmers. The first of these, No. 59 of last year, provides a : bounty of 3s. an acre where the wheat-grower satisfies the prescribed authority that the acreage was sown by him with wheat for grain during the year 1934. Those emphatic words, " wheat for grain ", exclude the grower of hay, although I understand from  Senator Badman  that the South Australian authorities have so interpreted this particular provision as to extend the bounty to a certain number of hay-growers. Act No. 60 of last year provides for the payment of a bounty to farmers on a bushel basis; the grower of wheaten hay cannot participate in that assistance Then we have this measure, which has been interpreted as not including wheaten hay. 
I am satisfied with that.  Senator Leckie  suggested that if wheaten hay-farmers were to be allowed to . participate in this scheme, the assistance available to other farmers would be reduced. If the wheaten hay-grower has an equal claim with growers of other primary produce, is it fair to exclude him in order that other farmers working on a similar basis may get more? It is more reasonable that all classes of farmers concerned should be allowed to participate in this assistance. I suggest that the honorable senator should contemplate this aspect of the matter. 
The Government has acted very generously in providing under this measure a subsidy of 15s. a ton on artificial manures, particularly as at the moment the price of superphosphates is the lowest it has ever been. When the original bounty was first granted in 1932-33, the price of superphosphates was £4 10s. a ton ; the 15s. subsidy reduced the price to £3 15s. To-day the price of superphosphates is £3 7s. 6d. a ton, and the subsidy of 15s. will reduce the cost to the purchaser to £2 12s. 6d. Thus the benefits to users of fertilizer is relatively greater this year than in past years. Am I to understand that under this bill growers of crops for fodder will benefit as well as growers of crops for grain? In South Australia several hundreds of growers of barley will receive no bounty on an acreage basis and will not be guaranteed a fixed price for home consumption, but under this bill they will receive a subsidy of 15s. per ton of superphosphate used by them. The Leader of the Government has interjected that this subsidy was paid last year to growers of wheaten hay; I did not know that that was so. 
The Farmers' Assistance Board, which distributed the money allotted to South Australia under the Wheat Growers Belief Act, refused to admit that the assistance it provided applied to growers of hay, and therefore it did not grant any help to such growers out of the bounty on an acreage basis, except where the farmer proved he had cut more hay than his average for the previous three years. My reason for asking a question on this matter last year was that no superphosphate subsidy was provided for the man who had sown previous to the 30th June, 1934. However, such growers participated in this subsidy in 1934-35. If the Minister in charge of the measure can assure me that a grower of hay, whether wheaten or oaten, will be entitled to participate in this subsidy, I shall withdraw my amendment. 
I fail to see how honorable senators can say definitely whether or not this clause, as it stands, is fair to the wheat-grower, because at the moment we do not know the nature of the legislation which, we are told, is to be .brought before us later for the purpose of assisting the wheat industry. If the wheat-grower is not to receive financial assistance under such legislation, his industry will be in  a  worse position than other industries which are to be assisted under the measure now before honorable senators. Hitherto, substantial grants have been provided out of the general revenue, and if a similar course is not followed this year the wheat-grower will be worse off than growers of other primary produce who use artificial fertilizers and are to be given assistance under this measure. 
Amendment -  by leave  - withdrawn. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 7 agreed to. 
Clause 8 - 
Any person who without reasonable excuse (proof whereof shall lie upon him), fails, after receipt of a notice under the last preceding sub-section, to comply with the requirements of the notice, shall be guilty of an offence. 
It seems unreasonable  to  place the onus of proof upon the man who is required to produce documents, books or any other information. I would like to hear what the Minister has to say on that point. 
This provision follows a well established rule in legal proof. Where the means of knowledge upon any particular subject lies within the reach and power of a defendant, the law usually requires him to satisfy the authorities that it is not his fault that he has not done a particular thing. Under this clause the Minister may call upon any person to furnish books, documents and information required by the Minister, and any person failing to do so shall be guilty . of an offence and liable to punishment. It is quite clear that the reason why the person who has the books -does not produce them is entirely within his knowledge. No other person can have that knowledge. The clause does not impose any undue hardship on the person who is called upon to furnish the documents. He might, for instance, be able to explain his inability  to produce them by proving their destruction by fire. 
Unless this provision were made in the legislation, the onus would lie upon him who affirms, not on him who denies. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 9 to 13 agreed to. 
Postponed clause 3 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
[4.35]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill, which I think honorable senators will find interesting, is designed to regulate the whaling industry. The necessity for its introduction arises from the acquisition, by Australia of certain territories in the Antarctic, and also from our international obligations. I shall give to the Senate a short outline of the circumstances which make legislation to regulate whaling not only necessary, but also urgent. 
In 1931 the Commonwealth became a signatory to an International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, which was drawn up under the auspices of the League of Nations. By that Convention, the High Contracting Parties agreed;  inter aiia,  to prohibit the taking or killing of certain classes of whales, calves or suckling whales, immature whales and female whales accompanied by calves. No vessel of any of the High Contracting Parties is to engage in taking or killing whales unless a licence has been granted authorizing the vessel to engage therein. The Convention provides that the fullest possible use is to be made of the carcases of the whales taken. It also regulates the terms of engagement of gunners and crews of whaling vessels. 
Provision is made in the Convention for its subsequent ratification hy the respective signatories; but the Commonwealth will not be in a position to ratify the Convention until appropriate provision has been made by statute for the enforcement of its provisions within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. The power of the Commonwealth to legislate in respect of whaling is limited hy section 51  (x)  of the Constitution, which empowers the Parliament to make laws with . respect " to fisheries in Australian waters beyond territorial limits ". However, in order to implement the Convention fully, it would be necessary to legislate not only for extra-territorial waters, but also for the territorial waters themselves, a matter which is within the jurisdiction of the States. Early in February, 1934, this subject was discussed at a conference between Commonwealth and State Ministers, and it was then suggested that the Constitution might be amended to give the Commonwealth power to legislate as to whaling within State territorial waters, and that the States should yield to the Commonwealth the power to enact laws with respect to fisheries not only extra-territorially, but also within State limits. At the conference of Ministers it seemed that the States were disposed to be sympathetic towards the proposal to amend the Constitution along the lines suggested, partly because of the recognition by the States of the Commonwealth's situation in regard to whaling, and partly because State fisheries, with particular reference to pearl-shell, trochus and beche-de-mer, had been adversely affected by poaching operations within territorial waters by foreign nationals. However, when the matter was referred to the States with a request for an indication of their attitude, it becomes apparent that there was no unanimity among them. Only two States - Tasmania and New South Wales - were willing to cede the necessary powers. The reason for the apparent lack of co-operation hy some of the States was that, although they recognized the necessity for a central authority to control whaling and to check foreign depredations within Australian waters, they did not feel disposed to grant unlimited powers to the Commonwealth in respect of fisheries. Rightly or wrongly, they concluded that a ceding of power to the Commonwealth in this respect might put an end to all control by the States of fisheries generally. 
In view of the disinclination of the States to extend to the Commonwealth the powers necessary to legislate as to whaling in State territorial waters, the mat tei* is being approached from another angle. From the point of view of the Commonwealth it is more vital to regulate the industry in the Antarctic than in territorial waters whore the industry is, in comparison, of small compass. The bill has been prepared accordingly. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that whaling vessels ordinarily put in to neighbouring ports in order to replenish supplies and effect repairs. It follows that the regulation of fisheries can be the better effected if the authorities controlling the ports of call are prepared to assist. Breaches of the act and regulations can more easily be punished by an arrest of the ship while in port than by the issue of process while it is still upon the high seas and beyond the reach of governmental control. Consequently, it is most desirable that the States should pass legislation ancillary to the proposed Commonwealth Act; and each State has, therefore, been approached regarding the passage  of  legislation along the lines of the bill. Their replies have not yet come to hand, but there is little doubt that they will be prepared to assist the Commonwealth in this respect. 
Pending the passage of State legislation, the Commonwealth Government could, on the enactment of the present bill, proceed to ratify the International Whaling Convention, Avith a reservation in regard to the territorial waters of the States. Should all the States adopt legislation similar to that contained in the bill, that reservation could be removed; in the meantime, it would be possible to regulate the whaling industry in the Antarctic, so far as Australia is concerned, during the 1935-36 season, thus placing a check on the wholesale destruction of whales which might otherwise take place. 
With the enactment of the Australian Antarctic Territory Acceptance Act 1933, the desirableness of the Commonwealth's ratification has become more pronounced. From  the proclamation  of the date of commencement of that legislation, the Commonwealth will have under its con trol the vast territories contained in the Australian Antarctic sector defined in the act, together with the waters adjacent thereto. In those waters a large proportion of the world's whaling trade is carried on. 
At the close of the 1933-34 whaling season, it became apparent that the stock of whales in the Antarctic was becoming seriously depleted. The main cause of this depletion has been the increase of catchments due to the establishment and growth of the pelagic system. Under the old method, captured whales had to be taken back to the base for treatment - an operation which limited considerably the scope of whaling - but under the pelagic system, mobile factories are sent out accompanied by chasers, and the whales are treated, as it were, on the  spot.  Honorable senators will readily understand that this method greatly increases the number of whales which can be taken and treated in any given season, and makes the regulation of the industry a matter of great urgency. 
The governments of Great Britain and Norway have taken a serious view of the depletion of the numbers of whales. A suggestion that no whaling operations at all should be carried out during the coming season was made, but the proposal met with such hostility on the part of various whaling companies that it was eventually abandoned. Early this year, however, the two governments decided that, in order to place a check on the destruction' of whales, it was necessary to limit the whaling season south of latitude 40° S. to the period between the 1st December, 1935, and the 1st March, 1936. Effect has been given to that decision in each of those countries, whilst in Norway it has been further decided to limit the production for the coming season to a maximum of 1,100,000 barrels of whale oil, reckoning six barrels to the ton. The Norwegian total catch for the previous season was 1,158,000 barrels, so that the reduction in its catch will be approximately 9,600 tons at least. 
With the passage of the bill, the Commonwealth would be able to ratify the Whaling Convention, thus bringing itself into line with Great Britain and Norway. 
It would also be able to regulate the industry in the Australian Antarctic waters by the issue and control of licences to whaling companies registered in Australia. This, in effect, is the underlying idea behind the proposed ratification of the Whaling Convention. It is recognized that signatory States cannot control vessels flying the flag of another State when they are outside recognized territorial limits, but they can control crews and vessels registered in their own States. Thus each State, by being in a position to police its own vessels and nationals, will contribute to the effectiveness of the convention. Honorable senators may not appreciate how this can be done, in view of the fact that Australia has not adopted the Statute of Westminster. But an arrangement was made with  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom to cover the specific point in question, and the Imperial act relating to this matter, " Whaling Industry (Regulation) Act 1934," provides for Australian legislation to have extraterritorial operation. This is dealt with in section 15 of the Imperial act, which reads as follows: - 
1 ) The provisions of any act for the regulation of the whaling industry passed by the Parliament of a dominion to which this section applies or by the Indian legislature shall, so far as those provisions purport to have extra-territorial operation as respects ships registered in that dominion or in any territory administered by His Majesty's Government in that dominion, or, as the case may bc, in British India, be deemed to have Such operation. 
The dominions to which this section applies are the Commonwealth of Australia and the dominion of New Zealand. 
By this extension of its jurisdiction, Australia would be in a position to fulfil the duties imposed by our acceptance of the Australian Antarctic area in which the greater part of the world's whaling trade is carried on. In addition, the regulation of the whaling industry in this arena would be an act of " effective occupation " in respect thereof. "Effective occupation ", I may state, is regarded by certain authorities on international law as necessary to constitute title to the possession of new territories. 
As to the supervision necessary to ensure the observance of the proposed law, we have the experience of other countries to guide us. It is possible to provide for inspectors to be sent out with various whaling fleets to -ensure that there is no infringement of the provisions of the act. This method has been adopted by New Zealand, and  the revenue obtained by the dominion from licence-fees, royalties, &amp;c, has always been sufficient to cover the cost of the provision of inspectors, even in depression years. 
In the preparation of this bill, advantage has been taken both of the experience of the New Zealand Government in the Ross Sea Dependency and also of the provisions of the Imperial Whaling Industry (Regulation) Act 1934. 
The bill has a very desirable purpose, and I ask honorable senators to facilitate its passage in order to permit of early action being taken to ensure the application of its provisions during the coming season. Doubtless many honorable senators thought that this bill would be largely of an academic character, but the experiences of New Zealand show that, far from being such, it relates to a matter of practical business. The British Government has continued to urge Australia to take this action to protect the industry, and to assert its rights to the territory of which it has taken possession. This industry can be made a valuable asset to the Commonwealth, but it stands in pressing need of regulation. Norway and Great Britain, which in the past have derived considerable revenue from it, have recognized this requirement, and have entered into this convention. 
Not at present, but it is hoped that other countries will become parties to the convention. In the meantime, it is Australia's duty to do its part, especially in view of the obligations it has assumed in taking possession of that territory and the adjacent waters. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
.- Such a long period has elapsed since this bill was last debated in this chamber that honorable senators may have forgotten the extraordinary outburst on the part of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  when he attacked the Government for introducing this measure. I shall refresh their memories in regard to some of his utterances and show how undeserved and irrelevant to the measure they were. It seems extraordinary that whenever such a bill, which may improve conditions in the Commonwealth, is introduced by this Government, the Labour party never wearies of charging the Ministry with being afraid to trust. the people, and anxious to hamper and gag them, by preventing freedom of speech. The Leader of the Opposition deprecated the tendency of freedom of speech to degenerate into licence, but the whole tenor of his remarks appeared to be an advocacy of this licence. In bringing forward this legislation, the Government is actuated by a genuine desire to protect Australia, from the foe who may lurk within its borders. Very often the menace to a country's welfare is greater from within than from without its confines. Numerous demonstrations in this fair Commonwealth in recent years have proved this. "When the debate on this bill commenced, any honorable senator new to this chamber might have gained the impression that this was entirely new legislation. 
The denunciation of the Government by the Leader of the Opposition did not wholly relate to this amending legislation, but referred in parr to the Crimes Act itself. He overlooked the fact that for some years the Scullin Government was in power, and made no attempt to repeal the Crimes Act which  he held up to the reprobation of the people. The Crimes Act itself has been in force for years. If honorable senators will turn to the statutes of 1926 they will see a definition of what constitutes an unlawful association. Yet, only recently, we have heard the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues censuring the Government for presuming to restrain persons who may be members of such an organization, from employing to the full their powers of speech on each and every occasion. The memorandum which accompanies this bill is excellently prepared, and I compliment the Minister and the draftsmen on the compilation of it. It clearly shows the extent of these proposed amendments of the original act. I challenge any honorable senator to show that these amendments will unduly interfere with the liberty of the subject. I differentiate between liberty and licence. 
I have, and I might claim that the Leader of the  Opposition has never read the act closely, or he could never have made some of the statements that were contained in his speech. To bolster up his extraordinary attack on the Government he went into lengthy detail with regard to his early life. This discourse was pathetic and almost reduced me to tears - not tears ot sympathy for him, but tears of regret that a gentleman occupying his position should descend so low as to use such matter in his attack on a government which is doing its best to defend our fair country. In ito wisdom, and with the endorsement of the people, Parliament passed the Crimes Act. I was never aware of any revulsion of feeling against this act on the part of persons whose opinions are worth having. But the Leader of the Opposition generally manages to obtain due publicity for his extraordinary utterances, and, doubtless, because of that I noticed recently that in some parts of Austra]ia particularly in the metropolitan centre of Victoria, persons have been influenced sufficiently to summon a meeting and from a Democratic Defence League, to protest against the invasion by this Government of the liberties of the people. At that gathering indignation was expressed in unmeasured terms that any government should presume to hamstring the people by introducing such cruel legislation as the Crimes Bill. I have no recollection of the Scullin ' Government having attempted to repeal any portion of the Crimes Act which was passed in 1914. It has since been amended from time to time to make it more effective,  particularly in connexion with unlawful associations. Does  Senator Collings,  who contended that such a law as the Crimes Act should not be on the statute-hook, suggest that the Government should not have the right to deal with unlawful associations ? 
That was the  whole  tenor of the honorable senator's remarks. He. commenced by saying the hill was framed in a spirit of fear. Fear of what? Unless legislation of this nature is on the statute-book this or any other Government would not be justified in holding office. This bill has been introduced because the Government believes that at present the law is insufficient to deal with those forces which are anxious to cause disaffection in the community, and, if possible, to disrupt the Empire. 
I shall tell the honorable senator shortly. I give the honorable senator credit for being as sincere as I am, but he made some extraordinary statements. He said - 
Recent happenings in Europe are the best indication of the fact that with a limited monarchy and our present parliamentary institutions the British people have the. best form of government known to the world. 
I say it is our duty to preserve the best form of government known to the world, and that can best be done by legislating against unlawful associations. The honorable senator's subsequent utterances lead one to believe that he considers that the present form of government is detrimental to the people of Australia, and should be dispensed with. After saying that he was endeavouring to lift the discussion to the highest possible plane, he did the reverse by referring to a public execution at Geelong in 1854, to the pathetic experiences of his father and himself in the Old Country many years ago, and to the transportation of a 'boy from England for catching a rabbit on private property. What have such incidents to do with the hill ? He went on to say - 
In all ages people in positions of authority have sought to im'pose their will by force on those not in a position of authority. 
What persons in authority are endeavouring to impose their will by force on those not in a position of authority? The authority to-day is the Parliament elected by the people. 
There was no need to do so. The electors knew that we would support legislation in the best interests of the Commonwealth. 
We did. Many of the honorable senator's utterances in support of his case can be forgiven but I cannot forgive him for his references to the Crucifixion. Did not the honorable senator also say - 
There should be no restriction on freedom of speech, and Ministers will have to eat their words as others who have endeavoured to suppress the liberties of the people have been compelled to do. 
The   PRESIDENT.  - The practice of questioning other honorable senators is undesirable as it leads to interjections. 
My remarks in this chamber are always criticized by honorable senators opposite, and I submit that I am entitled to quote the utterances of the Leader of the Opposition. 
A direct question to an honorable senator presupposes an answer. 
That is the proper procedure. 
It is not the truth.. The principal purpose of the bill is to deal with any person who - publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper containing any matter of such a nature as to, or as to be likely to - 
seduce any person serving in the King's forces from 'his duty and allegiance; or 
incite anyperson serving in the 
King's forces to commit an act of mutiny or any traitorous or mutinous act; or 
to incite any person serving in the King's forces to make or endeavour to make a mutinous assembly. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that we should have no laws because no one should be a judge? Such an attitude is ridiculous. 
Will any one say there is no need for this legislation? My complaint is that it does not go far enough; that it makes no provision to deal with persons who distribute among members of our defence forces publications that are likely to incite them to mutiny, or to cause disaffection. I say this, because I well remember an incident that occurred at a Tasmanian port during the visit of the flagship of the Australian squadron. Shortly before the vessel was due to sail a well-dressed individual walked up the gangway and handed to the bluejacket on duty there a package with a request that he should distribute the contents among members of the crew when the ship was at sea. The naval rating, instead of doing as requested, handed the package to the first officer he met. An examination of its contents resulted in a telephone message being sent to the local police station, and the person concerned was called upon to explain his action. That man, it was stated, had deliberately endeavoured to cause disaffection among persons serving in the King's forces. It is only right that such persons should be dealt with. I have in my possession a copy of the  Workers' Voice  of the 10th August, 1934, containing a number of statements which amply justify the action of the Government in tightening up the Crimes Act. I take from it the following, which are included in the programme of action by a revolutionary government which the Communists hope to see in power :  - 
To guarantee to all toilers full freedom of organization, of assembly and of the press, placing at their disposal' the large halls, the printing presses and all supplies of paper. 
To conclude a fraternal alliance with the Soviet Union and Soviet China, arm all toilers and create a mighty revolutionary red army which in alliance with the international proletariat and particularly ofEngland, New Zealand, America and Japan, will destroy all attempts at intervention and all efforts of the capitalistic class to restore their power. 
I have my own view of the definition of a toiler, and I know many people who, although they have never worked, regard themselves as toilers. 
I have brought these matters under the notice of the Senate in order to snow that these subversive influences are at work in Australia, and that there is necessity for .this class of legislation. 
I am not suggesting that  Senator Collings  has sympathy with the communistic movement, hut his speeches in this chamber, and the utterances of many of his friends outside encourage communistic activities in this country. It is our duty to prevent such organizations from gaining a foothold in Australia. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition that Australia, is the freest country in the world, and I appeal to him to help us to keep it free; I urge the honorable gentleman to forget what he said the other day, to withdraw his opposition to the bill, and support -the Government in its efforts to avert a grave danger that threatens Australia. I differ from the honorable senator on many subjects, but I have the best of feelings for him personally, and I hope that he will accept my invitation to support the bill. 
Objection has been raised in certain quarters to that provision in the measure which gives greater power to the police, and, in certain circumstances, invests a magistrate with the power of a judge. But desperate diseases call for desperate remedies, and after our experience of the last few years there should be no objection to tightening up the law in order that it may more effectively protect the community from- the acts of subversive organizations. I feel sure that the proposed amendments of the act will be acceptable to the majority of honorable senators, and will have the indorsement of the people. 
The hill is a step in the right direction. Many reasons have been advanced in. favour of tightening up the law to deal with persons who are bent on making trouble in the community. In some countries disturbers of the peace a re dealt with in summary fashion. They are stood against a wall and shot. Al though the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and his supporters are hostile to the bill, their arguments suggest that it is necessary. It is about twelve years since similar legislation was passed in England. The fact that we are now following the lead of the Mother Country indicates that we have reached a stage when some check should be administered to the increasing activities of disruptive organizations. I congratulate  Senator Hardy  upon his speech. It gave evidence of much research. I also support  Senator Allan  MacDonald, who takes the view that in some of the provisions of the bill the word " shall " should be substituted for the word " may ", thus making action by the Government mandatory in certain cases. 
The Leader of the Opposition, in a brief biographical review of the experiences of his father and mother, stated that they left Great Britain and. came to Australia because they were convinced that an honest man could not make a living in the Mother Country. Then the honorable gentleman, with characteristic inconsistency, was careful to assure us of his loyalty and allegiance to the land of his birth. I should have thought that if his father had left a country because of his belief that an honest man could not get a. living in it, the honorable senator would not have referred to it in such laudatory terms. 
The Leader of the Opposition also produced a number of periodicals, the transmission of which' through the post, he said, had been prohibited. He added that he had read the articles to which exception had .been taken, and could find nothing objectionable in them. I take it that the honorable gentleman sincerely believed all that he said, and I concede to him the right to his opinion; hut I could not help a feeling of surprise when, after having protested against the banning of these publications, I heard him say that the persons responsible for some of them were anxious to secure membership of his organization, and that he strenuously ob- jected. I put it to the honorable senator that if these people were not acceptable to him as fellow members of his organization, they should not be let loose on the people of this country, and allowed to print, publish, or say what they like. 

 Senator JAMES MCLACHLAN I listened carefully to what the honorable gentleman said, and I have since read his speech, so I am in no doubt as to his inconsistencies.  Senator Brown  also had rauch to say about freedom of speech. I agree with much of what he said, and I feel sure that no one wishes to prevent other people from expressing their honest opinions concerning public matters. 
Any government has the right to prevent a person from uttering anything of an inflammatory nature which will lead a number of people into a lot of trouble, from which they will suffer most. This Government does not object to freedom of speech. I point out to  Senator Brown  that a clear line of demarcation has to be drawn between freedom of speech and licence. This Government is endeavouring to protect the community from licence.  Senator Brown  also spoke of reformers, not only those of the soap-box type, but also young university students who, he claimed, often advanced ideas, the adoption of which might prove of advantage to the community. 
Probably; and nothing in this measure will prevent them from becoming legislators. 
 Senator Brown  admitted that at one stage of his career he was a ranting reformer, but had since reformed. - I am not sure that he has reformed; probably with age he has mellowed, and while he is putting out the same old stuff he is couching it in more attractive terms. No citizen of this country need incur the penalties set out in this measure, but should he do so the penalties he will suffer, under this bill, will not be too severe for his offence. I support the bill. 
I point out to  Senator j  ames McLachlan that what is one man's liberty is another man's licence. That fact has been demonstrated rather frequently of late. "When I rise to speak I like to have plenty of freedom, but when some one else speaks and I do not agree with his utterances I naturally feel inclined to ask him to sit down. So it is throughout life. Supporters of theGovernment have said that these are not the " bad old days ", but most people believe that there is a danger in this country that we may get back to the bad old days. 
I do not feel so certain on that point; eternal vigilance is the price of liberty, and liberty was one of the principles for which the last war was fought. We have been told that this measure effects an amelioration rather than an aggravation of the act it seeks to amend. 
I do not oppose what has been described as the " main object " of the bill, as outlined by the Assistant Minister in his second-reading speech. Any steps to safeguard official secrets or prevent information regardingthe defence of this country from leaking out should be supported. We should endeavour to protect the people of this country by checking the operations of persons who are mean enough to try to sell their fellow countrymen. Even when we may disagree with the Government's defence policy and any measures it may favour with respect to Australia's participation in war, we should be slow to stand in the Government's way once it has decided, as representatives of a democratic people, to take a certain course in such matters. There are always individuals who are ready to sell or buy secret information and their activities should !be checked. My colleagues .and I agree with the Government on that point. 
However, I take exception to certain aspects of this measure regarding which the Minister will encounter strong opposition in committee. Although we number only three, the Opposition will carry out its duty of defending the interests of a large section of the community when such ave threatened by measures of this nature. Whether it be due to the raising of false alarms, the dissemination of wrong information, or tho assertions of communists who, as such, are opposed to the Labour party, the fact remains that considerable numbers of people are alarmed at the introduction of this measure, and many labour and industrial organizations have passed resolutions condemning it. I object to clause 13 which enables a superintendent of police to give extensive powers to Commonwealth officers in respect of search warrants. The person to be entrusted with these powers should be more clearly defined. The bill refers to " a superintendent of police ". Does that mean .a particular officer or any superintendent of police? 
As to the civil actions, even although they may relate to sedition, the Government is going rather far in permitting seizure of forfeitable goods by " any officer who is authorized in that behalf by a Minister of State." This means that any Minister can suddenly create another police force. When we remember that such officers will be empowered to deal with matters that are usually causes of civil action such a provision breaks fresh ground, and it leads me to disbelieve the assertion that this measure is an amelioration of the act. I should not like to have my private affairs inquired into by some man whose only authority is that he is a Commonwealth agent - a man authorized by a temporary Minister of 'State to act in such a matter. Such inquiries should be left in the hands of established police forces. We believe in freedom of speech and we should not delegate powers to any official which might lead to many awkward moments for citizens who may be accosted by such officials when following their lawful occasions. 1 am very chary of giving to special "Commonwealth officers the powers usually exercised by members of a police force. 'Personally I respect a policeman and should he point out that I am infringing some minor traffic regulation I obey him without a murmur, because I recognize that he is carrying out a duty delegated to him by myself as a citizen of this country. However, this Government will be unwise to empower a man not in uniform to accost me and tell me that he is authorized to take me into custody or inquire -into my affairs. 
Apparently clause 5, which deals with indeterminate  sentences,  mainly affects youths. Under this clause an official will have power to take into custody any person who has been convicted of some crime and such a person may bo committed to a reformatory. It has been pointed out that this provision already exists in the Victorian law and that judges have suggested that the Commonwealth should make similar provision in its Crimes Act. Following upon the provision that Commonwealth officers may exercise powers usually reserved to police officers, this clause and other innovations are naturally causing concern to the general .public. Many people have read this measure and criticisms of it, and they are naturally alarmed as to the extent to which this enlargement of investigatory and disciplinary powers will affect their freedom as subjects. 
Clause 6 deals with incitement to mutiny. I would not protect any person who attempted to incite a member of our defence forces to mutiny. The Labour party is a constitutional party and none of its members would make or countenance such attempts. No political party, of course, can be expected to control irresponsible individuals. The bill places a publisher in an untenable position. Under the original act his position was bad enough, but with the deletion of the word "knowingly" he will never know when a charge may be laid against him. No publisher of a newspaper is in a position to know anything that is published above his name so the deletion of " knowingly " will greatly increase restrictions on the freedom of the press. 
In committee the Labour party will oppose the provision for the amendment of section 25 of the principal act, although, in view of the speeches by  Senator Payne  and  Senator James  McLachlan to-day, its opposition will, no doubt, be ineffective. Those honorable senators, and others who support the Government, will, as usual, follow the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  when the division bolls ring. I have had experience of attempts to interfere with the liberty of trade unionists. In my early days I helped to form an industrial union, which, in order to provide against victimization, was forced to make each of its 40 members an officer. The union could have but one  president,  and one secretary, but it overcame the "difficulty occasioned by the lack of official positions by appointing about a dozen vicepresidents and a similar number of assistant secretaries. Every member of the organization held some official position, and was, therefore, regarded as a ringleader, yet those workers were only forming industrial organization, in order to obtain for themselves and their families a reasonable share of the good things of life which they produced. The history of the Labour party is the history of a fight for the right to express one's opinions. Honorable senators know how the rights of individuals have been interfered with in Italy and Russia. Not many days ago  Senator Hardy  quoted from the penal code of Soviet Russia. Rut not only in that country has democracy been challenged, for both in Germany, under nazism, and in Italy, under fascism, the rights of the people have been trampled on. I have never believed that any form of control which is based on the destruction of democracy and a suppression of the rights of the people, can succeed. For that reason I believe that the extreme form of control adopted by Soviet Russia in some respects cannot prevail, and that that country will eventually get back to a form of government which., while not differing greatly from that which we have in Australia, will be infinitely better than the system which was in operation when that great country was under the despotic rule of the Czars. Australia has made greater progress towards social reform, and has achieved a larger measure of democratic government, than have most other countries, not excepting Russia, where the wheel of revolution has made a complete turn. I shall not make a disquisition on the higher principles of liberty of speech. I rejoice that those opposed to the Labour party entertain to-day a view of the right of freedom of speech different from that of the opponents of the party not many years ago. In these days people have a wider and broader outlook upon life than was taken a few decades ago. During his long parliamentary career, the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  must have noticed a great many changes of this kind. That a great deal still remains to be done the introduction of this bill is evidence. A measure which seeks to throw conditions back to what they were in less enlightened days demands our earnest consideration. In his  second-reading  speech the Minister who introduced this bill said - 
Another provision which is of importance is to be found in clause 7, which gives power to require information from any suspected person The act of 1932 gave the AttorneyGeneral power to require answers to questions put to certain persons, but subsequently - I do not know whether it was because this provision was considered , to be too wide - an amendment wasmade in a crimes billbefore the Senate in 1932, which had the effect of considerably modifying the law. That bill, however, was never passed. 
The Labour party opposed the bill which was introduced in 1932, and secured the verbal support of two members on the other side. So strong was the resentment of such unjust proposals that the 'bill was withdrawn. Although not a lawyer, I spent many years in the law courts of this country as a journalist, but until the legislation of 1932, to which I have referred, was introduced, I had not known of an attempt being made to create an offence and make it retrospective for twelve months. 
SenatorHardy.  -  Mr. Lang,  when Premier of New South Wales, brought in a bill dealing with industrial arbitration which provided for retrospective operation. 
The honorable senator should be as thankful to  Mr. Lang  for his seat in this Parliament as Mussolini should be to the misguided and badly-led Communists of Italy who made it possible for him to attain to his present position of power. Similarly, the disciples of Lenin and Trotsky in Russia owe much of their power to the evils associated with the despotic rule of the Czars. 
If  Mr. Lang  accepts the platform of the Eederal Labour party, there is no reason why that party and the New South Wales Labour party should not be associated. A few days ago the Senate disallowed a regulation which had retrospective effect, yet some honorable senators who supported the motion for its disallowance were not averse from accepting the legislation of 1932, which attempted to create an offence and make the penalties retrospective. 
I hope so. Contrary to the views expressed by honorable senators opposite, the Labour party believes in constitutional methods. It is not an extreme party; indeed, it cannot be extreme, for every three  year3  it is subject to the swing of popular opinion. 
Proposed new section 30  a b  states - 
If a police, stipendiary or special magistrate is satisfied by information upon oath laid before him by any person duly authorized  by  the Attorney-General that any person has in hia possession or custody any documents relating to an unlawful association or has knowledge or information . . .  " Or has knowledge or information " - that provision is too wide. The methods of the Star Chamber fall short of this proposal for the Minister is, apparently, desirous of getting right inside a man's mind, and with a probe, as it were, turning out the thoughts that are there. Such inquisition amounts almost to a form of torture. The proposed new section proceeds -   . . relating to such an association the police, stipendiary or special magistrate as the ease may be, may bywriting underhis hand, authorize any constable to serve upon that person or, in the case of a corporation, upon a person holding a specified office in the corporation, a notice in writing requiring the person upon whom the notice is served to- 
answer questions submitted to him in writing; 
furnish information either orally or in writing; and 
produce for inspection or authorize in writing the production for inspection of and the taking of copies of any documents, relating to - 
any money, property or funds belonging to or held by or on behalf of an unlawful association or as to which there is reasonable cause to believe that they belong to or are held by or on behalf of an unlawful association ; 
any payments made directly or indirectly by, to, or on behalf of an unlawful association or as to which there is reasonable cause to believe that they are so made; or 
any transactions to which an unlawful association is or is believed to be a party. 
It seems a drastic proposal that a man suspected of having knowledge or information in this respect shall be liable to incur the severe penalties prescribed in the bill. Sub-section 2 reads - 
Any person who, without just cause (proof whereof shall lie upon him). - 
I fail to see how that provision is compatible with the Australian sense of justice. If a man is charged under this section, the onus will be upon him to prove his innocence. The sub-section continues - 
gives any information required in pursuance of this section which is false in any particular. 
A suspect may be submitted to examination, and he may be required to prove that the information he gives is not false. He may even be in custody at the time. 
Yes, and he will be required to furnish proof that any information which he has supplied to the examining officer is true. To my mind that is an enormity, and I hope that the legal gentlemen on the other side of the chamber, who are familiar with the principles of British justice, and know how far this country has progressed inthe administration of justice, will refuse to allow this provision to be passed. Paragraph  d  is on a par with the attempt in the 1932 bill to make retrospective for twelve months the provisions directed against industrial unions that had been connected with unlawful associations. That proposal was rejected in this chamber, where it originated, the bill was withdrawn, and has not reappeared. On that occasion the 
Labour party's criticism, which gained support from liberal minded members on the other side of the chamber, was based on the fact that the bill was entirely opposed to .British justice. The Labour party probably experiences more trouble- from communists and unlawful political associations than do the other parties. When I was occupying at one period a responsible editorial position, and interpreting the Labour platform, I was libelled by the Independent Workers of the World, bolsheviks, anarchists and people of various shades of political opinion. The Labour party does not desire to see Australia overrun by spies from abroad or to protect anybody guilty of having committed an unlawful act, but it does stand four square for freedom of speech. Only last year the Labour party opposed the . Immigration Bill, in which a similar attempt was made to reverse a fundamental principle of British justice, by placing the onus of proof upon the defendant. If this chamber endorses such a provision, I shall abandon all faith in the progress and enlightenment of Australia. I fear that we are going backward instead of forward. In the administration of the criminal law the tendency is to believe the best of a man. When I was a boy a first offender was put in gaol, but in later times, I believe, all States of the Commonwealth and New Zealand have introduced legislation which permits of leniency being shown to first offenders. Often the individual is thereby given the benefit of the doubt, and is not -classed as a criminal, or forced to become one. The administration of justice is partly governed by the opinion that the social system may be to blame to some extent for offences, particularly those misdemeanours committed by the young, and that harsh justice does not generally act as a deterrent of crime, as was believed in former years. But this bill proposes .a retrograde step by placing upon the accused the onus of proving his innocence. In my opinion, paragraph  d  is an enormity. A person under examination may] make an incorrect statement though he genuinely believes that he is speaking the truth, and, unless he can satisfy the magistrate of the honesty of bis intentions he may be fined £100 or imprisoned for six months. The whole of proposed section 30 a 6 requires minute scrutiny in committee, and I trust that Ministers will give it their earnest consideration. The Labour party is frequently charged with associating with the political criminals of the community - the extremists, preachers of sedition, and those seeking to promote civil war - so that any advice which members of this party can offer on this bill should be received with respect. Very few people in this country harbour seditious ideas. I have been closely associated with militant unionists and with the Labour movement, and, I know that the number of extremists is very small. A glance at the federal election returns will reveal the lack of support accorded to candidates representing the communist party. I warn the Senate that extremism breeds extremism. A negligible number of votes is cast for communists at election- time, and the majority of those who do vote for them, far from being sympathetic with the communists, are Labour "narks", who are. dissatisfied with the policy of the Labour party or with some administrative act, and as a token of their disapproval give their support to the communists. To destroy the basis of British justice is foolish indeed. The Labour party has to bear all the odium for seditious movements but there is little to fear from communists in this country. I believe that Australia should be adequately defended and in every honourable way should co-operate with the other British dominions and with the Motherland. I have no sympathy for any man, Australian or foreigner, who sells official secrets. Such a bill as this, however, restricts freedom of speech and represents an attempt to shut the mouths of people who may be honest although misguided or foolish. Honorable senators have doubtless made utterances that  afterwards  they have regretted. I smile at tlie thought that anybody can be so foolish as to believe that communism is a live force in the community. 
When I was promoted to a responsible position in the Labour movement, communists were then known as international  socialists. I was so sure that they did not have very much support that I was quite prepared to publish their propaganda. I considered that the best way to cure 'them was to give them plenty of free publicity. And that reminds me of the story of the editor who received a letter trenchantly criticizing him. The correspondent, after libelling the editor, ended with a challenge - Publish this if you dare; you have not the courage to do it." The editor not only published the letter, libels and all, but added a footnote - " I hope you are satisfied now that you see your venom in print, and now what do you think of yourself?" I adopted much the same policy and endeavoured to. keep the pages of the paper open, for the best method of curing a person of the extreme views which he holds is to give him plenty of freedom.  The communists in Australia do not amount to a row of beans, and that is shown by the poor support their candidates get in every election. 
Many electors vote for Communist candidates, only because they are dissatisfied with the representatives of the principal political parties. We should scrutinize this measure carefully, because it may contain provisions which may have a very detrimental effect upon lawabiding persons, including Labour supporters, who may be said to hold somewhat extreme political views. We should not attempt to suppress the opinions of progressive persons, and great care should be exercised before we place a dangerous weapon in the hands of any government. I ask leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 
[6.6]. - In moving - 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I desire to inform honorable senators that copies of the report  and  balancesheet of the directors of the  Common  wealth Oil Refineries Limited, as at the 30th June, 1935, havebeen placed on the table of the Library. 
I direct the attention of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to a matter of vital importance to the north-west of Western Australia. Recently a committee was formed to distribute a grant of money made available by the Commonwealth Government and the Western Australian Government for the relief of those engaged in pearl-shell fishing at Broome. Has the committee made a report, either to the Federal Government or to theState Government, and, if so, is the report available to honorable senators? I have received urgent requests from Broome to request the Commonwealth Government to make further financial assistance available, as the grant made is totally inadequate to enable those engaged in pearl-shell fishing to re-equip the fleet before the early neap tides. I should like to know the manner and conditions under which it is proposed to distribute the grant of £7,000 made available by the Western Australian Government and the £5,000 provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
SenatorPAYNE (Tasmania) [6.9].- I direct the attention of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to the following paragraph which appeared in the Melbourne  Argus  of yesterday :  - 
Industrial awards made under law limit the number of juveniles to be employed and are responsible for robbing thousands of youths of all prospect of employment. 
I do not suggest anything of the kind. The boy of to-day, who is the man of the future, has some rights. When he reaches the age of 21 we expect him to accept the responsibilities of manhood, and that being so we should enable him to prepare to assume such responsibility. I ask the Minister to confer with the Prime Minister and the other members of the Cabinet with the view to arranging a conference between the Federal and State authorities in an endeavour to provide a solution of this pressing problem. We cannot allow such a large percentage of our youths to be prevented from following useful occupations because of industrial awards. 
[6.13].  -  I shall communicate with the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  to see whether a report on the subject mentioned by  Senator Allan  MacDonald has been received, and if it has whether a copy can be made available. I shall let the honorable senator know at a later date. 
If the Commonwealth Government approached the State Governments on the employment of youths as suggested by  Senator Payne,  I am afraid that it would be told to mind its own business. 
The only industrial power which the Commonwealth possesses is in respect of conciliation and arbitration; all other industrial powers are held by the States. The Commonwealth has endeavoured to assist by making a grant for afforestation purposes, and, in Western Australia, sufficient youths are not available to provide the quota of 20 per cent, stipulated. 
In that State at least the position does not seem to be so bad as is suggested by  Senator Payne.  Surely we can rely upon the governments and the people of the States to do what is right. We mustassume that State governments are as alert as is the Commonwealth in the public interest. I would hesitate before suggesting that the Prime Minister should approach the State governments on the subject because I am afraid that wo might be snubbed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As a matter of privilege, I direct your attention,  Mr. President,  to statements which appeared in a Western Australian newspaper during last week-end to the effect that the Senate had reassembled after a holiday of ten days. I point out that, within the time mentioned, there were two Saturdays and two Sundays, and that the Senate, having completed the business on the noticepaper, had adjourned over three sitting days. I resent this unfair criticism of Senate proceedings, and ask whether you consider it incumbent upon you to take some official notice of the manner in which this branch of the legislature is treated by certain newspapers. 
I remind the honorable senator that when raising a question of privilege it is customary to conclude with a motion. As regards the newspaper criticism to which he has alluded, all I need say is that the Senate is so firmly based that it can well afford to ignore the trifling and paltry attacks that are made upon it from time to time by irresponsible persons. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate: (1) Is it a fact that the iron ore deposit at Koolan Island, Yampi Sound, has been sold to the British firm of Connolly and Brassarts Limited? (2) Is it a fact that a Japanese mining company (the Nippon Mining Company) has been admitted to the deal, and will now be in a position to supply Japan with iron ore in unlimited quantities? (3) Was the sale made by the Government of Western. Australia or by the Commonwealth Government? (4) Docs the Minister consider the sale a safe policy for Australia in view of possible international complications which art said to be likely in the Pacific? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The subject mentioned by the honorable senator does not come within the province of the Commonwealth Government. The sale or the granting of mineral leases is controlled by State governments. I shall endeavour to obtain from the Government of Western Australia the information desired by the honorable senator. 
With reference to the statement made in the Senate yesterday by the Minister representing the Attorney-General relating to the power of the Parliament to disallow regulations, I ask the honorable gentleman: (1) Where a regulation contained in a statutory rule consists of seventeen sub-regulations and twelve paragraphs, could a motion be made to disallow or amend a sub-regulation or a paragraph? (2) If the reply is in the negative, or if there is doubt about the matter, will the Government take steps to amend the Acts Interpretation Act to clarify or alterthe position in order to give to the Parliament this power? (3) If a regulation repealing a previous regulation is disallowed, does the previous regulation continue in force? 
The Government cannot and does not undertake to offer legal advice to honorable senators in reply to questions. The honorable gentleman has raised an issue about which opinions may differ. I therefore suggest that he mention it on the adjournment, and, if he gives the Senate the benefit of his views, they will have the consideration which they deserve. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate, in the absence of the Postmaster-General, whether it is a fact that at a conference representative of 60 commercial broadcasting stations in Melbourne, it was decided to ask the Government to repeal certain regulations dealing with wireless transmission, which were laid on the table of the Senate recently? Also, in view of the fact that the commercial broadcasting stations consider that the regulations will seriously hamper the development of broadcasting, will he ask the PostmasterGeneral to call for a report on the subject ? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What amounts of primage duty have been received in respect of imports of goods the produce or manufacture of the United Kingdom for each year from the year 1931-32 (inclusive) down to the present time? 
Prior to the year 1933-34 a separate record of . the amount of primage duty collected on imports of goods the produce or manufacture of the United Kingdom was not kept, the total primage duty collections from all countries being grouped . together in one total amount. For the years 1933-34 and 1934-35 the gross primage duty collected on imports from the United Kingdom was as follows: - 1933-34, ?l,642,424; 1934-35, ?1,562,099. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that very poor office, workshop and sanitary accommodation are provided for linesmen at the Causeway depot, Canberra? 
If so, will steps be taken to improve same? 
The present accommodation for the lines staff at Canberra is of a temporary character. 
Plans have been prepared for a new building and it is anticipated that the work will be carried out during this financial year. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
What is the name of the unlawful association which the Minister informed  Senator Collings  on 23rd October was responsible for the issue of the publication  War, What For? 
When was the association to which he roferred on 23rd October declared an unlawful association, andby whom? 
The publication in question is the official organ of the National Movement Against War and Fascism. This Governmenthas consistently refused to make available to Communist agents the concessions provided by the Post and Telegraph Act in respect of bona fide newspapers. The publication now under notice is not bona-fide anti-war propaganda but simply camouflaged communistic propaganda. 
In view of section 30a (1) of the Crimes Act 1914-1932, no such declaration is necessary. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
What steps are being taken to prevent further losses by the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited? 
What portion (if any) of the reported loss over the last two years, viz., ?143,644, is borne by the Commonwealth Government? 
The Oil Agreement Act of 1920 provides that Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited shall sell its oil products at such prices as are fair and reasonable, and that the technical and commercial management . shall be left entirely in the hands of the company. An increase of 1d. a gallon in the price of motor spirit was made on 1st October last and the company now advises that its position has materially improved. 
Theloss is borne by the company, of which the Commonwealth holds half the shares plus one. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister in charge of War Service Homes,  upon notice - 
Have satisfactory arrangements been made with district councils in reference to rates due on war service homes? 
If not, will the Government consider the question of paying council rates due on war service homes (when vacant) for services rendered by councils, such as maintaining roads and footways, providing street lighting, fire brigade . and police services, which are continuous ? 
Yes; some councils in the various States, however, have asked the Commission to assume additional liability. 
The question has been considered on several occasions but it is not possible for the Commission to pay rates for any period during which a reverted home is vacant. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
Has the Government any information concerning the establishment by the United States of America of an air mail and passenger service between the United States of America and New Zealand? 
If so, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate state the approximate date of the commencement of the service and whether Australia is in any way affected? 
Some little time ago the Commonwealth 
Government was informed that the New Zealand Government had received an application from Pan-American Airways to extend their proposed Pacific service to New Zealand, and that the latter government was disposed to grant the necessary permission. 
The Commonwealth Government has no official information of the approximate date of the commencement of this service. Any air service between New Zealand and America, irrespective of whether an aerial link is provided between Australia and New Zealand, must appreciably reduce the time of transit of urgent communications between Australia and continental America as well as intermediate Pacific islands, and so itcannot be said that the proposed service will not affect Australia- 
Through the courtesy of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  I have had an opportunity to peruse the right honorable gentleman's, remarks in moving the second reading of this bill yesterday. There appears to me to be very little in the bill requiring further elucidation. In June, 1933, when the Australian Antarctic Territory Acceptance Bill was before the Senate honorable senators in opposition complained because they had very little information concerning that measure. I repeat what I said on that occasion, that, in assuming control over such territories, Australia is placing itself in a position which may be difficult to maintain, and we maybe brought into conflict with other countries. The Minister, in moving the second reading of the bill, practically confirmed that opinion. He said - 
At the conference of Ministers it seemed that the States were disposed to be sympathetic towards the proposal to amend the Constitution along the lines suggested, partly because of the recognition by the States of the Commonwealth's situation in regard to whaling, and partly because State fisheries, with particular reference to pearlshell, trochus and beche-de-mer, had been adversely affected by poaching and operations within territorial waters by foreign nationals. 
That statement supports the opinion of the Labour party that Australia cannot afford to become a colonizing country, and that there is a constant danger that the acquisition by Australia of new territories may bring it into conflict with other nations. If this bill is enacted the Commonwealth may be able to obtain some revenue from those engaged in the whaling industry,, but that has yet to be proved. The Minister stated that the New Zealand Government has made sufficient revenue from the- issue of licences to cover the cost of inspecting whaling vessels. This is really a machinery bill following upon the measure passed by Parliament in 1933, and the Opposition will not oppose the second reading. 
I support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition (SenatorCollings). We recognize that there is always a need for the governments of various countries to protect industry from the depredations of private enterprise, which' has no regard for the interests of nations so long as huge profits can be made. The Leader of the Senate has informed honorable senators that in many cases whaling companies operating in the antarctic seas have ruthlessly slaughtered whales irrespective of the requirements, of the future. Whilst the Labour party supports this bill, and recognizes the need for government action to uphold the- convention to which the Commonwealth is a signatory with Great Britain and Norway, wehope that the measures to policethe whaling industry in Antarctica will be more effective than those undertaken by the Government to safeguard the fisheries in our northern and north-western waters. In those latitudes, depredations have been committed by the nationals of a certain power in the north. In the absence of adequate supervision, they have ruthlessly poached trochus shell, beche de mer and other marine products, and broken customs and immigration laws, without having been brought to book for so doing. In what way will the whaling industry be policed ; and how does the Government in tend to see that whalers in Antarctica operating under licences issued by this Government fulfil their obligations? If this country through its government is unable to safeguard fisheries off the northern and north-west shores of Australia from depredations by nationals of another country, what hope has it of supervising the whaling industry? Foreigners have denuded the Queensland beds of trochus shell, they have broken the immigration and customs laws, they have had dealings with aboriginal women, and their sampans have, apparently, had unrestricted right of entry into the territorial waters. According to the bill whales of a certain size, a calf, suckling or immature whale, and a female accompanied by a calf or suckling shall not be taken. It is all very well for the Government to insert that provision in the measure, and I hope it willbe able to police it, but honorable senators are entitled to know how this will be- done. 
Then I presume that the Commonwealth Government will do likewise. I hope that this supervision will be carried out properly, because it is necessary to safeguard the industry. The Government has failed adequately to supervise the fisheries in the northern waters, and yet it is preparing to assume additional responsibilities in Antarctica. 
I admit that the State governments have a certain measure of control over the fisheries in territorial waters, but at the same time I feel obliged to point out to the Leader of the Senate that in answer to a question by me, he replied that a patrol ship would shortly be put into commission by the Commonwealth Government. This vessel, I believe, is now being built. 
If the operations of the patrol ship are to be confined to the Northern Territory, I can foresee complications arising. For example, if the immigration laws are broken by a foreigner on any island, atoll, or part of the Barrier Reef which belongs to Australia, will not the patrol ship be called upon to take action? 
The Federal Government can enforce its own laws, such as those relating to customs and migration, and they are constantly being broken. Twenty foreign boats were beached on. Bathurst Island contrary to the laws of the Commonwealth, but practically no action was taken. I mention this merely to show that difficulties may arise in the operation of this measure. From another source complications may arise. Japan is no longer a member of the League of Nations, and is not a signatory to the Whaling Convention. Would it be possible for the Japanese to catch whales in the antarctic waters controlled by Australia and avoid payment of licence-fees? Recently a number of chasers and a factory ship went down into the antarctic seas and according to press reports, they intended to catch as many as 900 whales. Perhaps they will go into the waters adjacent to the land controlled by Australia. I would- like to know from the Government whether poaching of that nature can be stopped, in view of the fact that the Government has- not been able to prevent poaching in the northern waters. 
 in reply  - [3.28].  -  Apparently the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  sees some danger in Australia possessing territories. Admittedly an element of danger does exist, for heavy responsibilities are placed on. the Commonwealth once itaccepts territories. But a far greater danger would present itself if those lands fell into the hand's of a foreign power. Ownership of those territories gives Australia the advantage, apart from any others, of being , able to keep at a greater distance foreign nations who might constitute- a potential source of danger. 
Honorable senators may be interested in the following extract from the minutes of the Second Committee of the Twelfth Assembly of the League, of Nations in 1931 indicating the attitude of the Japanese Government towards the question of adherence to the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, 1931 :- - 
Kawashima  (Japan) said that the Japanese expert at the Berlin meeting of April, 1930, which drew up the initial draft of the .Convention, made a reservation in regard to article 3 (now article 4), excluding the northern part of the Pacific from the prohibition to kill or catch right whales. The Japanese Government still maintained this reservation, although the last meeting of experts at Genera had not seen its way to accept it. 
To the general principles underlying the Convention, the Japanese Government had no objection, and he was not opposed to its being approved by the Assembly and submitted to the governments for signature. At the same time, the Japanese Government was of opinion that there were still sufficient right whales in the Northern Pacific to preclude any apprehension of the disappearance of the species. 
He had not as yet received precise instructions from his Government as to the question, but he believed that it would in all probability sign the Convention, if the reservation to which he had referred were adopted, and if all the other States of the North Pacific littoral signed it. 
Another extract from the minutes reveals the Australian attitude - 

 Mr. Watt (Australia) argued in favour of the restrictions proposed by the draft Convention. He even thought they should be strengthened, particularly in regard to the limitation of the number of whale-chasers; but he thought it wiser not to take any decision on the point pending the receipt of more accurate information from the International Bureau of Whaling Statistics at Oslo, which, under the Convention, was the institution centralizing and distributing information. The information to be supplied by the bureau would enable a definite opinion to be formed on the point. As matters stood, the Australian Government waa satisfied with the present draft and would sign it, if the final text were not substantially different from the draft text at present before the Committee. 
The representative of the British Empire,  Sir Arthur  Salter, said - 
As regards the exception which the Japanese Government wished to be made for the Northern Pacific, the point had been considered carefully in Berlin and Geneva, and the present text had been drawn up after mature reflection. It was open to the Japanese Government to make a reservation at the moment of signing the Convention, and the other countries would then bc in a position to decide whether they were prepared to accept the reservation or not. He hoped, how-' ever, that the Japanese Government would ultimately decide to accept the text as it stood without any reservation. 
So far as the Commonwealth is able to judge, the attitude of Japan is still the same as was expressed by M.  Kawashima  in 1931. Should Australia ratify the Convention, there is no doubt that representations will be made by the signatory powers - Great Britain, Norway, and Australia - to Japan and other countries in an effort to make the application of the Convention as widespread as possible. So far as the South Pacific is concerned, there is every hope that Japan, although not a member of the League of Nations, will become a signatory to the Convention. There is nothing to prevent it. 
As to fishing in the Antarctic by fleets of other nations, the position there is not different from what it is off the coasts of Australia. The territorial waters of any country have a definite limit, which is recognized internationally. No country professes that its laws operate beyond its territorial waters. The only way in which whaling outside territorial waters can be regulated by a country is by exercising some . control over whaling vessels when they enter territorial waters. Because of the limited control possible to individual nations, those nations which undertake whaling operations should become signatories to the Convention. Seeing that the whaling industry is in danger of extinction unless this Convention is accepted and given effect, I believe that Japan, as a civilized nation, will in its own interests sign the Convention and see that it is effectively carried out. It is a measure of self-preservation. Although Norway regards whaling as one of its most profitable industries, it has accepted the Convention, recognizing that, if the industry is to continue, it must be regulated. Although, like Japan, the United States of America is not a member of the League of Nations, it is interested in whaling, and it is hoped that that country, too, will become a signatory to the Convention, so as to make it more effective. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 -  in this act, unless the contrary intention appears - " Right whale " includes " southern right whale, Pacific right whaleand southern pigmy right whale ". 
Ishould like the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to indicate what  is  meant by " right whale ". 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [3.39].  -  I am sure that  Senator Brown  does not expect me to give, offhand, a learned dissertation on the various kinds of whales. At this stage, I can only say that the kinds of whales set out in the clause are well recognized by all authorities on fish. When a decision has  to be made as to whether or not a whale has been illegally caught, the responsibility will rest, not with me, but on some one more closely associated with the whaling industry. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Application of act). 
Sub-clause 2 reads - 
The Governor-General may, by proclamation, declare that this act shall apply in Australian territorial waters or any portion of such waters. 
I take it that this provision is dependent upon the consent of the States; otherwise it would be inconsistent with the Constitution to provide that the GovernorGeneral may, by proclamation, declare that this measure shall apply in Australian territorial waters or any portion of such waters. Our territorial waters are, for the most part, under the jurisdiction of the States. I would like the Minister to explain this matter. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [3.41].- Evidently the honorable senator did not hear my second reading speech in which I explained that we had endeavoured to persuade the States to transfer control of fisheries to the 'Commonwealth. Some were willing, but others were unwilling to do this, and therefore we abandoned that course. As, however, we were anxious to take the necessary action, we decided to pass this legislation and to ask the States to pass similar measures. When that has been done, the Governor-General may issue this proclamation as he will then do so virtually with the consent of the States. 
 Such a proclamation could not be ' issued by the GovernorGeneral without the consent of the States? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE. No; the Governor General could not issue proclamations on behalf of the States without their consent, but if they pass the complementary legislation the States will virtually give such consent and it will be quite competent for the Governor-General to issue this proclamation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Appointment of officers.) 
 There is a flavour about this clause which I do not like. I ask the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  to explain briefly just what " powers and authorities " under the Crimes Act will be vested in a constable for the purposes of this measure. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affiairs) [3.43].  -  As such a constable will have. to deal with whales and whalers I assure honorable senators that there is no sinister intention behind this provision. An " officer " for purposes of this measure means " an officer performing duties under this act", and this clause provides that " every officer shall, for the purposes of the enforcement of the provisions of this act, have the same powers and authorities as a constable has under the Crimes Act 1914-32 ". Among those powers and authorities is the power to arrest without warrant in cases where proceedings by summons would be ineffective. When honorable senators visualize conditions as they exist in the Antarctic, they will readily recognize that a constable could hardly proceed by way of summons; he must proceed without a warrant. An inspector who may go to the Antarctic, either on an Australian or a British ship, will have the powers of a constable within the meaning of the Crimes Act only so far as this measure is concerned. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 13 agreed to. 
Clause 14 (Remuneration of crew not to depend on results.) 
Contrary to the statement in the marginal note, the wording of this clause itself shows that the remuneration of crews may depend on results of a certain kind. 
Evidently what is known as a " lay " can be arranged. 
I have never known a lay to be arranged on the basis of the number of whales taken; it is usually arranged on the basis of the value of oil obtained by a ship or its crew. In olden days it was customary for whaling crews to be engaged at a certain rate of pay and they were entitled also to an agreed percentage of the value of the oil obtained. I take it that this clause will allow of such an arrangement to be made, subject to certain restrictions, but the marginal note does not fully convey the meaning of the clause itself. 

 Senator 
 Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [3.47]. - Of course, a marginal note is only descriptive and has no effect. In connexion with this and a number of other clauses in this measure, I point out that their wording repeats the wording of the articles of the convention, which was drawn up by experts of nations like Great Britain and Norway which have been whaling for centuries. The object of these clauses is to give effect to the purport of the convention which, in the main, was that indiscriminate destruction of certain kinds of whales, such as young whales, should be prevented. Many clauses in this measure repeat the exact words contained in the convention. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 15 to . 20 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
What is the meaning of the words " or any Commonwealth officer who is authorized in that behalf by a Minister of State"? Do they mean a Commonwealth officer, other than a Commonwealth police officer? Is it proposed to make policemen out of Commonwealth public servants? 
The honorable senator having been charged must discharge himself because I have already explained the purpose of this clause. At present police officers are entitled to seize unregistered wireless sets. 
I am aware of that, but section 9 of the act, which this section amends, provides - 
Any constable may, without warrant, seize any articles which are forfeited or which he has reasonable ground to believe are forfeited under any law of the Commonwealth, and take them before a Court of Summary Jurisdiction. 
I explained . that the reason why that section required amending was that it did not empower inspectors under the Post and Telegraph Act to seize unlicensed wireless sets. It is desirable that such officers should have that power, as it is undesirable that the time of police officers should be taken up in policing a measure of this kind which is essentially administrative and, to a large extent, deals with non-criminal matters. 
In section 9. It is -quite true that the seizure of unregistered wireless sets is not specifically mentioned in the act, but an officer may be authorized to make such a seizure by the Postmaster-.General. It is not intended to make Commonwealth public servants policemen ; but it is desired to give officers of the Commonwealth, particularly inspectors under the Post and Telegraph Act, power to seize and bring before a justice any article which is forfeited or which they have reason to 'believe is forfeited. There may be provisions in the bill that are open to criticism, but I assure the Leader of the Opposition that there is nothing sinister in this clause. 
I cannot find any reference to the seizure of- unlicensed wireless sets. 
Other portions of the bill allude to goods found in the possession of individuals charged under this act, and it appears to me that this particular clause also alludes to such goodsand that it has nothing whatever to do with unlicensed wireless sets. Not a line of this measure is going to be passed until I, as Leader, and my colleagues, as mem-, bers of the Opposition, know what it means. Unless the rights of an Opposition are recognized parliamentary procedure becomes a farce. We must be satisfied of the meaning of these provisions before they are passed. 
I reiterate that only goods which are forfeited, or which an officer has reasonable grounds to believe are forfeited, may be seized by a constable or, as is proposed here, by a special officer. 
No; section T of the Wireless Telegraphy Act reads - 
All appliances erected, maintained, or used in contravention of this act or the regulations, for the purpose of transmitting or receiving messages by means of wireless telegraphy, shall bo forfeited to the King for the use of the Commonwealth. 
That is one instance of a forfeited article ; somebody must 'have power to seize such an article. At present a constable has that power and I am still unable to understand why the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  should see anything sinister in this proposal to give similar power to an officer authorized by the responsible Minister to seize unregistered wireless sets. 
If they 'have been forfeited, or are suspected of having been forfeited, they may be seized. Only under such circumstances can they be seized. I do not deny that goods other than unlicensed wireless sets may be seized under this provision. Under the 'Customs Act a person carying illicit liquor may be intercepted and the illicit liquor, as well as the vehicle in which it is being conveyed, forfeited to the Crown. 
They may not bc seized unless they are declared to be forfeited. Wireless receivers used for an illicit purpose would come within this category. I completely fail to understand how the honorable senator can see red ruin staring 113 in the face if we extend to some person authorized by the Minister power which is already vested in a constable. 

 Senator BROWN (Queensland [5.9]. - I understand from the Assistant Minister that a wireless receiver for which the owner has not paid the licence fee may he seized hy any Commonwealth officer so authorized by the Minister. This means that any Commonwealth officer may be made a police constable. 
 No; the Minister may vest him with authority to seize certain articles. 
At all events the proposed amendment empowers the Minister to vest any Commonwealth officer with limited power. I mention this because a few months ago the Deputy-Director of Posts and Telegraphs for Queensland  (Mr. Corbett),  ordered officers of his department to seize a number of wireless receivers that were owned by working people who had not been able to pay the licence fee.  His  action caused some excitement. Many prominent people in Brisbane held that the Deputy-Director had no authority to order the seizure of the instruments in question. Apparently, the Minister takes the view that any police constable, or any person authorized hy the Minister, may enter the workers' homes and seize wireless receivers if the licence has not been renewed. In his second -reading speech, he stated that this provision was inserted to provide for the seizure of certain wireless receivers. Evidently it will be competent for any officer so authorized to enter any person's home and take away his wireless receiver. 
Does the Minister think that that is right? 
The effect of this clause will be to make every public servant a policeman. That seems to be the intention of the Government. 
I am aware of that.  Senator Leckie  this afternoon in a brief' speech criticized the Government for some of its actions, and pointed out that, if this right of seizure were extended to books, there might be intereference with the opportunity of the people to educate themselves regarding political movements abroad. Although we may not believe in communism, fascism, or naziism, it is desirable that we should have the opportunity to acquire knowledge concerning all systems of government; yet under this bill an authorized official may enter a person's home and seize books from his library shelves. 
I suggest that  Senator Brown  having heard the Minister's explanation of the clause, should confine his remarks to the subject-matter of the clause. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
 The clause provides that section 9 of the principal act is to be amended by inserting certain words in sub-section 1 and by omitting sub-section 4. Section 9 of the principal act provides that - 
Any constable may without warrant seize any articles which are forfeited or which he has reasonable ground to believe are forfeited. 
At that stage such articles may not have been forfeited. A Commonwealth public officer authorized by a Minister is then to undertake duties which should be performed by a constable. The section continues -  under any law of the Commonwealth and take them before a court of summary jurisdiction. 
The clause also provides that sub-section 4 of section 9 is to be omitted. That sub-section reads - 
All articles which arc condemned as forfeited shall be dealt with as directed by the Attorney-General and pending his direction may be detained in such custody as the court directs. 
A Commonwealth public officer who, the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  has admitted, may be a telegraph messenger, may enter any home and seize any goods which he believes he has the right to seize. I move - 
That the words " or any Commonwealth officer who is authorized in that behalf by a Minister of State ", be left out. 
 During my second-reading speech, I opposed this amendment. The Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  endeavoured to show me that I was wrong, and that all that was intended was to give certain persons power to seize wireless sets. It now appears that there is nothing in the principal act concerning wireless sets. If this amendment is agreed to, another force with disciplinary powers will be established. Its members will have authority to enter a man's home to seize goods including books, letters or documents which a Minister, who after all is only a transient authority, may consider to be forfeitable. The members of the police force are under the control of the Police Commissioner, and if necessary may be called before a court. The proposal is to establish a new force similar, I suppose, to that brought into existence when at Warwick during the war an egg was hurled at the then Prime Minister. Under this legislation, any Commonwealth officer may be called upon to perform duties which should be undertaken by the police. If there are not sufficient police constables, the number should be increased. A Minister should not have the power to force public servants to undertake such duties. 
It would be exceedingly difficult for any Commonwealth public servant to refuse to carry out instructions. Even some members of the police force have resigned their positions because of the nature of the duties they have been asked to perform. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings). 
 Senator J.  V. MacDonald said that a Minister should not have the power to force public servants to undertake duties which, presumably, they do not wish to perform. 
Apparently, the honorable senator is unaware of the fact that a similar provision is contained in other legislation. Section  203  of the Customs Act passed in  1901  reads - 
Anyofficer ofHis Majesty's forces or any officer of customs or police may seize any forfeited ship or goods upon land or water or any ship or goods which he has reasonable cause to believe are forfeited. 
The police officer seizing the goods must be in possession of a warrant, and when the goods have been seized he must take them before a police-magistrate. 
He may seize them, without a warrant, but he must possess a warrant before he can enter the house. The only goods which can be seized are goods which have been forfeited or which he has reasonable cause to believe have been forfeited. 
-- If the honorable senator applied the same reasoning to various acts of Parliament, those statutes would break down, for a law can only be administered on the supposition that those who are giving effect to it are honest. If one assumes that they are dishonest, one can imagine all sorts of consequences. 
If a person enters premises and seizes another's goods without reasonable cause he becomes a trespasser and is liable to heavy penalties. A constable may swear falsely, but policemen can be enlisted only from the material offering, which is represented by the ordinary common citizens. We can make inspectors or authorized persons only of officers who can be trusted. One may conjure up all sorts of imaginary things about dishonest officers, and, going further, conjure up visions of dishonest Ministers of State, and in the last extremity envisage dishonest electors, but we can only use the material which we have at our disposal. We must assume that the administrator who gives effect to an act of Parliament will do his duty. The powers now proposed to be given to inspectors are no different from those already entrusted to policemen. I have quoted the Wireless Telegraphy Act merely as an illustration. It was in the minds of the framers of this legislation, and this provision was inserted to enable inspectors to seize unlicensed sets.  Senator Brown  has painted a picture of the lengths to which an officer might go; but the official must be authorized by a Minister of State before he can take any action. There is a vast difference between an authorized and an unauthorized officer. If  Senator Brown,  possessing all the qualifications that go to make an excellent policeman - physique, sense of duty, and calmness of demeanour - enters a house without authority, and commits certain acts, he is liable to be punished for it. But, if he is sworn in as a special constable, and is authorized by the Government to enter the premises, thereafter he may do things which he could not do before. And that is the case of an officer authorized by the Minister. 
 Is it the intention of the Government that this clause shall enable the Commonwealth to confiscate wireless receiving sets because the owners have failed to renew their licences? At whom is this clause pointed? I believe there are times when such a provision should be operated; but the Government should be candid, and inform honorable senators as to whom this clause is directed against. 
 It would not be correct to say that this section is aimed at any particular person, or class of persons. But I repeat that what was particularly in mind was the forfeiture of unlicensed wireless sets. Before a set can be confiscated there must be some knowledge on the part of those responsible for the administration of the act that no licence-fee has been paid, and therefore that an officer is entitled to seize it. Accordingly the officer is authorized to take possession of the set, but before he does so he must have the necessary warrant to enter the house. It was the necessity for extending to officers of the Postmaster-General's Department powers which were already exercised by the police which mainly suggested this amendment, but I do not undertake to say any more than that it must be judged by its terms. It might not be limited, and probably will not be limited, to cases dealing with wireless telegraphy. All I said was that unlicensed sets presented a difficulty that suggested the clause, but the provision may be used for all or any of the purposes which the act covers. In no other way does it extend the scope of the powers now possessed by the department. Nor does it increase the harshness of the regulations with regard to the forfeiture of wireless sets. It only enables an officer of the Commonwealth Public Service authorized by the Minister in charge to do what a constable may already do. 
The Minister has stated that there is practically no difference between the amending section and the original act. 
The policemen who previously could take action were under State jurisdiction. This section, therefore, changes the jurisdiction from State to Federal. A person who owns a wireless set is liable to have it confiscated by an officer of the Postmaster-General's Department for failure to pay the licence-fee. Now, the forfeiture of a set worth 20, 30, 40 or 50 guineas for the non-payment of a licence-fee of 21s. is too drastic. The clause gives very large powers to the Postmaster-General's Department. 
An officer may at present take action indirectly, but not directly. I believe with the Minister that the department will not depute foolish servants to carry out administration. But at times departments and their officers do not use judgment, and they have a tendency merely to think of one thing, namely, the obtaining of the licence fee. 
Before the committee disposes of the amendment, I request the Minister to acquit me of any desire to be personal in any remarks that I may make during this discussion. I have the greatest possible respect for  Senator Brennan,  and for other honorable senators. But I think that the Assistant Minister was guilty of an unworthy act in introducing into the discussion on clause  3,  the subject of wireless licences, because he knows, as well as I do, that while this clause may ostensibly be designed to reach people who do not pay the licence-fee, it is deliberately aimed at other things more important to this bill than unlicensed wireless sets. 
If the Minister puts it that way, I withdraw the statement. If clauses  3  and 4 are passed in their present form every vestige of fair play and British justice, let alone Australian justice, which should he superior, disappears. I believe that this bill offends against the interests of the people of Australia and I shall do my best to alter it. Section 9 of the Principal Act, which clause  3  seeks to amend, reads - 
Any constable may, without warrant, seize any articles which are forfeited or which he has reasonable ground to believe are forfeited under any law of the Commonwealth, and take them before a court of summary jurisdiction. 
He need not be sure. Only in times of great public excitement will this law be put into operation; and then, no matter how weak the evidence, he will be sure. I object strongly to creating another police force by empowering the Minister to authorize public servants to do work which is properly the duty of the police. When a man joins the police force, he knows that he will be called upon to do this class of work, but the ordinary public servant does not expect to be required to do it. 
In my opinion, it is wrong to empower any person to seize a wireless set merely because the owner has not paid his licence-fee. A thing which is wrong in principle is not made right . by extending it, and therefore I object to a wrong power now conferred on a police officer being given to a public servant. 
In order to show how unfairly this provision may operate, I instance my own case. Since I left my home for Canberra, my family received a letter from  the  Postmaster-General's Depart  ment  stating that I had not paid my wireless licence-fee. I had paid it ; yet, because of a mistake made by the department, my wireless set could have been seized under this legislation. I should like to know whether the  Deputy  Director of Posts and Telegraphs must obtain a separate warrant to search each house which he thinks contains an unlicensed wireless set, or whether he can act under a general warrant covering a number of houses. The power to enter a house and seize wireless apparatus merely because thelicence-fee has not been paid is too drastic. It may be that because of the non-payment of a fee of 21s. awireless set worth £24 will be seized. The words "reasonable ground to believe" would have applied in my case. Had I not been a  member  of the Senate it is more  than  likely that my wireless set would  have  been seized and  kept  indefinitely notwithstanding that I had  paid  my fee. 
I was dealing  with  a wireless set, the property of the householder. It is not right that a man who is  out  of work, and therefore unable to pay  the  licence-fee, should  have  his wireless  set  confiscated. I shall  vote  for  the  amendment. 
Progress reported. 
Yesterday I emphasized the enormity of the offence which has been committed by this Government in introducing legislation that abrogates all traditions of British justice by requiring a person accused to prove his innocence. This morning I received a copy of a Melbourne publication containing an opinion given by a well-known Melbourne barrister on this bill. He criticizes it in language much more severe than I have been accustomed to use in this chamber, in the press, or on the public platform. 
I prefer , to consider the views which he has expressed as his honest conviction,, and I know that they are endorsed by a considerable number of people in this country. After studying the provisions of this bill, he states - 
In the realm of political offences the right of trial by jury goes by the board. An accusation has become prima facie evidence of guilt. 
We all know that when, in the lower courts, a prima facie case is made against an accused person, the case goes before a higher tribunal presided over by a judge of the Supreme Court. That, I contend, is what may, and probably will, happen to persons who may be proceeded against under the Crimes Act as amended by this bill. 
We on this side have always endeavoured to defend the bottom dog; we have always stood up for the rights of the people against unjust pressure of executive authority. And that is our attitude to this bill. No Minister should have authority to appoint a special magistrate and invest him with extraordinary powers to deal with suspected persons. 
That is on the legal side. The Senate is expected to accept without question all  the provisions of this bill, many of which are repugnant to our sense of fair play. For instance, section 9, as amended by clause 3, will enact - 
I ) Any constable, or any Commonwealth officer who is authorized in that behalf by a Minister of State, may, without warrant, seize any articles which aire forfeited, or which he has reasonable ground to believe are forfeited under any law of the Commonwealth, and take them before a court of summary jurisdiction. 
That, I suggest, is extraordinary power to place in the hands of any Minister. During a civil disturbance such authority might be seriously abused, and the responsible Minister would justify what had been done by pointing to the provisions in the act. 
Action, I think, might very well be taken by the police under their ordinary powers. 
I again remind the honorable senator that, through the centuries, the masses of the people in all countries have always been restive because of the repressive and  tyranous  actions of persons in authority. Always there have been students and thinkers, philosophers and scientists, prepared to accept whatever fate might have in store for them simply because they were in advance of contemporary thought. Giordano Bruno went to the stake because he would not recant, and Galileo was also a sufferer, though he recanted because his scientific researches - one of which indicated that the world was flat - so profoundly disturbed the current beliefs of the scholastic and ecclesiastical authorities of his time. 
But I am digressing. The Melbourne barrister to whom I have alluded has expressed the view that the privileges secured for the people under Magna Charta have been abrogated by the Crimes Act. 
I am well aware of that. Truth sometimes is discovered in  Truth  as well as in other places.  Senator Allan  MacDonald has not been long a member of this chamber, otherwise he would know that in 1932 a serious attempt was made by the Government to interfere with the liberties of the people by amendments, having retrospective effect, proposed to be made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Those amendments sought to penalize unions which had been connected with some unlawful association twelve months previously. They endeavoured to create an offence and make it retrospective for twelve months. The proposals aroused such a storm of indignation throughout Australia that the Government was glad to drop the bill. It was bitterly opposed in the Senate, where it originated. That is the kind of treatment which the masses of the people may expect from this Government. 
I am not so sure of that, but it is quite likely that an attempt would be made so to  adminster  the act if the occasion arose.  Senator Dein  appears to be imbued with the idea that such things as I halve suggested could not happen in Australia. If the honorable gentleman would refresh his memory of events of the last five years, he would have to admit that all our preconceived ideas of British justice were forgotten by a government which endeavoured to deport Walsh and Johnson. But such are the vicissitudes of party politics that Walsh, once the declared enemy of Nationalist thought, is now in the counsels of that party. 
If the government of the day had had its way, he would have been thrown out of the country before he had a. chance to sue the light. 
Yes. It will be interesting to see what actually happens if this measure becomes law. [  do not think that any honorable senator opposite really believes that the onus of proving innocence should be placed upon a defendant. As a Melbourne barrister said, trial by jury is being destroyed by the Crimes Act. I am satisfied that honorable senators opposite, ' who are the lineal descendants of those who burned Bruno at the stake and who supported King John, arc prepared to do what was done in those days. 
Does the bill contain any reference to trial by jury? 
Then the honorable senator is not entitled to refer to it. 
The honorable senator has already referred to that subject several times. 
Any person who without just cause (proof whereof shall lie upon him) - 
refuses or fails to answer truly and fully any' questions put to him in pursuance of this section; 
refuses or fails to furnish information required in pursuance of this section; or 
refuses or fails to allow the inspection, or taking of copies of documents as required in pursuance of this section; or 
gives any information required in pursuance of this section which is false in any particular, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: One hundred pounds or imprisonment for six months. 
That provision is unduly severe, particularly paragraph  d.  The opinions expressed throughout Australia against the proposed amendments cannot all be wrong. Some honorable senators opposite are so complacent that they have not even bothered to ascertain what the measure actually contains. They will not even give a patient hearing to those who are endeavouring to explain its provisions. I trust that honorable senators will have an opportunity in committee to direct attention to the unsatisfactory nature of some of these provisions. 
.- I have studied the proposed amendments contained in this bill in conjunction with the Crimes Act 1914-32. Somewhat similar amendments are embodied in the British Official Secrets Act 1911, and were passed by an overwhelming majority in the House of Commons on the 2nd December, 1920. If I thought that this bill had 'been introduced to stifle honest criticism by any individual or by the publisher of any newspaper or pamphlet I should oppose it. In almost every clause the words "prejudicial to the safety and interests of the Commonwealth or any other part of the King's dominion " are used, and no citizens or associations of citizens need have the slightest fear unless their actions, words or designs are directed against the well-being of the Commonwealth. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  knows only too well of the white-anting methods adopted by a certain organization to destroy the Labour party in Australia. Yet when the Government introduces legislation to chock the underground working of such organizations which are aiming at the destruction of the Commonwealth constitution, honorable senators opposite protest. Proposed new section 30ab does not necessarily refer to communistic associations. It is a dragnet provision covering unlawful associations generally, and may include the NewGuard or organizations controlled by Fascists or Blue Shirts. I am generally in accord with the bill because many persons with foreign or anti-British sympathies have been given too much f reedom. When the bill is in committee honorable senators must be sure that nothing contrary to traditional British fair play finds its way on to the statutebook. The proposed legislation may be necessary, but it is always well to investigate and remove the causes of unrest. Some are international, over which we  have no control, but over others we have control and the power to provide remedies. When there was any indication of discontent or disorder in the Australian Imperial Forces the generals sought the cause and, invariably, found it, and its elimination resulted in contentment, loyalty and efficiency. But even then there were agitators who never reached the front line, and who were only a menace to the Australian Imperial Force. Their solo aim was to sow the seeds of discontent. The only deterrent was heavy punishment, which was inflicted only after trial by court martial, which every man who has been in the service admits is the fairest court in the world. If offenders were found guilty a heavy penalty was inflicted, and it always acted as a deterrent. It is equally necessary that heavy penalties should be provided for the offences set out in the Crimes Act, which are a check on those who wish to bring about a state of revolution in this country. I support the bill. 
.- 3 feel that I am justified in saying that the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  did not explain the provisions of the bill sufficiently to justify its introduction. He should have told the Senate the effect of the proposed amendments. 
I do not think so. I am inclined to believe that the Government, with its big majority in this chamber, considered it unnecessary to give honorable senators as full an explanation of the bill as otherwise would have been given. In presenting a measure containing such drastic provisions the Government should not think that the Senate is behind it willy nilly, and that we will support whatever measures are brought forward. It may be that I am not quite fair to the Assistant Minister, because he may intend to explain more fully the effect of each proposed amendment in committee. This is the more necessary in that the Senate does not possess what I may term a legal mind. The principal act has been amended on numerous occasions 'between 1914 to 1932, and I am beginning to wonder why it hasbeen necessaryto alter it so frequently. Apparently the bill is to give to the Go vernment increased power to deal with traitors in our midst, to prevent disruption and generally to ensure the safety of Australia. Clause 8 of the bill reads - 
After section thirtyR of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - 30s. - (1.) An offence against thisPart of this Act shall not be prosecuted summarily without the consent in writing of the Attorney-General, . or of a person thereto authorized in writing by the Attorney-General, and an offence against this Part shall not be prosecuted upon indictment except in the name of the Attorney-General or of such other person as the Governor-General appoints in that behalf: 
Provided that a person charged with any offence against this Part of this Act may be arrested, or a warrant for his arrest issued and executed, and he may be remanded in custody or on bail, notwithstanding that the consent of the Attorney-General or a person acting under his direction has not been obtained, but no further proceedings shall be taken until that consent has been obtained. 
That is the point I am coming to. 
It reads- (2.) Nothing in this section shall prevent the discharging of the accused if proceedings are not continued within a reasonable time. 
By whom is he to be discharged and to whom can he appeal? A person may be arrested and placed in gaol. He may, however,' be discharged if proceedings are not continued within " a reasonable time ". But who is to decide what is a reasonable time? That and other points should -be explained by the Assistant Minister. Honorable senators opposite proclaimed in strong language their opposition to any interference with the right of free speech, but I have a very vivid recollection of the rights of free speech being seriously interfered with during the last general election campaign- in the electorates represented 'by members of the Labour party. It seems to me that the only portions of Australia in which there is not the right of free speech are those electorates. Honorable senators opposite and their colleagues should put their own house in order before protesting against the action of others. The Leader of the Opposition raised the subject of censorship. 
I am not satisfied with the method of censorship as applied to either political works or to fiction entering the country. There seems to be too much restriction and too much differentiation. The people of Australia desire to be educated in regard to the political movements taking place on the other side of the world. Unless they are given that opportunity they are unable to obtain a proper idea of how the world is. developing. In the case of fiction, the differentiation made between one author and another verges on the ridiculous. 
Whatever party may be in power, I am afraid that it may administer this bill in a way that may not be quite fair. I do not question the necessity for this measure; I simply say that the manner of presentation is not all that I would have expected in a deliberative body like the Senate. At the same time, I grant that the Assistant Minister possibly intends to explain very closely the purport of the various clauses in committee. I fear the effect that some of the clauses may have, and I trust that the Assistant Minister will explain them in detail when replying to the second reading debate. 
 in reply -  Frankly, I resent the allegation by  Senator Leckie  that because the Government has a large majority in the Senate, I failed to give a proper explanation of this bill- There is nothing recondite about the measure^, and nothing difficult to comprehend in it; it was introduced into this chamber over a month ago, with a. full explanation, so it seemed to me, of its provisions, together with a statement that many or most of them were based on. the Official Secrets Act of Great Britain. 
That indicates that in the introduction of this bill there was nothing hurried- or precipitate. When moving the second reading, I explained that I did not propose to give a very full explanation of the details of the bill, because it was essentially a measure to be considered in committee. And that is the attitude which I take up to-day, one month, after the measure was introduced. If, as a result of consideration, or of reading the bill through, hon orable senators have discovered any points which require elucidation, I shall be very happy to explain, them, and if necessary, to state why the Government has thought fit to insert them in the measure. 
I cannot say that my condition is either one of unhappiness or of pleasure. It has not depressed me, it has not elated me. I brought the bill before- honorable senators for their consideration as one of the things that a Minister in the conscientious discharge of his duty must do, but I have not. myself been able to discover, nor has any honorable senator pointed out, anything in it that should sadden my feelings while I consider it. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has said that he is not sympathetic with the Communist party. I am glad that he gave us that assurance because if one had regard only to his speech and the contentions that he put forward, one might form a wrong opinion on that point.  Senator Brown  has said that every Government has a right to safeguard itself and its people. That is what the Government thinks, and this is a measure of precaution taken to safeguard this country and its people. 
It could be said, before we proceeded to introduce any bill, that the people can safeguard themselves. What the Government is seeking to do, is to safeguard the people of this country. 
I am not so sure of that. Honorable senators opposite have evidently forgotten that we are living in a developing world, that conditions are not static, and that we have to face enemies in our midst, which  Senator Collings'  father, to whom the honorable senator referred in his speech, had not to confront when he came to this country. We are to-day faced with an organization whose ramifications are world-wide; it is seeking to under-  mine the whole of organized society, and Australia has not escaped its attentions. 
The Fascists have been called into existence by the previous existence of this very organization to which. I have referred. 
Exactly. Fascism is a counter-stroke to communism. Communism may yet drive other nations into fascism.  Senator Collings  declared that this measure is aimed at the Labour people, and he wasted much sympathy upon the so-called underdog. As  Senator Sampson  stated, this measure is directed against the dirty dog. 
The reference to dogs did not come first from this side of the chamber. While we move forward to-day, Ave may have to move further forward in future, if the menace with which we are faced continues to grow, because we are not in the van of progress in respect of repressive legislation.  Senator Hardy's  painstaking speech showed that we have still a long way to go before we overtake other nations in the matter of repressing those who are opposed to our political opinions. 
Very likely, because this Government prefers to step forward rather than to step backward. The Leader of the Opposition spent a great deal of his valuable time in academic references to the suppression of the liberty of the press. It is rather unfortunate that .just a little earlier on the same day he had expressed the view that die best use the press could be put to was for stuffing the windows of those so-called hovels- at Molonglo, about which he had expatiated. I remind the honorable gentleman that there is no clause of this bill which deals with, or seeks to curtail, the liberty of the press. Attempts may be made to curtail the licence- of the press, but unless the honorable senator realizes the distinction to be drawn between liberty and licence, his 50 years of political education, of which he has spoken more than once, have been wasted in some important respects.  Senator Brown  had a great deal to say about the Liberty of the subject. This bill, from its title to its schedule, contains not a solitary line which curtails liberty of speech. 
I conceded that, for the honorable senator's benefit, while he was talking. One may refer to curtailment of speech, meaning the curtailment of any means of expression. He gave it that wide interpretation, but what does this bill curtail in the matter of printing? I refer the honorable senator to the proposed amendment to section 25 -  ( La.  ) Any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper containing any matter of such a nature iis to, or us to be likely to - 
seduce any person serving in the King's Forces from his duty and allegiance: or 
incite any person serving in the King's Forces to commit an act of mutiny, or any traitorous or mutinous act; or 
incite any person serving in the King's Forces to make or endeavour to make a mutinous assembly, shall be guilty of an indictable offence. 
Does the honora'ble senator who talks about the curtailment of liberty of expression advocate that the people of Australia ought to stand by and allow such things as these to be done, and make no effort to protect ourselves? 
In other words, the honorable senator strikes at one of the fundamental principles of our legal system ; that of trial -by one's peers, trial by jury. The person who commits an offence under proposed sub-section 1a. shall be guilty of an indictable offence. The use of the word " indictable " means that before he can be found guilty, he must be tried by a jury of his fellow citizens, a common jury as it is called, because the jurors are ordinary men, drawn from the community as a whole. 
No ; the words have to be published first, and it is then for a jury to decide whether they are likely to seduce a person serving in the King's forces. 
The safeguard is the trial by jury. When the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has had the experience of juries that I have had he will know that they will not convict a man unless the evidence "leaves no room for reasonable doubt ". 
As to the criticism of the bill by  Senator Leckie  I can only say that the honorable senator should know that the bill is designed to prevent the spread of communism. Are we to understand that  Senator Leckie,  a citizen of the second largest city in Australia, knows nothing of the activities of communists and sees no reason to restrict them? 

 Senator J. V.  MacDonald objected to clause  2  which gives a definition of " Superintendent of police ". In my second-reading speech  I  drew attention to the link between clause  2  and clause 13. The latter clause amends section  82  of the Principal Act by inserting at the end thereof the following sub-section - 
Where it appears to a superintendent of police that the case is one of great emergency, and that in the interest of the Commonwealth immediate action is necessary, he may, by written order linder his hand, give to any constable the same authority as may be given by the warrant of a justice of the peace under this section. 
Clause  2  defines " Superintendent of police " as any member of the police force of the Commonwealth or of a State or of a territory, being part of the Commonwealth, occupying that position or a similar or higher position. 
-No ;  it  confers on him only such powers as are designed to safeguard the interests of the Commonwealth. 
Some one must make the decision. Decisions are made almost every day in our courts by judges who, however, do not act arbitrarily, but in accordance with the evidence. The clause does not confer on the superintendent of police any greater authority than may now be exercised by a justice of the peace. 
The superintendent of police cannot be in two places at once. In times of great excitement there must be power for some one to act in his absence. 
And so far the honorable senator has escaped. 
It is true that section  S2  of the principal act requires a justice of the peace to be satisfied by information on oath that there are reasonable grounds for the issue of a search warrant. 
No; it gives certain powers to an officer of police not below the rank of superintendent. The provision has been taken from the English act of  1921,  of which we have heard no serious complaints. 

 - Senator J. V.  MacDonald also complained that clause 3 sought to extend to certain Commonwealth officers powers now reposed in a  police constable. The honorable senator's criticism was based entirely on a wrong assumption. The clause is harmless. The section which it amends reads - 
(1.) Any constable may, without warrant, seize any articles which are forfeited or  which  he has reasonable ground to believe are forfeited under any law of the Commonwealth, and take them before a court of summary jurisdiction. 
Clause 3 merely amends that section by inserting after the word " constable " the words " or any Commonwealth officer who is authorized in that behalf by a Minister of State ". It will apply principally to unauthorized wireless apparatus. At present a constable has power to seize unlicensed wireless apparatus, but difficulties have arisen both in connexion with the disposal of the apparatus and because of the danger of more important duties not being performed. The purpose of the clause is to empower- inspectors of the PostmasterGeneral's Department to seize such apparatus. 
The  honorable  senator also objected to clause 5, which deals with indeterminate sentences. This clause is directed, not so much against Communists and persons who divulge official secrets, as to the reformation of youths who have been convicted of offences. It has been inserted in the bill on the recommendation of judges, and is almost entirely identical with the provision in the Victorian act. 
No. Before a man can be declared an habitual criminal he must have had at least two previous convictions for indictable offences. Clause 5 seeks to amend section 17 of the principal act by authorizing the imposition of an indeterminate sentence on a person apparently of the age of seventeen years or upwards who has been convicted of an indictable offence against any law of the Commonwealth should the court, having regard to his antecedents, character, associates, age, health, or mental condition, think fit. In the interests of the youth, the court may prevent him from mixing with undesirable associates. 
The Government has a clear conscience in this matter. The principal States have this provision, and I know that they regard it as a very beneficial section because it enables a judge to send a man for reformative treatment and enables the authorities administering that treatment to retain' him until he reforms. 
It is reformative rather than punitive. 
The leader of the Opposition said that this measure gives a policeman power to decide certain things; except in the case of a superintendent of police that is entirely erroneous. 
The honorable senator probably had in mind clause 7, which replaces a section in the existing act, and, much as it may surprise members of the Opposition, does so in an ameliorative way. Whereas the act provided that the Attorney-General may be satisfied on certain information given to him, not on oath, this measure requires that, at the very least, a police, stipendiary or special magistrate must be satisfied of certain things on information supplied on oath. 
I shall be glad to make any further explanations of the bill in committee. 
[6.6].- I  move- 
That the Senate do  now adjourn. 
On the motion for the adjournment last evening,  Senator Allan  MacDonald re  ferred  to a committee formed to  distribute  a grant of money  made  available by the Commonwealth Government and the Western Australian Government for the relief of those engaged in the pearlshell industry at Broome. He asked whether this committee had made a -report either . to the Federal Government or to the State government, and, if so, whether the report was available to honorable senators. I have had inquiries made and it appears that a report has not yet been made to the Commonwealth Government. The State government was, however, asked during . the current month whether a report had been submitted to it and, if so, whether a copy could be forwarded to the Commonwealth Government. A reply has notyet been received from the State government. Further consideration will be given to the honorable senator's request that the report he made available when this reply is received. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 6.8 p.m. 
On the 23rd October I informed  Senator Johnston  that I would obtain information for him regarding the price and analysis of super phosphate fertilizer. I am now in a position to advise the honorable senator that the prices charged per ton f.o.r. in each capital city and the analysis are as follows :  - 

<graphic href="147332193511075_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Does the Government regard wind tunnels as essential for the conducting of aerodynamic research and experiment? 
Does the department regard the National Physical Laboratory type of wind tunnel installed at the Melbourne University some twelve years ago as a satisfactory type for conducting such experiments? 
Is not the 10-in. open-jet type of wind tunnel in use. at the University of Sydney too small for aerodynamic research? 
Will the Government give early consideration to the erection ofa wind tunnel similar to that erected by the Canadian Government having a jet of9 feet in diameter, and a maximum air speed of 150 miles an hour? 
Will the Government allocate a substantial subsidy for the carrying out of this work? 
I ask for your ruling  Mr. Chairman  as to whether the amendment which seeks to leave out all the words proposed to be inserted is in correct form. It appears to me that the honorable senator's purpose would be achieved by voting against the clause. 
It is competent for  Senator Collings  to move that the words be left out. The amendment is in order. 
While the enforcing of the penal provisions of the act and regulations in this matter is an unpleasant function, the department cannot avoid its obligations. The duties of inspecting officers, however, should be performed in sucha way as to protect the department from any suggestion of injustice or harshness. For this reason, great care should be exercised in the selection of Wireless Licence Inspectors, so that they may be depended upon to represent the department satisfactorily. 
After a report has been made by a Wireless Licence Inspector, indicating clearly the existence of an unlicensed broadcast receiver, the normal practice will he to proceed against the person concerned by a summons and to enforce the penalty subsequently inflicted by the magistrate. There doubtless will he occasional cases where circumstances may justify the  Deputy  Director in waiving a prosecution. In all such cases action should be taken, of course, to ensure that the offence is not continued. 
It will be recognized that these are drastic powers, consequently they should beused sparingly, in cases where the procedure is justified or where there is no alternative. If, for instance, a person who is suspected of using an unlicensed receiver refuses admission to the inspector, a search warrant should be obtained without delay in order that the set may be inspected before its removal. In this connexion, it is important to bear in mind that it is not essential to seize the receiver when a search warrant is issued. The primary object in obtaining a warrant is to gain entry with a view to securing evidence for a prosecution in the usual manner. 
There will be occasions, however, when the seizure of a receiver will be justified, as for example: - 
in the case of a person who refuses to give satisfactory answers to questions relating to an unlicensed receiver in his possession; 
in a case where it is considered that a dealer who installed (and still owns) the unlicensed receiver should he punished, and there is not sufficient evidence to proceed against him on summons. 
In some cases where equipment is seized, the offence may be such that the department will not be fully justified in ultimately retaining the receiver. That being so, the procedure in bringing it before the court should be such as to permit of discretion being exercised in the matter. ... 
When on application for condemnation is contemplated, all parties concerned should be served with a notice, as per example  a,  in the same manner as a summons, a copy, with a sworn statement as to service, being lodged with the court. The same length of time should be allowed between service and appearance, as in the case of a summons. A draft order for condemnation, as per exampleb. should be prepared in readiness for the signature of the magistrate in each case. 
I have read only a portion of the memorandum. It is all in the direction of counselling great care and moderation in these proceedings. 
During the discussion the seizure of wireless receiving sets for non-payment of licence-fees has been criticized by the Opposition, and this after  Senator Brown  gave notice of a question as to the number of such seizures which have taken place. Upon this phase the memorandum is informative - 
When it is borne in mind that, whilst there are nearly 750,000 licensed listeners and that there have been 10.344 convictions of unlicensed listeners, there have only been 29 seizures (21 under the Wireless Telegraphy Act and eight underthe Crimes Act), it will be readily agreed that the powers have been used sparingly. . . Twenty-one of the 29 sets which have been seized have been returned to the owners - in some cases on payment of departmental expenses. Thus, with 10,344 convictions, we have only retained eight receivers. 
That is a complete answer to the fears so frequently expressed during the debate that if the powers now possessed by a constable are extended to a Commonwealth officer they may be used with harshness or severity. 
 Section 9, sub-section 2, of the principal act provides - 
A court  of  summary jurisdiction may, after such notice  (if  any) and  to  such person (if any) as it thinks  fit  to direct, order that any articles so brought before  it  bc condemned or he returned to the person from whom they were taken. 
By adding the new section 9a it is proposed to wipe out the provision I have just quoted and to substitute therefor - 
All property which is forfeited by or under any act or regulations shall, subject to the last preceding section, and unless it is otherwise provided by that act or those regulations, be dealt with as . the Attorney-General directs. 
Apparently it is proposed to leave to the discretion of the Attorney-General the power to deal with forfeited or condemned articles, whereas under the existing law a court of summary jurisdiction may order such goods to be returned to the person from whom they had been taken. I would like to know just what is behind the proposed alteration. 
This amendment has been designed to simplify procedure. Section 9 still stands and clause 4 adds a new section. Sub-section 4 of section 9, reads - 
All articles which are condemned as forfeited shall be dealt with as directed by the Attorney-General, and pending his direction may be detained in such custody as the court directs. 
This provision applies to articles which have already been condemned by a court of summary jurisdiction and it empowers the Attorney-General, to direct what shall be done with such goods. 
No. Goods that have been forfeited become the property of the Government, and when they are condemned the court directs in what custody they shall be detained, pending an order by the AttorneyGeneral for their disposal. The memorandum I read to the committee showed that very few articles have so far come within the ambit of this subsection. The important point for honorable senators to remember is that subsection 4 of section 9 deals only with articles which have been condemned by a court of summary jurisdiction. 
 I am dealing with sub-section 2 of section 9 which it is proposed to wipe out by giving the Attorney-General the last say as to whether goods should be returned or not. This power is now exercised by a court of summary jurisdiction. 
That is not so. Both under the existing law and under the proposed amendment a court of summary jurisdiction has te decide whether or not the goods are forfeited. If they are forfeited then they are the property of the Government, and under the existing act any constable may, without warrant, seize articles which are forfeited or which he has reasonable grounds to believe are forfeited under any law of the Commonwealth, and. take them before a court of summary jurisdiction. That court may, according to section 9, sub-section 2, order that any articles so brought before it be condemned or be returned to the person from whom they were taken. 
That is so. Then, finally, in sub-section 4 of section 9, there is a direction as to what is to happen to such condemned goods. Those provisions are not abrogated by subsection 2 of the proposed new section 9a. 
In that case the goods would not have been condemned so they would be returned. Two things may happen, first, the court may say that the property revests in the person from whom it was seized, and, secondly, it may say that the property is condemned. Only when the property is condemned is the Attorney-General empowered to say what shall be done with it. The honorable senator does not appear to realize that those powers are only exercised after the court has condemned the property. 
I take it that these provisions would apply to unlicensed wireless sets. If a set had been seized by officers of the Postmaster-General's Department, and the court had held that it had been rightly seized, could the owner apply to the court for the return of that set? At that stage would it rest with the Attorney General to say whether or not the set should be returned? Suppose for instance that my wireless set had been seized. If I thought that the set had not been rightly seized, could I apply to the court for its return? And if the court said that I was not entitled to have ir back, would the final decision as to whether or not it should be returned rest with the Attorney-General? 
 The honorable senator is wrong in supposing that in the circumstances he has mentioned the obligation to take further steps would rest on him. Those who seized a wireless set would have to proceed to obtain an order of the court for its condemnation. If they merely seized a set, and went no further, the owner could take proceedings against them for its return. Should the set be condemned by the court, the interest of the previous owner in it would disappear, and the disposal of the set would, by this bill, be vested in the Attorney-General. 
.  - Could a man whose wireless set had been seized and condemned, make application to the Attorney-General for the return of the set to him, and could the 
Attorney-General return the set after the court had condemned it ? 
Yes but that would be not so much a matter of law as an exercise of the prerogative of mercy. If the ease it" one for sympathy, there is nothing in this bill to preclude the AttorneyGeneral from saying that the penalty heed not be enforced or from returning the set. 
I do not assume that this bill has been introduced to make the Crimes Act more merciful than before. 
My criticism of the bill is based on the belief that it has been introduced to make the existing legislation more severe. Sub-section  3  of proposed new section  9a  reads - 
Any direction of the Attorney-General given in pursuance of this section may be given subject to such terms and conditions (if any) as the Attorney-General thinks fit. 
The bill gives to the Attorney-General the right to decide whether condemned goods shall, or shall not, be returned, and in the case of goods which are returned to impose conditions. I can conceive of circumstances arising which would make those conditions unsatisfactory to the owner of the goods. 
So long as I believe that the honorable senator is seeking information, I shall continue to give that information, irrespective of the number of times I may have to rise in order to do so. This .provision is a denial of the honorable senator's proposition that the bill has been introduced to make the Crimes Act more drastic. The provision before us is designed to make that act less drastic. Originally, the legislation provided that all articles which have been condemned as forfeited shall be dealt with as directed by the Attorney-General, and pending his direction, may be detained in such custody as the courtdirects. The proposal in this bill is that any direction of the Attorney-General may be given subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as he thinks fit. The Attorney-General might say: "You are in arrears with your payments; but as you have shown that you have been, the victim of circumstances,  I shall  return the wireless set to you if you undertake to pay the arrears within  a  certain time." Far from being more punitive than the existing legislation, the new provision is really ameliorative in that it gives the Attorney-'General discretionary power in cases of hardship. 
The Minister will persist in treating inquiries from this side of the chamber as though we were considering  n  bill to increase the powers of the PostmasterGeneral. I object to being told continually that this  provision applies to  wireless sets. I have in mind the conditions under which the Crimes Act is intended to operate, and I can imagine goods other than wireless sets being confiscated under the powers given to the Minister and his officers under this bill. For instance, some of the books in my library at home may be forfeited under this legislation. It only needs some inquisitorial officer to enter my home; and inspect my library, and to decide in the ignorant way in which the censorship is usually exercised that certain books of mine ought to be forfeited, and they will be condemned. 
With the whole of the press of the country, excepting  a  few Labour newspapers, poisoning the minds of the community, how could I expect fair treatment? 
I do not think that the Minister can expect me to be satisfied with the statement that the Attorney-General will be interested only in wireless sets which unfortunate citizens have been unable to pay for. The powers conferred by this legislation will be used chiefly in regard to other goods. Why is the Attorney-General being empowered to impose conditions with regard to the return of goods belonging to  a  citizen who may be able to show that they should not have been impounded? Goods other than books may be seized. For instance, I may possess  a  collection of the flags of various nations, including those of the Soviet republic, Italy,  or  some other country repugnant to the powers that be at the moment. I do not object to a court of summary jurisdiction, which would hear the evidence, deciding what should be condemned, but why should the power be transferred to the Attorney-General ? 
I have referred to wireless sets particularly only for the purpose of instancing what may be done under this legislation. We have learned from the Minister's statement that wireless sets have been seized by government officials, who have entered people's homes without a warrant. 
Unless I heard him incorrectly, the Minister stated that when an officer is refused entrance, he, or the department, may apply for a warrant, and, on obtaining it, he may conduct his investigation. 
Last week, I referred to property other than wireless sets and the Minister interjected that I was incorrect when I said that the officer could seize certain books. Now, in answer to  Senator Collings,  he has stated that it is quite possible for books to bo seized. They may relate to an unlawful association which preaches a certain political doctrine. But because a person has in his library certain books that are printed by an unlawful association, it does not follow that he agrees with the views they express. In my own library, I possess books dealing with philosophical anarchy, general strikes, communism, and the lives of Trotsky, Stalin, Lenin, Mussolini and Hitler. At some future time some of these books may be seized, because the Government has declared that a certain organization is unlawful, and that all books dealing with it are liable to be condemned. I advance this merely as a hypothetical case. The latest book by  Mr. W.  M. Hughes - a reasonable and logical exposition of present day circumstances - may be seized. 
If a book is seized by a government official, and is condemned by the court, the Attorney- 
General may decide whether it shall be returned to. the owner or sold and the proceeds paid into Consolidated Revenue. The Attorney-General may be a tory and bitterly opposed to the sentiment contained in certain books. He is given wide powers. It should not be in the discretion of the Attorney-General to seize and dispose of a person's property. I favour the insertion of a proviso that if the court, for instance, condemns a wireless set for non-payment of the licence-fee the goods shall be returned to the owner if he pays what is due to the Government. If the Minister believes in fair play, how can he justify the seizure of, say, a wireless set, valued at £40, because a person has not paid the licence-fee of 21s., and the sale of the instrument by the Government to benefit the Consolidated Revenue? 
I admit that, but this bill covers a fairly wide range of goods. 
I can read into this new section the possibility of certain individuals being singled out because they are propagandists or radicals, and the Government is suspicious of their doctrines. Their goods may be seized. While not advocating that stolen or counterfeit goods should not be liable to seizure, I fear that in times of stress, perhaps in the near future, as a result of the present trouble in Europe, an innocent man, who conscientiously advocates certain principles or studies certain ideals, may be liable to have the books in his possession relating to such subjects seized. 
The Minister said that books could be seized, and that the court would hear the defence of the owner. Nevertheless, it does seem grossly unfair that because a person has not paid the licence-fee on a wireless set, the instrument may be seized and condemned, and that it shall rest with the Attorney- 
General to say whether it shall  be returned  to him or sold. 
If only one were seized improperly a wrong would be done. Possibly we shall get some information from the Minister as to the exact number seized for the non-payment of the listener's licence. 
Perhaps not; but it should be possible to insert in the clause a provision making mandatory the return to the owner of any wireless receiver that has been seized, upon payment of the full amount owing for the licence, together with any expenses that may have been incurred in connexion with its seizure. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 - 
Section seventeen of the Principal Act is amended - 
by inserting, after sub-section (1.), the following sub-section: - " (1a) Notwithstanding anything contained in the last preceding subsection, wherea person apparently of the age of seventeen years or upwards is convicted of an indictable offences against any law of the Commonwealth (whether he has been previously convicted of any offence or not), the court before which he is convicted may, if it thinks fit, having regard to the antecedents, character, associates, age, health or mental condition of the person convicted, the nature of the offence, or any special circumstances of the ease - 
direct,as part of his sentence, that, on the expiration of the term of imprisonment then imposed upon him,he be detained during the Governor-General's pleasure in a reformatory prison; or 
without imposing any term of imprisonment . upon him, sentence him to be forthwith committed to a reformatory prison and to be there detained during the GovernorGeneral's pleasure."; and 
I move - 
That the words " apparently of the age of seventeen years or upwards " be left out. 
In my second-reading speech I pointed out that this new clause which is not exactly germane to the general provisions  of tlie act bad been inserted largely as the result of opinions expressed by learned judges. I- have been supplied with the particulars of one case in which the accused was convicted of stealing part of a postal article but was released upon his entering into a bond to come up for sentence when called upon within two years of such release. Some months later he was convicted under a State law on a charge of unlawful possession and four charges of larceny. He was then brought before the court for sentence in respect of the original conviction. When imposing sentence the judge expressed the view that the accused appeared to have no intention of leading an honest life and that he would have been ordered to be detained in a reformatory prison during the Governor-General's pleasure had the judge jurisdiction to make such an order. Under the Victorian law. the judge has jurisdiction to order an indeterminate sentence. This provision was inserted in the clause to give the court jurisdiction which at present it has not, when dealing with young offenders, though it is not necessarily^ confined to young offenders. The words " apparently of the age of 17 years or upwards" appear in the Victorian act, on which this clause is modelled, because children's courts have been established in that State to deal with offenders up to the age of 17 years. Under the Victorian act also, regard may be had to the antecedents, character, associates, age, health and mental condition of the person convicted. As no good purpose will be "served by retaining the words " apparently of the age of 17 years or upwards" I ask the committee to accept the amendment to leave them out. 
I commend the Minister for having moved this amendment. The proposed new sub-section is one of the most savage provisions ever sought to be included in Commonwealth legislation. I remind the Minister that, in his secondreading speech, when answering an inquiry by  Senator Brown  as to whether the provisions of this clause would apply principally to youths, he answered in the affirmative, and added that the purpose was to give convicted youths  a chance to reform whilst still young. Is it contended that they would have a chance to reform if -they were declared habitual criminals and ordered to be detained during the GovernorGeneral's pleasure? The Minister can be quite sure that we on this side of the chamber will support the amendment. But it does not get rid of our objection to the clause which deals with much more important matters than the seizure of a wireless receiver for the non-payment  of  the licence-fee. The act, as amended by this bill, will become operative during times of great public excitement and I object to the provision in this clause empowering the prosecution to have regard to the antecedents, character and associates of persons who may be charged with offence? under this act. Let me take my own case as an illustration. If I were the victim of a prosecution under this proposed new sub-section, and if the prosecutor made inquiry into my antecedents, he would learn that my father was much the same kind of individual as myself. Then if he inquired about my associates he would discover that in times of political excitement I was associated with others in advocating the overthrow, at the ballot-box, of the present Government. That, no doubt, would be distasteful enough to ensure my detention during the GovernorGeneral's pleasure. The prosecutor might go further and inquire into my health and if it were impaired, as it was a few months ago, he might conclude that  l  ought to be hurried along; while if he made an investigation of my mental condition in times of great political excitement it is almost certain that he would decide that I ought to bo completely suppressed. But I assure honorable senators that I am not joking. When the amended act becomes operative, as no doubt it will towards the end of November - the British elections are fixed for the 14th November and the application of sanctions against Italy for the lSt.li November - there will be many in active opposition to the Government's proposals, and were I the person against whom a prosecution was launched .my antecedents and associates and perhaps also my mental condition would be suspect. Thus I might be regarded as a. menace to the 
Government, and I might be detained during the Governor-General's pleasure. I should like to hear some explanation from the Minister to justify this extraordinary enlargement of the power of the prosecution. 
I am at a loss to understand what further information I can furnish to  Senator Collings,  because, in my second-reading speech, 1 dealt at some length with the various provisions of the hill, and I have just made a few explanatory remarks giving reasons for the amendment. I would also correct  Senator Collings  when he says that the original act contained no provision for the detention of convicted persons during the Governor-General's pleasure. Section 17, sub-section 4, provides that the law of a State ot territory relating to indeterminate sentences shall apply to any person detained in a reformatory prison, but subject to such modifications as the Governor-General thinks fit to direct. Sub-section 1 of the same section states that a person may be declared to be an habitual criminal if he has been twice convicted of an indictable offence. The provisions of this bill are somewhat wider than that sub-section. A person previously convicted may be sent to a reformatory. All that the prosecution can do is to bring the accused person before a court. The court which considers all the matters mentioned in the proposed new sub-section, decides what is to be done. I am at a loss to understand why it should be suggested that a judge should not have the power to inquire into such matters, or why the mere fact that he has that right adds to the severity of the proposed new sub-section. This provision, which is taken from the Victorian Act, is intended to be reformatory rather. than punitive. It is only .bringing the powers which the judges have said the court should possess into line with the powers they possess when dealing with offences under the State law. The proposed new subsection has no particular reference to periods of unusual excitement or anything of that nature. It is being introduced to deal only with ordinary persons who are being dealt with every day in the courts. There is no reason why it should be sug gested that it has some sort of industrial complexion. The particular case which I cited was that of a person who, in peaceful times, committed an offence, but who, when released upon 'bond, committed other offences. Seeing that he was determined to lead a life of mime the judge imposed, beyond his jurisdiction, an indeterminate sentence. This sentence was subsequently corrected, but we wish to remedy a defect in the law and bring Commonwealth law into line with the State law, which has been found effective in this  particular matter. There is nothing sinister in the proposed new sub-section. It is not aimed at the Leader of the Opposition or any of his colleagues on the Opposition bench or outside of this chamber. It is to deal with ordinary persons in ordinary times. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The proposed new sub-section as amended provides that -  . . where a person is convicted of an indictable offence against any law of the Commonwealth (whether he has been previously convicted of any offence or not) the court before which he is convicted may, if it thinks fit . . . direct, as part of his sentence, that, on the expiration of the term of imprisonment then imposed upon him, lie be detained during the Governor-General's pleasure in a reformatory prison. 
There is a great fear in the minds of the leaders of certain organizations in Australia that, in the event of an international or industrial upheaval, they may be subject to the Crimes Act, and be punished unduly. It is all very well for the Assistant Minister  ('Senator Brennan)  to say that this measure has nothing whatever to do with periods of unusual excitement, but during a strike the leaders of certain industrial organizations may be accused of seditious utterances. Under the act certain organizations, including industrial organizations, may be declared unlawful associations, and the members of such organizations are afraid that they may be charged with an indictable offence. Oan the Assistant Minister deny that that is probable? If he can, many intelligent members oi working-class organizations throughout Australia are entirely wrong. Only a few nights ago the speakers at a huge meeting held in Brisbane expressed the fear that if this amending measure becomes law industrial leaders may bo brought before the court and placed in gaol for an indefinite period. We do not wish to prevent the Government from taking any action it considers necessary to deal with persons who preach sedition, or who attempt in any way to suborn the members of the naval, military or air forces in Australia; but the members of certain organizations who have no interest whatsoever in military, naval, or air force operations may be brought before a court and punished. Under the proposed new section a person who has not been convicted previously may be incarcerated for the remainder of his life. Under the Queensland law a convicted person must have two or three previous convictions against him before lie. can be detained in prison for an indefinite period. Under this measure a person who has not been convicted previously may be kept in gaol indefinitely. 
Guilty of only one indictable offence. During a period of international or industrial trouble a particularly enthusiastic person may make certain statements which in ordinary times would be disregarded, but under this legislation he may be detained indefinitely. During periods of comparative international and industrial peace, the most alarming statements are made in Hyde Park, London, and in the Domain in Sydney, by the representatives of certain organizations, and no action is taken. 
I am not.  Instances  have occurred in this country where innocent persons have been imprisoned for fifteen years.  Mr. Donald  Grant, a member of the New South Wales Legislative Council and also of the Sydney City Council, who was sentenced to imprisonment for fifteen years was eventually released. 
It was found on further inquiries being made that he was not guilty. He was supposed to serve a term of imprisonment for fifteen years, but he served only three years. 
Further inquiries were made, and he was released. I cite this case to show that during periods of excitement judges as well as others may be biased. Yet it is proposed to give to the court power to say that a man, after serving the sentence for his original conviction, shall be kept in durance vile for an unlimited period. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
This measure . proposes to empower a court to impose indeterminate sentences. We strongly object to that. This legislation is akin to fascism, which is operating to-day in Germany, for instance, where every one opposed to the policy of the Hitler administration may be consigned to an internment camp. This measure abrogates rights for which our forefathers fought, and it practically sets at naught the principles embodied in  Magna Charta.  In times of general unrest, political offences of various kinds may be committed, but I ask the Minister why this Government should seek the power, which it has not got under the existing act, to consign political offenders to a reformatory prison which may be anything which the administration of the time prescribes. Is not the present act sufficient to punish justly any offender in this respect? 
We cannot view this bill as an ordinary crimes measure. In fact, the title of the bill is misleading. If it were to be applied to offences commonly described as crimes, such as stealing or forgery, or other offences unfortunately common . among certain sections of the community, one would not oppose it, but members of the Opposition feel that it is primarily designed to apply to political offences and to curb expression of thought on political matters. This clause is sandwiched in between a clause dealing with seizure of property and another dealing with inciting to mutiny. Such property may include revolutionary or other literature considered by the authorities to be undesirable. Like my colleagues, I possess certain books which may come within this category ; among them is a work entitled  Progress by  Revolution.  I once possessed a hook entitled  The Right to Be Lazy,  by  Lafargue.  As I read clause 4 such books may be seized, and if I were sentenced for having them in my possession I might be kept in gaol for an indefinite period. The clause we are now considering and the subsequent clause dealing with incitement to mutiny are ugly reminders of the significance of this measure so far as it may apply to political offences. If the measure, as its title would at first imply, were concerned only with recognized criminal offences against property or the wellbeing of the community we would not worry about it, hut supporters of the Labour party, as our opponents who read the press must he aware, have held meetings to protest against it, and have condemned it unreservedly. For the reason that its provisions can be applied to political offenders I strongly object, to this clause. 
The court of course; but I should not like to entrust my personal liberty to a court. In the records of the courts of this country I am a political felon and I hope that some day a Labour government will expunge from the records the names of persons convicted of political offences in wartime. During the war, in attempting to defend the freedom of the press, I was convicted-, under war-time measures, on more than a dozen occasions of certain offences, and finally I was sentenced to two months' imprisonment without the option. Thus I am aware of what a court can do in a time of unrest, and am convinced that at such times certain judges are biased. Judges have their own way of looking at political offences. Although this clause is not so bad as other clauses of the bill I strongly object to it. There can be no doubt that its provisions are intended to be applied to political misdemeanours. Through this clause the Government intends to deal with red hot Communists, but its provisions may be used against milder persons like my colleagues and myself. For these reasons I oppose the giving of extra power to any one to keep offenders in gaol for an indefinite period. 
The Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  mentioned that in Victoria the courts had power to sentence persons who had not .previously been convicted, for indeterminate periods. He also mentioned that certain judges had suggested that this proposed amendment should be embodied in the Commonwealth Crimes Act. Is it not a fact that in Victoria, there is a board of laymen to deal with indeterminate sentences? Furthermore, can the Assistant Minister mention any other State where a man, having served his sentence, can be detained in a reformatory prison for an indefinite period? Some of our present judges may be lineal descendants of " Bloody Jeffreys." The majority of them are human, but certain judges are prejudiced against political offenders just as supporters of this Government have bitter prejudices against Communists. Personally I have no prejudices of this nature, because I recall that at one stage of my career I preached certain ideas, which I then believed to be well-founded, and for the benefit of humanity; I may not hold such ideas to-day. I point out further, that because they find themselves  undeservedly in poverty certain people are drawn towards such organizations as the Communist party. These people, if their own circumstances were different, and gave them an opportunity for physical and mental development, would not hold such views. If this Government showed equal enthusiasm for the elimination of the economic conditions under which many people suffer, there would not be any need for this dastardly and damnable repressive legislation. Members of the Opposition claim that indeterminate sentences are wrong. No clean-living or clean-minded Australian would agree that any court should be given the power to send a man to prison for an indeterminate period after he had served his original sentence for a particular offence. If a man is sentenced to a term of one year or five years, and .serves that time, he should bc released. If the term of imprisonment prescribed by law is not sufficient, Parliament should fix a longer period, but whatever the duration of the sentence may be, a man having served it should not be kept under lock and key simply because he may hold political opinions opposed to those of the government of the day. I have no sympathy with certain agitators as such, but I point out that thousands of decent young men, because of their political leanings, may come within the ambit of these provisions, and render themselves liable to be kept under lock and key indefinitely. What is the need for such a provision? 
Apparently in Victoria the court is not trusted; the offenders must go before a board composed of non-legal persons. 
My information comes from a Victorian "learned friend " of the Assistant Minister, but whether I am right or wrong, no court should have the power to sentence a man to indefinite imprisonment. The court should not have the power to detain a man in gaol indefinitely after he has served his sentence. The position would be different if a homicidal maniac were concerned. This bill, however, has in mind, not a homicidal maniac, hut a person who holds advanced or radical political views. Probably he holds such views because, under existing social conditions, he is deprived of his fair share of even the necessaries of life. If we were to legislate to give every citizen the right to live decently there would be no need for drastic legislation of this kind, for there would then be no revolutionaries or communists. The Labour party is opposed to the clause, and it hopes that the committee will reject it. 
I am not convinced by the arguments of the Opposition. Senators J. V. MacDonald and Brown have seized on this clause to attack the judges of our courts. I imagine that the notorious Judge Jeffreys has been introduced into this discussion only with the object of prejudicing the minds of honorable senators, since there is no evidence that any Australian judge of a similar disposition has ever delivered a judgment under the Crimes Act. If there is one thing that Australian judges have proved it is that in times of political excitement they can remain calm and even-tempered, notwithstanding that the rest of the community, or at least sections of it, are greatly excited. 
The more excited certain sections of the community become, the greater the need for penalties which may act as a deterrent. 
On  examining this clause I cannot see the slightest justification for the diatribes to which we have listened to-day. Unlike the section which it amends, it applies not. to a person who has been convicted three times and may be declared an habitual criminal, but to a person who has been convicted of an indictable offence whether or not he has been previously convicted of an offence. In such cases, the clause provides that -  . . the court before which ho is convicted may, if it thinks fit, having regard to the antecedents, character, age, health or mental condition of the person convicted, the nature of the offence, or any special circumstances of the case - 
direct, as part of his sentence, that, on the expiration of the term of imprisonment then imposed upon him. he be detained during the GovernorGeneral's pleasure in a reformatory prison. 
Certainly I do. Is a man who is not sane to be allowed to roam about to the danger of the community. 
There may be  in  the community persons who, although not insane, are mentally weak and easily led astray by bad associates, and whose best interests would be served by detention in a reformatory prison. Paragraph  b  of proposed new sub-section 1a provides an alternative in that the court may if it thinks fit - without imposing any term of imprisonment upon him, sentence him to be forthwith committed to a reformatory prison and to be detained during the Governor-General's pleasure. 
When we reflect on the drastic action taken by the governments of some countries to deal with persons who do not agree with them, we must conclude that the provisions of this bill are most reasonable. Our judges will see that this power is exercised reasonably, and in the interests, not only of the community as a whole, but also of the offender himself. The outcry of the Opposition in relation to the judges of our courts has nothing to do with the clause which, in my opinion, is most moderate- 
I cannot imagine that  Senator Dein  is so ignorant as not to know something of the proceedings in the courts of this land. An ounce of experience is worth a ton of theory, and, therefore, as one who for many years attended various courts in a journalistic capacity, I believe that I have some knowledge of the working of our judicial system. We have to consider this bill in the light of the conditions existing in times of great excitement. During the war I was the editor of a newspaper against which a charge of constructive libel was laid. As I did not know the plaintiff, who was a returned soldier, I was innocent of any libellous intent. Nevertheless, the charge was laid. The directors of the newspaper sought the advice of a leading barrister, who is now  a  -judge of an Australian court - one of Australia's ablest men, and one politically opposed to Labour. When he had studied the case, the barrister said that it was undoubtedly one of blackmail. He then said that, as the times were abnormal, it would be useless to say in court what was known of the man, for by so doing the defendants would merely be adding libel to libel. He advised the directors to settle the case out of court. His advice was accepted, because the directors knew that the jury, as well as the judge, would have been biased against the newspaper. That is an instance of ;in eminent barrister who is now a judge advising his clients not to seek justice in the courts. A person charged with a political crime could not expect justice in times of great excitement. This bill deals, not with such offences as theft from the person, or burglary, but with political offences. Accused persons will not receive much consideration from judges who are not in favour of workingclass theories. 
It is not right to empower the court to impose an indeterminate sentence on a man merely because of some political offence which he is supposed to have committed. 
The next clause, clause 6, deals with attempts to incite to mutiny, which, in certain cases, could have a political complexion. This Parliament is faced with a serious duty when it sets out to say what constitutes a crime and what the punishment for that crime shall be. We frequently hear of magistrates and judges expressing regret that they must administer the law as they find it. We are now considering a new law, and we should not be guided by prejudice. Australia has got along very well since 17S8 without legislation of this kind. Not. even during the greatest crisis in the nation's history, between 1914 and 1918, was such legislation thought necessary; but now, in times of peace, drastic legislation is introduced in order to deal with political offenders. 
During my long experience of the law, I have known judges and magistrates frequently to express regret that they could not avoid administering the strict letter of the statutes. They realized that the possibility of. an appeal always existed. The present provision goes from bad to worse. The Crimes Act is already formidable, but the Government now seeks to curtail freedom of thought and the freedom of the press. Parliament should not give  a court, which, after all, is composed of men who are liable to be influenced by passions and prejudices, discretionary power .to detain a person in gaol indefinitely for a political misdemeanour. 
 The statement has been made that a man may be sent to gaol on an indeterminate sentence, whether previously convicted or not. That is not accurate. The sections under consideration deal with the case of a man who has been convicted. 
Before a person can have imposed on him an indeterminate sentence he must have been convicted of an. indictable offence against a law of the Commonwealth.  Senator Brown  said that in Victoria a board of laymen inquires into certain cases before trial. 
The Victorian board consists of three members, one of whom, is a well-known humanitarian,  Mr. Samuel  Mauger. Prisoners are kept under observation to ascertain whether the reformatory treatment is having n good effect on them. When satisfied with their conduct, the board may recommend their release. The prisoners may leave gaol at the expiration of the term fixed by the judge, or they may be detained for a further period and kept under observation. It has been said that this Senate has no right to endow a judge with the power to keep a man " indefinitely in durance vile ". We empower a judge to impose sentences according to his discretion, but after the sentence has expired, the judge's power ceases.  Senator Collings  suggested that we should not grant to a judge the. power to order a person to be detained in custody after he has served his sentence. If  Senator Collings  will study this section, he will see that part of the sentence is that the prisoner shall be detained in a reformatory during the pleasure of the GovernorGeneral. 
Is the prisoner any better off because the judge sentences him to five years' imprisonment, and thereafter to be detained in a reformatory during the Governor-General's pleasure, than if he were merely detained during the Governor-General's pleasure, without a fixed sentence having been imposed? I have stressed that the bill is ameliorative, and docs not increase the harshness of the original act.  Senator J.  V. MacDonald mentioned that the Senate had a serious duty in defining what is a crime. Are we to shirk our duty because it is serious? Is not one of the first duties of civilization to deal with crime and the maintenance of order ? The Government has approached this matter with a full realization of its responsibility, and does not treat it in a spirit of levity. 
The Labour party is not likely to forget that the Crimes Act itself originated in the War Precautions Act during the stirring times of 1914. The sections of which we complain were passed during the war. I direct attention to the Minister's remarks in reference to clause 5 in his second-reading speech, and I ask him how he can reconcile his statements then with his replies to our inquiries today. He said - 
Clause 5 deals with indeterminate sentences. This provision is, perhaps, a little alien to the general purpose of the measure; but it is inserted because certain difficul ties in regard to indeterminate sentences have arisen as between the Commonwealth and some of thu States. Under the Commonwealth law, before a person can be given an indeterminate sentence, he must previously have been convicted nf serious offences on at least two occasion.". Cases have arisen in which the judges have thought that it would have been desirable to impose an indeterminate sentence, even though there had been no previous conviction of the person concerned. Provision to that effect is embodied in the Victorian law; and it is now inserted in the Commonwealth law on the suggestion of the judges. 
In other words, because the act is not savage enough, we are asked to bring it into line with the laws of two other States, whose crimes legislation is the most severe in the Commonwealth. Th. Labour party will avail itself of its privilege and responsibility to vote against the clause. That is all we can do. 
I am satisfied that this clause should be amended, and I believe that it will be recast in the House of Representatives where honorable members may not be so ready to support the Government. I am gratified to know that the Minister has already seen that several points in the bill require amendment. 
I move - 
That paragraph (a) be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following paragraph -  (a)  by adding at the end of subsection ( 1 ) the words " ; or in the case of a corporation, One thousand pounds." 
Under sub-section 1 of section 25, any person who knowingly attempts to seduce any person in the King's forces from his duty and allegiance, or incites him to commit an act of mutiny or any traitorous or mutinous act, or to make or endeavour to make a mutinous assembly, may be imprisoned for life. I understand that the Ministry desires to have included provision for penalties against corporate bodies which may be found guilty of indictable offences. My amendment does that, the penalty being £1,000.  Senator Collings  has pointed out that this provision in the act has never been operated. Perhaps theexplanation is that the risk of imprisonment for life has proved an effective deterrent to persons who otherwise might become mischievous. 
We, on this side, have no desire whatever to make easy the path for any person or persons who knowingly attempts to seduce persons serving in the defence forces from their duty and allegiance. We intend to be very careful indeed so that we may not be misunderstood, though I have no doubt whatever that we shall be misrepresented.  Senator Allan  MacDonald's amendment seeks to impose a penalty on corporate bodies. We shall not oppose it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move - 
That the words " Five hundred pounds or " proposed new sub-section (1a) be left out, with a view to insert after the word " years " the words, " or in the case of a corporation, five hundred pounds." 
The intention is to make the penalty imprisonment for two years in the case of any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, or newspaper containing matter of such a nature as to, or as to be likely to seduce any person serving in the Kings's forces from his duty or allegiance or to commit an act of mutiny, and in the case of a corporation, to make the penalty five hundred pounds. 
If the amendment be agreed to a publisher or a newspaper proprietor found guilty under this provision will be imprisoned for two years. The suggested amendment has to be read in conjunction with proposed new subsection Ia, which provides that - 
Any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper containing any matter of such a nature as to, or as to be likely to -  [a)  seduce any person serving in the King's forces from his duty . . . 
Wc are not likely to agree to such a penalty being imposed while the words " or as to be likely to " remain in the bill. I presume that a publisher has to make up his mind whether words used are " likely to " seduce any person serving in the King's forces. That is a very difficult matter to determine. "Who is to decide whether words used are likely to seduce any person? 
As I have already said in connexion, with other clauses, these provisions will operate only in times of public excitement, and on such occasions judges or juries cannot be expected to give unbiased verdicts. We do not believe that any one serving in His Majesty's Forces should be seduced from his duty, but to place on the publisher of any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper the onus of showing that certain words are or are not "likely" to seduce any person, would he to go too far. In the event of a big industrial upheaval the militia may be called out. 
We know that at periods of excitement it is an easy matter to pass amending legislation to make that possible. Will the Assistant Minister explain this provision? 
The whole section proposed to be amended .deals with a very important subject, including incit ing to mutiny. Notwithstanding the serious statements made concerning the Crimes Act the prosecutions under it - the most drastic portions of it have been in force since 1926 - have been remarkably few. The argument of the Leader of the Opposition goes to the root of the administration of criminal law. In connexion with every crime there must be" a time when certain matters have to be proved in accordance with the law. It may be left to a judge who, after hearing both sides, accepts the statement of one side as having been proved. It is quite true that, in cases of this kind, we can have only fallible human beings as material, and a judge may be wrong in his finding on facts. All judges make an honest endeavour to give a just decision. The clause relates to an indictable offence., which means that  persons  charged shall be tried before a jury. The jury is directed by the judge, and the meaning of the words " as to be likely to" have to be interpreted by him. He has to determine whether they are of such a nature to seduce any person serving in the King's forces from his duty and allegiance, or to incite any person serving in such forces to commit an act of mutiny or any traitorous or mutinous act, or incite any person to make or endeavour to make a mutinous assembly. It is quite true that there may be difficulties in coming to a decision on such a matter; but, if there should be, the invariable rule of law is that the accused person shall be given the benefit of the doubt. In such cases a direction is given to the jury by the judge. After all these precautions have been taken a jury may arrive at an erroneous conclusion. They must act on the evidence before them, and they must be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the words used are of such a nature as to or as to be likely to incite to mutiny. If the court were so satisfied, the accused person would be found guilty. The time to adopt precautionary measures is in comparatively, peaceful times. This proposed amendment is not likely to apply to any person to whom it should not.be applied. 
I understood  Senator Brown  to say that the members of the Opposition, do not wish to protect the suborner or the sed] tiona s,t. I am loath to believe that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and those with whom he is associated will oppose this amendment, which is aimed at corporations with which the members of his party do not wish to be associated. Members of the Opposition have already agreed to a similar amendment, which provides that the penalty to be imposed on the individual shall be imprisonment without the option of a fine. As a corporation cannot be incarcerated, I am suggesting that the penalty shall be a monetary one. The amendment provides a deterrent, and I trust that the committee will accept it. 
.- I do not feel disposed to support  the  amendment. Judges and juries are not infallible, and it seems to me that a judge should have discretionary powers. If the amendment be carried, that discretionary power will be removed. 
There is no provision for the imposition of a fine upon individuals, although I can imagine eases where a substantial fine would prove a sufficient deterrent. It should be left with the judge to determine whether a fine should be imposed or imprisonment ordered. I suggest that the honorable senator should withdraw his amendment, and leave the proposed new section in its present form. because, if adopted, an already drastic measure will be made even more severe. Under the bill a3 drafted a fine could be imposed; but it is now proposed that the only penalty applicable to an individual shall be imprisonment for two years. The honorable senator desires that the pecuniary penalty shall apply only to a corporate body. As this would make the law unnecessarily drastic, I suggest that the Minister should not accept the amendment. After all, the determination of the penalty will rest with the judge- 
It is proposed by  Senator Allan  MacDonald that if a person is convicted of having, whether knowingly or not, published something likely to seduce any person serving in the King's Forces from his duty and allegiance, he shall be sentenced to imprisonment for two years without the option of a fine. That is too drastic and I shall oppose the amendment. 
I am sorry that at first glance I did not realize that the first amendment moved by  Senator Allan  MacDonald differed in principle from this amendment. I agree with  Senator Leckie  that the proposal now before the Committee will take away from the court the option of imposing a pecuniary penalty on the offender. This being so, we should not depart from the principle contained in the hill that the court be given a discretion in fixing the penalty. The proposed amendment of sub-section (1) was intended to cover the case of a corporation which could not be imprisoned, and the only penalty which could be imposed on an individual was imprisonment for life. In this case, the prescription of a pecuniary penalty for a corporation only would rob an individual accused of the benefit of the court's discretion to sentence him to imprisonment or impose upon him a fine. In those circumstances, I suggest that the honorable senator should withdraw his amendment. 
I am not clear as to the meaning of the phrase " or as to be likely to ". The Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  stated that if a doubt exists the person before the court is given the benefit of that doubt. According to my interpretation of this phrase the court will be deprived of the opportunity to extend the benefit of the doubt to the accused. If the publication with which the court is concerned is without a doubt seditious, the person is guilty and sentenced accordingly; if, without a doubt, it is not seditious that is the end of the case and the person before the court is discharged. But where a" doubt exists that phrase will militate against the accused rather than in his favour. 
The Opposition definitely opposes this clause. 
I have said previously that we are opposed to people who try deliberately to create mutiny in the King's Forces. There is a vast difference between section 25 of the principal act and this clause which seeks to amend that section. The existing section deals witha man who incites to mutiny ; the proposed amendment deals with a man who publishes a book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper containing any matter " of such a nature as to, oras to be likely to " seduce a person serving in the King's Forces from his duty and allegiance. In Funk and Wagnall's Dictionary the meaning of " likely " is stated thus - 
Reasonably expected; showing a tendency; liable; apt; (as an adverb)in all probability; probably; generally used with most, quite, very, &amp;c. ; likely refers to acontingent event regarded as very probable, and usually, though not always, favorable. 
Section . 25 includes the word "knowingly ",but the bill leaves out that word, and adds the words " likely to ". This change, as  Senator Dein  has pointed out, is very wide in its scope. The dictionary meaning of "seduce" is - 
To draw aside from duty; rectitude, obligation or truth by misrepresentation, flattery, promises, bribes or otherwise; draw into error or evil; entice from the right; lead astray; corrupt. 
When the words "likely to" and " seduce " are used together, they admit of a very broad interpretation, and, I submit, a very dangerous interpretation in time of public excitement. At such a time the meaning of these words may be interpreted so broadly that a perfectly earnest and innocent citizen who attempts to tell, for instance, the true history of the war which may result from the imposition of sanctions against Italy, may be penalized under this clause. Let us postulate, for instance, a ease which might arise out of the present international situation. The former Minister for Health and Repatriation  (Mr. Hughes)  has just published a book in which he states that the imposition of sanctionswill lead to war. For having made that statement he has been driven out of office. Negotiations have been in progress for the last 20 or 30 years be tween France, Italy and 'Great Britain for the economic partition of Abyssinia. Suppose that as the result of the imposition of sanctions, war between Italy and Great Britain is declared. Not"knowingly" a person may publish the story of thesenegotiations, and, it may be alleged by theGoverwnent,that it has hadthe effect of seducing or being " likelyto " seduce certain persons from theirduty to the King. Upon the prosecutor who would be the representative of the Government in the court would fall the dutyof proving to the judge that the words which the accused probably unknowingly published were " likely to " seduce a person from his service to the King. The prosecutormightargue that the words would very likely have this effectupon soldiers whoread thearticle. It wouldbe an entirely differentmatter if a publisher directly asked a man deliberately to throw aside his allegiance to the King. 
The danger arises here that a supporter of the Labour movement who, unlike certain revolutionaries has no desire to cause mutiny im anyof  His  Majesty's forces, might deliver a speech and immediately be arrested and arraigned before the court. He would be told by the court that his words were "likely to" at some time in the future - just when, nobody knows - "seduce " a person from his duty to the King. I take it that the term " publishes " would apply to verbal as wellas to written or printed expressions. We claim that the clause is so broad that it is possible for an injustice tobe done to a perfectly innocent man. 
[5.50].  -  I assure honorable senators that this clause has not been drafted in its present form without good reason. It is based, not on any theory, but on an actual happening - an unsuccessful prosecution under section 25 of the principal act which reads - 
Any person who knowingly attempts - 
to seduce any person serving in the King's Forces from his duty and allegiance; or 
to incite any person serving in the King's Forces to commit an act of mutiny, or any traitorous or mutinous act; or 
to incite any person serving in the King's Forces to make or endeavour to make a mutinous assembly, shall be guilty of an indictable offence. 
About two  years  ago there was a deliberate attempt to stir up disaffection in the Royal Australian Navy. Some of the ships of the Navy were at Port Melbourne and a week-end newspaper, printed in Melbourne, published a statement to the effect that there had been a mutiny on other ships of thu Royal Australian Navy in Sydney, with the object of compelling the Government and the Naval Board to rectify certain alleged grievances on the part of the men. Not only was that statement published, but also special steps were taken to circulate it among the men on board the vessels at Port Melbourne. A prosecution  was  laid under section 25 of the act. As I was Minister for Defence at the time, I know all the circumstances. The defence did not deny the publication of the statement or that steps hadbeen taken to circulate it with the object of causing a mutiny, but relied wholly on the statement that the publisher did not know what had been published, and that therefore he did not "knowingly" attempt to seduce anyperson serving in the King's Force from his duty and allegiance, or to incite any such person to commit an act of mutiny. That defence was successful. Because of that experience, and because since that time other attempts of a similar nature have been made to seduce men serving in the Royal Australian Navy, this clause has been framed as it now stands. Had the law read as this bill reads, " Any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster, ornewspaper containing any matter of such a nature as to,  or  as to be likely to " do certain things, no judge would have had any hesitation in saying that the publication was of such a nature as to be likely to cause disaffection. More recently a similar case occurred in Western Australia, but there also it would have been most difficult to show that the publisher knew what had appeared over his name. There was also the instance mentioned by  Senator Payne  in which bundles of typewritten matter, published by the Friends of the Soviet Union, were circulated on ships belonging to the Royal Australian Navy when at Burnie, Tasmania. In each of these instances the Government was advised by the Crown Law authorities that a conviction under section 25 of the principal act was unlikely, notwithstanding that witnesses were prepared to swear to what had taken place. Because of these experiences, the Government now seeks to amend the law in order that this country may be protected against attacks from within. All honorable senators who wish to protect our naval, military and air forces against attempts to sap their loyalty should vote for the clause. 
 The explanation of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  does not touch the question raised by the Opposition. Section 25 of the existing act begins " Any person who knowingly attempts"- 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - The proposal now is to substitute for section 25 a new section which begins " Any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster, or newspaper containing any matter of such a nature as to, or as to be likely to . . . " The Opposition objects to the words " or as to be likely to" because it places too great a power in the hands of the Government. 
 I appreciate the point made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  because I remember the circumstances surrounding the case to which he referred. I agree that the word "knowingly"provided a cover behind which an unscrupulous person could hide, and therefore the omission of that word has my approval. I would like, however, to have the Minister's assurance that in regard to the words "or as to be likely to " an accused person will receive the benefit of the doubt, as is usual in court proceedings. 
 Speaking as a lawyer who has had a good deal of  experience in the courts, I assure  Senator Dein  that if a charge were laid under this provision and the words " or as to be likely to " were not included, it would be necessary to produce in the court some person who had actually' been seduced from his allegiance, otherwise the prosecution would probably fail. The words to which exception is taken by the Opposition are not new in criminal law. In his summing up a judge would probably ask the jury to consider whether matter published in a book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster, or newspaper would, in its opinion, be likely to seduce any person serving in the King's Forces from his duty and allegiance, or incite to any traitorous or mutinous act, and to bring in a verdict accordingly. 
One cannot deal with the penalty without dealing also with the act to which it applies. From what the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has told us, I am convinced that an amendment of the law in the manner now proposed is desirable. The only point on which I am at all in agreement with  Senator Collings  is in connexion with his criticism of the principal act, which contains the words, "Any person who knowingly attempts ". If a person does not do an action knowingly, he does not attempt it. One cannot attempt a thing unless one has the intention. There are two phases of this proposed new sub-section : First, " of such a nature as to ", and secondly " as to be likely to ". The first stage is the effect actually produced - the act of mutiny. But it may easily be, and is much more likely to be, that there is an intention to produce the effect; in other words that the effect is likely to follow certain actions or utterances. When a seditious document has been distributed is the Government to defer action against the publisher until it can prove that the document has had the effect that it is calculated and intended to cause? In my opinion, that would be ridiculous. Weeks or even months might elapse before the proceedings could be completed, and all the while these documents calculated and intended and likely to produce a certain effect would be in circulation. If in the opinion of the court, the publication is of this seditious nature, action should be permissible even before there is a definite result. The Opposition may object that this is making an offence of the intention rather than the effect of an action. Section 25 (1) refers to a person who " knowingly attempts ", and does not contemplate only the result. Therefore the law already provides that a person who attempts to commit such acts shall be punishable, whether the effect is produced or not. The same principle is being applied in the proposed new sub-section. 
I have taken the two stages. The words " of such a nature as to seduce " relate to the thing that has actually happened ; the words " as to be likely to " relate to the probability of it happening in the future. 
Progress reported. 
In reading a Parliamentary report during the week-end I was surprised to see some remarks by my colleague,  Senator Allan  MacDonald, concerning the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia which I cannot permit to pass unchallenged. The remarks were made by the honorable senator on the 24th ultimo, on the motion for the adjournment of the House, but  Ilansard  was not issued until the 2nd November and I was not in the chamber when this reference to the Primary Producers Association was made. In referring to the proposal of the Government to disband the Australian Dairy Council the honorable senator reflected rather severely on the status of the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia. 
I consider that the honorable senator's remarks were severe, although, no doubt, he has that friendly feeling for the organization which it has for him. The Primary Producers Association is a body which represents the organized producers of Western Australia and in my opinion is the one body which is entirely qualified to speak for the dairy producers of that State.  Senator Allan  MacDonald, on page 1060 of  Hansard  is reported to have said; - 
The Primary Producers Association of Western Australia is recognized as a political body being, in fact, the organization of the Country party. I point out that the southwest portion of the State is the main sphere of the dairying industry of Western Australia. To indicate the strength, or lack of strength, of that association in the dairying industry asan organisation of the Country party, I point out that the south-west portionof the State, which is the main sphere of the dairying industry in Western Australia, consists ofsix electorates for the Legislative Assembly and one province for the Legislative Council, yet noneof these seats is held by the Country party. Three of the seats in the Assembly are held by Nationalists and three bymembers of the Labour party, whilst all three seats in the Council are held by Nationalists. After  Senator Hardy  had read a lettergram from the Primary Producers Association,I interjected that that organisation did not represent the dairying industry in Western Australia, and that anybody could have sent such a message. 
That statement, that the Primary Producers' Association docs not represent the dairying industry of Western Australia shows a complete lack of knowledge of the real status of that association as a producers' industrial organization representing the main rural and primary industries of that State. The association is an incorporate body divided into four sections, only one of which is political. There arc a great many industrial members of the association, bona fide producers, who do not belong to the political side of the movement. The purely producers' side of the association is' divided into three sections, namely, wheat, sheep and wool, and dairying, each with its separate executive. 
On that point I am at variance with the honorable senator. The Primary Producers Association, through its dairying section represents the dairy producers completely. In the dairying districts of the State a great many of the members of the dairying section of the association do not belong to the political branch, and the  president  of the dairying; section is Mr.Ross McLarty, M.L.A., one of tho three Nationalist members of parliamentto whom  Senator Allan  MacDonald referred. The fact that the Country party does not hold some southwestern seats is largely because of the strength of the coal-miners, timberworkers and town residents of the southwest, and also because of the efficient and popular sitting Nationalist members who represent that portion of the State, one of whom,  Mr. McLarty,  is the very head, tho  president  of the dairying section of the Primary Producers Association. Another first-class parliamentarian is the Honorable L. Craig, M.L.C., who was a Country party candidate for the Bunbury seat, at the 1927 election. 
 Mr. Craig  received the support of the Primary Producers Association organization in his district, and the  West Australian  of the 23rd March, 1927, reports his address as that of a Country party candidate for Bunbury. In any case his sympathies are with the producers. On various occasions, when they have supported Country party candidates the dairymen and other producers have been outvoted by opposing interests in those districts. The honorable senator did not refer to the strength of the dairying industry in the great southern districts where there are a number of uptodate butter factories, one. at Narrogin, two at Katanning, and another at Denmark. In that part of the State, with the exception of the Port of Albany, which returned a Labour member, the whole of the political representation in the Parliament of Western Australia lies with the Country party, the political side of the Primary Producers Association. The dairying industry is constantly growing in those districts, where five out of six of the Legislative Assembly seats and the three upper house seats are held by tho Country party. I emphasize that there is no other body in Western Australia so qualified to speak for the dairy producers as is the dairying section of the Primary Producers Association. I hope that the Government will at all times accept the views of that body as being the voice of the organized dairy producers of Western Australia.The views of the Primary Producers Association have been conveyed to the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  in the following terms by Mr.H. J. Prater, the general secretary: - 
It has been reported here that representatives from this State, who do not speak from the producers' point of view, are opposed to your suggestion for the co-ordination of the activities of the Australian Dairy Produce Export Board and the Australian Dairy Council. Our organization is the only one which can claim to be representative of the producers' sideof the dairying industry, and it definitely supports your proposal under which representation on the board would be on a more equitable basis. We trust that, notwithstanding objections raised by other interests, you will proceed with the suggested legislation. 
I endorse  Mr. Prater's  statement in its entirety as being the views of the organized dairymen of Western Australia and ask the Government to accept it as such. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
On the 31st October,  Senator Arkins  asked the Postmaster-General the following questions, upon  notice: - 
Is it a fact that the Public Service Act was amended in 1934 to allow the Government to be in a position to permanently employ those returned soldiers who bad qualified by examination for positions as mechanics, &amp;c, but who could not pass the necessary medical tests owing to disabilities caused by war? 
If so, will the Minister state whether any of the men affected by this legislation have been accepted as permanent public servants since the amending of the act? 
Were there any telephone mechanics among those accepted, and if so, how many? 
In view of the ministerial statement as recorded in  Hansard  on 20th September, 1935, regarding the poor outlook for the recruiting of mechanics and postmen from outside the Service, will he indicate whether it is still the intention of the Government to engage the returned soldier mechanics affected as above, and when? 
I am now in a position to furnish the honorable senator with the following reply to his inquiries : - 
Yes.. 
Thirteen have been appointed. 
The staffing situation generally is such as to preclude immediate consideration of any appointments from outside the Service to positions of mechanic and no indication can he given when it will be possible to give favorable consideration to applications. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the PostmasterGeneral's Department to build a telephone exchange at the corner of Stanley and Elizabeth streets,Nedlands, Western Australia? 
Is this site within a strictly residential area, under the Town Planning Act of Western Australia ? 
Has the Nedlands Roads Board objected to the proposed contravention of the town planning regulations in this matter? 
Ifso, will the Postmaster-General's Department conform to the said regulation. 
If not, why not? 
Yes. 
Yes. 
TheNedlandsRoad Board represented that the building should be in the business portion of the Nedlands area, but alternatively asked that the front of the building should be in keeping with the houses around. 4 and5. The objection raised was based on a misconception of the department's intention. A telephone exchange, for technical and economic reasons, must be in the telephonic centre of the area to be served, but the class of building erected for telephone purposes  in  residential areas conforms with the type of building inthe neighbourhood and is no detriment to surrounding property. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,upon  notice - 
How many wireless sets have beenseized by officers of the Postmaster-General's Department (or others) for non-payment of wireless licence-fees ? 
How many of such sets have been kept by the department, and how many returned to the owners? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
Since the inception of broadcasting in 1923, 29 wireless receivers have been seized from unlicensed listeners. 
Seven have been retained by the department and 22 returned to the owners. 
Can the Loader of the Senate say if there is any truth in the rumour that the Government proposes to ask  Mr. William  Morris Hughes to rejoin the Cabinet? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Hare any communications been received by the Australian Government from the Italian Government concerning the application of "sanctions" against Italy? 
If so, will the Government lay copy or copies of such communications on the table of the Senate? 
No. 
See answer to 1. 
[11.13].- I move- 
That the bill be now reada second time. 
The bill is to enable the Commonwealth Government, as an original member of the League of Nations, to fulfil the obligations undertaken by it in terms of article XVI. of the Covenant of the League, and is in accordance with the Government's declared policy of maintaining the principles of the League. No more clear-cut issue has ever been presented to this Parliament or the people of Australia. This bill represents the contribution of Australia towards the collective action of 50 nations, who have solemnly renounced war as an instrument of national policy, and, in addition, have agreed to combine in order to restrain aggression on the part of a powerful nation in the furtherance of a declared policy of colonial expansion at the expense of a weak and defenceless League member. 
Whatever the views of honorable senators may be as to the consequences or the probable effectiveness of the action now being taken, I feel that we all can start from the one firm opinion, that the oversetting by force of international obligations or the unresisted aggression by great powers against small and weak States, can never be in the true interests of lasting peace, and can only endanger the security of every nation. 
With the full knowledge of all the circumstances and facts relating to the dis pute, and of the unremitting efforts made both inside and outside the framework of the League to settle it by peaceful means, with complete documentary evidence, and after both parties had presented their cases, the Council found unanimously, on the 7th October, that Italy had violated its solemn undertaking under article XII. in resorting to war within three months of the report of the Council of the League upon the dispute. It is of interest to note the thirteen members of the Council which reached this opinion. They are Great Britain, France, Russia, Argentina, Australia, Chile, Denmark, Ecuador, Poland, Portugal,Roumania, Spain, and Turkey. 
I refer honorable senators to the unequivocal language of article XVI. which commences with the words " Should any State resort to war ". Who is to decide whether a State has committed an act of war? The article docs not assist, and. consequently, at the meetings of the Assembly in 1921 and 1924, various rules and interpretative decisions were adopted to enable the article tobe operated in a practical manner if ever the need arose, without overriding the sovereignty of individual State members, and ensuring that action was simultaneous and truly collective, and not individual and arbitrary. In this respect, the League recognized that there was just as great a danger in a powerful State deciding by itself that there had been a breach of the Covenant and taking individual action against an alleged offender, as in a ease of unprovoked aggression. 
In accordance with the procedure of the League, the report of the Council on the dispute, the opinion that Italy was an aggressor, and the minutes of the meeting relating to this decision, were referred to all State members on the 9th October at the General Assembly meeting of 1935. which had been adjourned from September. The  President  explained the circumstances in which the matter came before the Assembly, and stated that members were thus afforded the opportunity to define their attitude. What was involved was not a vote of the Assembly but the acquiescence of each member individually. He therefore called on those who were opposed to the opinion expressed by the Council, or wished to abstain, to state their position, and said that he- would interpret the silence of all other delegations to indicate that their governments concurred in the opinion already expressed by the Council. This was the most vital moment in the history of the League, for the degree of solidarity and support for the principles of the Covenant would indicate whether individual members had the loyalty and determination to make the League a living and effective reality in the interests of humanity and world peace, or whether it was impotent in the face of a crisis which threatened the overthrow of the whole system of collective security so laboriously built up during the last fifteen years. The response was an overwhelming support of the Covenant and concurrence in the opinion of the Council, as only three States - Austria, Hungary and Albania - out of 54 represented at the Assembly, said they were not able to associate themselves with the conclusions reached by other members of the League. Even they did not, and could not, maintain that Italy had not committed a breach of the Covenant, but said that on account of their alliances, close political connexion, and economic interdependence with Italy, any participation in the measures under article 16 would place them in a particularly difficult and delicate position, and threaten their national existence. I refer honorable senators to the report of these proceedings of the Assembly on the 9th and 10th October, which I have had placed on the table of the Library, and particularly to those portions giving the observations of the delegates of the small and weak 'States, whose relief that the principles of the Covenant had been vindicated was most evident. I also emphasize the fact that the lead was given to .all the members by the momentous words of the British Foreign Secretary of State,  Sir Samuel  Hoare, before the Assembly on the 11th September - 
In conformity with its precise and explicit obligations the League stands, and my country stands with it, for the collective maintenance of the Covenant in its .entirety, and particularly for the steady and collective, resistance to all  acts  of aggression. - had been endorsed by the resolve of the member States to honour their obligation. Australia stands firmly for the maintenance of this attitude, for on it depends the only hope of setting world peace on an enduring foundation. 
The League has two main tasks - first, to avert war by the just and peaceful settlement of disputes, and, secondly, if this fails, to prevent its extension and scop it in the shortest possible time. It is now engaged on the second objective, and it is in furtherance of this that the Assembly set up the Co-ordination Committee consisting of all the members of the League except the parties to the dispute, to co-ordinate the measures that States might contemplate in discharge of their obligations under article 16 of the Covenant. The Sanctions Co-ordination Committee is not an instrument of the Council or of the Assembly, but is, in substance, a conference of League members to assist them in carrying out their obligations under article 16. Its decisions are, in a sense, recommendations to governments, and therefore the rules as to unanimity do not apply. This Committee has adopted five proposals for consideration by the governments of State members. I shall deal with them later on, but at the moment I emphasize that not only has the Commonwealth Government. along with His Majesty's Governments in the United Kingdom and all the other dominions, accepted these proposals, but also the whole strength of the League is now behind them. Over 50 States have signified their adherence, and this constitutes the most effective answer to any criticism that has been raised that League collective action was not likely to be effective, as few nations would participate. This criticism went further, and held that, owing to certain powerful nations being outside the League, the action of- State members inenforcing sanctions against Italy would not only be innocuous, but also so dangerous as to lead to a general conflagration. 
Let us examine the position of the main powers outside the League - the United States of America, Japan, and Germany. The United States is determined *o avoid the entanglements of another European conflict, and has declared in favour of a policy of strict neutrality in the present dispute. That declaration it implemented by the recent Neutrality Act. At the same time, the United States, as the sponsor of the Kellogg Pact for the renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy, has affirmed its responsibility before the world for the promotion of peace and the support of international morality.  President  Roosevelt made the statement on the Neutrality Act that it was also the policy of the United States Government to co-operate with other nations to promote peace. Clear indications have been given that the sympathy of the United States is on the side of the League in its efforts to restrain an aggressor, and I quote from a letter which was sent on the 26th October by the Secretary of State of the United States to the  President  of the Co-ordination Committee : - 
Realizing that war adversely affects every country, that it may seriously endanger the economic welfare of each and cause untold human misery and even threatens the existence of civilization, the United States, in keeping with the letter and spirit of the Pact of Paris and other peace obligations, undertakes at all times not only to exercise its  moral  influence in favour of peace throughout the world, but to contribute in every possible way within the limitations of our foreign policy to that end. It views with sympathetic interest the individual or concerted efforts of other nations to preserve peace or to localize and shorten the duration of war. 
Without departing from the principle of neutrality, there could be no clearer indication than is contained in those last words as to where the sympathies of the United States are in this dispute. Moreover, the Neutrality Act, by its very nature, operates one-sidedly and wholly against Italy, as it prohibits the export or transportation of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to belligerent countries, and restricts travel by American citizens on belligerent ships during war. Herr Hitler has declared that Germany has no intention of interfering in the present dispute. The foreign policies of Germany and Italy in regard to the future of Austria are so divergent that it cannot be conceived that Germany would pursue any policy which would strengthen or tend to aid Italy. Germany has given no indication that it is prepared to upset the equilibrium of Europe at the present juncture, or jeopardize the friendly relationship established with Great Britain. Japan has a large and increasing export market in Abyssinia, and should this country lose its independence and become the colonial territory of a European power, this market would be largely lost to Japan. Its spokesmen have declared that the policy of Japan is to preserve the stability of Asia, and to champion the coloured races against acts of Western aggression. Clearly then, not only the sympathy, but also the interest of Japan lie in the maintenance of the territorial integrity and independence of Abyssinia, and the policy of Japan would not be such as to jeopardize or nullify the action of League members to restrain Italy. We have then a display of collective solidarity and determination within the League, and a general world sympathy outside it which encourages every effort to make an end to the risks and horrors of war. 
It is of little value now to recall past history and raise doubts as to the efficacy of League methods. We still hear criticisms in connexion with the Gran Chaco and Manchurian disputes. As to the former, I remind honorable senators that that dispute had persisted for half a century. Each of the belligerents, Bolivia and Paraguay, was convinced that its own cause was right and just; both were actuated by a deepseated national resentment, and both were determined to fight. No League orany other human organization could have prevented such a conflict, but it was largely due to the intervention of the League that hostilities were terminated, and. arrangements made for a stable and lasting  peace.  This fact also is worth noting: Both these countries came out whole-heartedly in support of the League in the present dispute, and the following words of the Bolivian delegate at the League meeting on the 11th October are of particular significance to all countries far from Geneva, for they received general endorsement : - 
The principle of universality of the League ot Nations will emerge fully consolidated, and that kind of indifference which certain European countries have shown towards overseas problems which do not immediately affect their own interests will be destroyed. 
Blame was also attributed to the League on account of the actions of Japan in Manchuria. I do not propose to debate that subject or justify the action of Japan, except to say that Japan had special interests and territory there by virtue of treaty rights which it claimed were being violated by China. Japan claimed that Manchuria was never an integral part of China, and that its action was purely in defence of vital national interests. Be that as it may, the report condemning the action taken by Japan was adopted unanimously, and the moral censure therein conveyed has been implemented by the refusal of all the members of the League to recognize the independence of Manchukuo. This non-recognition still obtains. No one will deny that the League has had failures; but it has also had many striking successes. I need only mention the efficacy of League methods in the recent dispute between Yugoslavia and Hungary over the assassination of King Alexander at Marseilles; the arrangements for the Saar plebiscite and the transfer of the Saar to Germany; and the 47 judgments and opinions of the Permanent Court of International Justice, which have disposed of various international disputes. These are in addition to social and humanitarian activities in which the League is engaged. All these highly important and essential activities require some authoritative central machinery to ensure the smooth and effective co-operation of the nations of the world, and I can conceive of no organization other than the League capable of carrying out matters so essential to the maintenance of international peace and goodwill. 
I turn now to the contents of the bill, which implements Proposals II., III. and IV. of the Co-ordination Committee. Proposal I. which relates to the prohibition of arms and munitions of war to Italy, has already been put into operation by State Members. The Commonwealth Government accepted this proposal, and put it into effect by virtue of its power under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations of 1935. 
Proposal II. relates to financial sanctions. The measures to give effect to it are set out in clause 4. The intention of the clause is to prohibit the payment of money destined for Italy or Italian interests, except by licence granted by the authorized officer under the act. Honorable senators will note that no action will be taken to prohibit payments for humanitarian or religious purposes. 
Proposal III. relates to the prohibition of imports from Italy or Italian colonies. In my opinion, this will be the most effective of all the sanctions, as it will not only rapidly deprive Italy of financial resources abroad, but it will also cause loss of markets which are likely to prove permanent in these days of intensive competition for markets. Moreover, Italy cannot well dump surplus products in the countries of non-participating States, as they have a limited absorptive capacity, and their own nationals and vested interests will demand protection. 
Proposal IV. relates to the prohibition of the export to Italy of certain raw materials, such as rubber, metals of all description, and other items regarded as munitions of war. This proposal is regarded as an extension of Proposal I. 
Proposals III. and IV. are implemented by clause 6 of the bill, which prohibits the importation or exportation of any goods specified in the regulations. 
Proposal V. does not come within the ambit of this bill. Certain members of the League, by virtue either of their exceptional situation as close neighbours of Italy, or of the distinctive character of their trade relations with Italy, are likely to suffer undue loss and embarrassment. Paragraph 3 of article 16 relates to mutual assistance, and Proposal V. is designed to alleviate the position of such States. It is important to note that by resolution 9 of 1921, where it can be done without prejudicing" the effective application of the economic sanctions, certain States may receive permission to postpone action in special cases, such as losses or embarrassments. This is in accordance with the underlying principle that, as the action must be collective, the responsibility must be a joint one, and the burden shared by all. 
Last night the following communication was received from the League: - 
Proposal IVa. 
In the execution of the mission entrusted to it under the last paragraph of Proposal IV. the Committee of Eighteen submits to governments the following proposal. 
It is expedient that the measures of embargo provided for in Proposal IV. should be extended to the following articles as soon as the conditions necessary to render this extension effective have been realized: - 
Petroleum and its derivatives, by-products and residues. 
Pig iron, iron and steel (including alloy steels), cast, forged, rolled, drawn, stamped or pressed. 
Coal (including anthracite and lignite), coke and their agglomerates, as well as fuels derived therefrom. 
If the replies received by the committee to the present proposal and the information at its disposal warrant it, the Committee of Eighteen will propose to governments a date for bringing into force the measures mentioned above. 
When these proposals have been adopted by the Government they can be brought into force by regulations under this legislation. 
These sanctions represent nothing more than organized pressure or persuasion to induce Italy to return to the path of peace, and to its allegiance to the Covenant. It has been reiterated again and again that this is not an individual dispute between Italy and any particular State, but a dispute between Italy and all the members of the League, including Australia. Further, the United Kingdom Government has announced that there is no intention to impose military sanctions, as it is only intended to impose such sanctions as arc acceptable, practicable and likely to be effective. Moreover, the whole intention of article 16 lies on the side of economic, and not military sanctions. The Council, Coordination Committee, or any other instrumentality of the League, cannot commit any member to a policy of military sanctions; the most that the Council can do, and then only in the most extreme ease, which is not contemplated in this dispute, is to make a recommendation to State Members. 
What risk there is of war, and let us frankly state it, is for Italy to be so foolish as to attack one of the 50 members of the League imposing sanctions, in which event all the others are pledged to give mutual support and assistance. Now that Great Britain and France have reached whole-hearted agreement on this point, and particularly in regard to naval co-operation, it is beyond the bounds of reason that Italy would jeopardize its very existence as a nation by so desperate a gamble. Does the Labour party in Australia justify its policy of nonparticipation and non-co-operation and is it prepared to repudiate everything Labour has stood for in the field of international affairs, because of a fear of this risk? Its action has caused wide amazement, for in no other country in the world has Labour repudiated its obligations for the maintenance of the collective system and the enforcement of economic sanctions against a declared aggressor. In this respect Communists, Socialists and Labour nationalists of various kinds are united on common ground. 
Let me refer honorable senators to the resolution of the Trade Union Congress at Margate, England, in September last, which was passed by the immense majority of 2,785,000 - reputed to be the largest majority on a Labour resolution in England- the voting being 2,962,000 votes to 177,000- 
The declaration averred that an Italian war of conquest in Abyssinia would be a violation of the sanctity of international treaties and that such violation of treaties was destructive of the foundations of civilization. The resolution called upon the British Government, in co-operation with other nations in the League, to use all measures provided by the Covenant to prevent Italy's "unjust and rapacious attack upon the territory of a fellow member of the League". It pledged the firm support of the Congress " to any action consistent with the treaties and statutes of the League " to restrain Italy and uphold the authority of the League in enforcing peace. 
One of the foremost Labour writers in England,  Mr. Herbert  Morrison, in an article which appeared in the September issue of  Forward,  declared that, " if the Labour party were in power, they could not evade the issues without bringing discredit on themselves." He continued - 
We have made so many declarations for the League, for the collective peace system, for the restraint of the aggressor who will not go to arbitration. If we funk the practical issue we shall lead public opinion to feel that we are mere talkers who fear to implement our talk: that we have been engaged in political humbug; that we are men whose hands tremble when the hour to act arrives (hardly the kind of people to transform capitalism into Socialism). 
I desire also to refer to the historic occasion in the New Zealand Parliament on the 23rd October last, when the Sanctions Bill was passed unanimously by  both Houses. The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr. Savage,  in outlining the policy of Labour said - 
Let mc say right away that Labour's passion for peace makes it necessary for us to support the collective action of the League of Nations. The best way to uphold the principles of universal peace is for the nations of the world to combine in stopping supplies to the aggressor. 
Let us suppose that other nations accepted the policy of non-participation in the present crisis. What could be the consequences of such a policy? They are self-evident. Italy would achieve its object without hindrance. The inaction of the League would bo an incitement to powerful nations to embark on a policy of expansion at the expense of small States. It would lead to the enthronement of the doctrine that might is right; an era of perpetual fear would bc ushered in, causing the world to sink into international anarchy. Nations would be faced with the necessity to maintain a crushing burden of armaments, and the inevitable result would be war on a large scale. And another world war at the present time would mean the end of western civilization. That may seem a gloomy picture; hut what possible alternative would there be if the policy referred to were generally adopted ? 
The Government is firmly convinced that the only true path to peace lies along the lines of honouring obligations, justice to all nations, and a determination to maintain the authority of the League in international affairs. The Government is convinced that in this policy it has the support of an overwhelming body of public opinion throughout Australia. 
It is widely recognized that we have come to a turning point in the history of the world. The League has given a real incentive and stimulus to peace, both by its solidarity and by its determination to make a supreme effort to put an end to the scourge of the world. We believe that the adoption of the principle of collective security, with action for its enforcement from the 38th November by 50 nations, and, so far as Australia is concerned, by enforcement along the lines proposed in this bill, constitutes the only hope for peace and security and the future well-being and happiness, not only of British peoples, but also of all mankind. -Therefore, I commend the bill to honorable senators. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has sought to clarify the Government's policy in regard to sanctions. He has the advantage of the fact that since the Government declared its intentions in this connexion, the bill has been debated in the House of Representatives and he has been able to make a general survey of the situation, and ascertain the attitude of the Australian Labour party. I assure him that, in spite of the points that he emphasized in his speech, and of the light-hearted manner in which he looked round to secure the smiling approval of his associates, when he believed that he had scored, he did not deceive the Opposition. We knew exactly what he intended to say, because his speech contained statements of the kind that every leader of every government on the brink of war makes to the people and the Parliament to deceive them, into being parties to the machinations of those who prefer war abroad rather than to meet trouble at home. I hope that the Leader of the Senate was not surprised or displeased, because Ave took exception this morning to his motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. I assure him that, so far from assisting in the passage of this bill, we shall do everything permitted by the Standing Orders to prevent it from becoming law. While we realize our inability finally to prevent the measure from being passed by the Senate, we shall have the satisfaction of knowing that we have done our duty, just as, I believe, the Leader of the Senate considers that he has done his duty this morning. In the decision to support the League in the application of sanctions against Italy, the Parliament has not been consulted. Discussions took place behind closed doors, and afterwards, the Australian delegate at Geneva  (Mr. Bruce)  was instructed in the course that he should take. I repeat, the sanctions have been agreed upon without the elected representatives of this democracy having been consulted. Finally this morning this bill  is brought before the Senate by the Government which knows perfectly well that it has the numbers to enable it to proceed with, and give effect to, its proposals. 
That does not take from us,, as an Opposition, the right to oppose the measure. The Leader of the Senate commenced his speech with a statement that the issue is clear-cut. He is aware that it is not clear-cut, and that in the House of Representatives members of the party to which be belongs are divided in their opinion on this matter. It is useless for him to say that it is not our concern to inquire whither the sanctions may lead. That is just what wo are concerned with. Does the Government regard us as such blind fools, that it expects us to agree to something this morning without taking cognizance of where it may lead us to-morrow morning ? When  Senator Pearce  says that the issue is clear-cut, I contradict him; and the difference of opinion among government supporters proves that I am correct. The very fact that certain States have refused to introduce similar legislation on the ground that their national existence would be threatened shows that members of the League have the right to decline to participate in the application of sanctions. Therefore, the Leader of the Senate cannot deny to this Parliament the right to refuse, if it pleases, to have anything to do with the sanctions. But, as I have said, he has the numbers to ensure the passage of the measure. The Leader of the Senate tried to persuade honorable senators to accept the measure, knowing full well that so far as the Labour party is concerned persuasion is futile, and so far as his own supporters are concerned, it is unnecessary. He urged that the highest altruistic motives should receive consideration, and he made a fervent appeal for resistance to all acts of aggression. Yet he knows that there never was a time in the history of the world when all nations were arming for war so feverishly as they are to-day. What does the honorable senator mean by "resistance to all acts of aggression?" Every great power is now feverishly arming,  the manufacturers of arma ments are working overtime, and the Government proposes that to the small extent to which Australia is involved in this dispute, we, too, shall work overtime to prepare for the next war. All nations instead of resisting acts of aggression, are anxious to deliver the first blow, so that their act of aggression shall be the most successful. According to the Leader of the Senate, the whole strength of the League is behind the policy of sanctions; yet Italy is marching on, and is accomplishing its object; the wholesale murder of Abyssinian women and children is taking place by the use of poison gas and other horrors of war. When the Leader of the Senate asks us to accept his pious assurances, does he think that we have forgotten our experience and our knowledge of the history of the world, ancient and modern? If the League were an effective instrument to restrain Italy's aggression, it should have been in operation many months ago. The Leader of the Government concluded his speech with a pathetic appeal to the Labour party to remember that, by reason of its attitude on this matter, it is isolated. I arn one who believes that we can never go wrong by doing right, and that it is better to stand alone in doing what one believes to be right than to be in company with a whole army of people doing what one knows to be wrong. The Leader of the Senate quoted the opinion of  Mr. Morrison,  one of the leaders of the British Labour party, that Labour could not evade this issue.  His  admiration for the writer and for the decision which the British Labour party reached was obvious. But he did not tell this chamber that the gentlemen who constitute the British Government - exactly the same type of government as that of which  Senator Pearce  is so distinguished a member - is not giving the Labour party any credit for its attitude. Instead, it lias sprung the elections in Great Britain in order to make the same old fervent patriotic appeal to the people, who have had no chance of learning the true facts. Its action is dictated by political considerations, in order that Labour may be " dished " at the polls. The Leader of the Senate asks us to believe that he -is proud of  Mr. Morrison,  and of the declarations made by the British Labour conference at Margate, while his prototype in the United Kingdom,  Mr. Stanley  Baldwin, is doing everything in his power to encompass the defeat of the Labour party, in spite of its declaration of support for the League. 
The defence policy of the Australian Labour party is definitely set out in its printed platform. 
There is nothing mysterious about it. It is printed and circulated all over Australia in season and out of season, and is available at any time to anybody who desires to obtain a copy. Labour's defence policy may be summarized as - 
Adequate home defence against possible foreign aggression. 
No raising of forces for service outside of the Commonwealth or participation or promise of participation in any future overseas war except by the decision of the people. 
There is nothing mysterious about that policy, and the Opposition abides by it. We also have a policy regarding the present Abyssinian crisis. It was agreed to unanimously by the caucus of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party, and I communicated it to the Senate on a previous occasion. I repeat now the concluding paragraph of that declaration - 
The attitude of the Australian Labour party is clear and unequivocal. It wants no war on foreign fields foreconomic treasure. It wants Australia to be kept free of entanglements loading to a repetition of the horrors of1914-18. Therefore, the Australian Labour party, for whichI speak to-day says nonparticipation. 
I desire to quote an extract from the  Courier-Mail,  a very respectable journal published in Brisbane. It is neither communistic nor pro-Labour in its sympathies, but is the principal organ in Queensland supporting the present Commonwealth Government. In regard to sanctions it says - 
The Federal Government has notified the High Commissioner that Australia is wholeheartedly behind Britain in her efforts to maintain peace between Italy and Abyssinia. "Well, that is all right. " Weare wholeheartedly in favour of peace. But we hope that when  Mr. Bruce  goes to Geneva next week he will listen hard and speak very softly indeed. Or, preferably, not speak atall. 
This war thatis looming in Africa is no business of ours. We may have our opinions about it, but it will be well to keep them to ourselves. We have just about as much as we can do to hold on to this unpopulated country in a land-hungry world. We cannot afford the luxury of making enemies anywhere. 
It is the expressed opinion of the  Courier-Mail.  The Labour party says definitely and unequivocally that, when the mad dogs of Europe are barking " Empire," there is no occasion for Australia to enter the kennel. Our duty is to stay out of foreign wars at all times, and in any circumstance. We' have found one participation too much. The Australian Labour party is opposed to sanctions, because it is opposed to war. The Labour party saw more immediately and more clearly than any other party that sanctions mean war. We declare that sanctions mean war; they must inevitably do so if they are to be of any value, or mean anything more than mere subterfuge, childish in the extreme and conspicuously dishonest. In this view we are supported by a great number of authorities on international law, some of whom I intend to quote. 
In the  London Times  of December, 1927,  Mr. Baldwin  quoted article16 which the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  dealt with at such length in the House of Representatives when moving the second reading of the bill, and referred particularly to the contribution, by members of the League, of military and other forces to protect its covenants " How ", he asked, " can we honour this undertaking without armed forces?" "Clearly we could not do so", was his answer to his own question. That statement was a definite admission of the obligation, in certain circumstances, to take military action if article 16 is to operate. Nevertheless, the Leader of the Senate would have us ignore what may be involved by the imposition of sanctions ! What sanctions really mean can be judged from the published opinions of many competent authorities.  Mr. Baldwin,  speaking in the House of Commons on the 7th February, 1934, said - 
An economic sanction is very difficult to bring into effect without blockade. Blockade is an act of war, and every country which you blockade, unless it is absolutely impotent, will fight against it. 
Yet. it is suggested that honorable senators on this side must not distinguish between' cause and  effect.  Sir John  latham, the new Chief Justice, is reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 22nd October, as having said - 
The prohibition of economic ami other  intercourse  must involve, iu many cases if it is to be effective, the establishment of a blockade. Accordingly it' must be realized that when it is proposal that tha provisions of article Ki should be put into operation, the decision which a government has to take is just the same decision as it Iia.) to take when the question ii one of a declaration of war.  The  responsibility is thu same in oau case as in thu other. 
Honorable senators are this morning being asked to acquiesce in a policy which virtually means a declaration of war. If. with a knowledge of what the last war meant to Australia in the sacrifice of its manhood, government supporters are willing to plunge this country into another bloody holocaust, then all I can say is that the responsibility will rest upon t.hem. Our hands, at least, will be clean.  Sir Stafford  Cripps is reported in the  Labor Daily  of the 23rd October, as having said - [I. is useless to imagine that economic sanctions may not also entail military sanctions, ami the latter may - if ever the necessity for their imposition arises - entail a first class  European  war. 
Of courseThat is what I am saying. We, on this side, are afraid of that possibility. We definitely fear what may happen between Australia and Italy if we pass this bill. We do not wish to see Australia's sons sent again to the shambles at the dictation of aged politicians who know they ars perfectly safe because they will not  hi:  called upon !:o fight. The  Christian Science Monitor,  an extract from which appears in the  Labor Daily  of the 26rh October, states - 
Sanctions brood sanctions. Britain a.; League policeman, might begin by barring essential Italian imports from British sources That would moan  barring  the ex;t: of the banned  commodities  from British ports. But italy would bc  able  to obtain thom just the same.  In  such circumstances, sanctions would lead by stages to a direct blockade. The policeman would have to leave his own ports for the Italian ports in order to see that the pressure worked. 

 Mr. Baldwin is thus reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 26th October - 
The most severe sanctions would lead inevitably to a  blockade  which would affect  nonmembers  of the League. 
In the House of Commons on the 22nd October, 1935, the Foreign Secretary,  Sir Samuel  Hoare, speaking with regard to military sanctions, said that the necessary preconditions of collective agreement had never existed, and that they had not been discussed at Geneva. Therefore - I call attention to these words - they formed no part of British policy. Two weeks later in an editorial the  Sydney Morning Herald  questioned that the " effectiveness" of the sanctions could be deemed satisfactory. It stated that Viscount Cecil and others in England were despairing of the effectiveness of half-measures and believed that if Mussolini should persist in his challenge to the League there waa no alternative but for Britain to press Geneva to impose military sanctions in the near future. 
Despite all the information that is available to him as to the real meaning of sanctions.  Senator Dein  has had it " put all over him " this morning by the Leader of the Senate, who has endeavoured to persuade us that sanctions do not, mean war. Evidently,  Senator Dein  comforts himself with the thought that they "may" lead to war. Lora Robert Cecil, one of the League's most fervent supporters, explaining article 16, said- 
In addition to the blockade, which is an automatic obligation of all members of the League, the Council shall consider and shall recommend to the several governments concerned what effective military, naval, or air force members of the League shall severally contribute to the armed forces to be used to protect the Covenant. 
I know all about that. My concern now is that the Government is taking this first step deliberately in the full knowledge that, if it is not effective, military sanctions will be imposed, and that course will inevitably lead to war.  Mr. Baldwin,  referring to the view expressed by Lord Robert Cecil, said, as reported in the 

 Sydney Morning Herald of the 26th October, 1935- 

 I will not agree to Britain entering a : blockade unless I know the attitude of the United States of America. 
I shall have Something to say about the attitude of the United States of America before I resume my seat. If Lord Cecil's contention is correct, then  Mr. Baldwin  intends to flout the League, and Britain will decide for itself whether or not it will carry out its obligations to the League. Professor Charteris, the professor of international law in the University of Sydney, said - 
From economic sanctions to police sanctions, the step is short and it may be very steep. If the step is taken and the covenant-breaker resists, then you are plumped into war - plumped into war, remember at the call of the covenant-breaker. It is, therefore, completely misleading to say that economic sanctions, under article Ki, are not an act of war. If they are not an act of war, they are not due fulfilment of the duties imposed "by article 10. 
Tn other words, Professor Charteris agrees with what I have been saying, namely, that unless economic sanctions are a childish futility, and, therefore, a dishonest attempt to check an aggressor nation,  they  must inevitably lead to war. 

 Mr. R. B. Bennett, a former Prime Minister of Canada, is reported in the  Lalor Daily  of the 28th October, 1935, as having said - 
In world politics Canada should he secure, for she has no ambitions which pence cannot gratify. We will not be embroiled in any foreign quarrel where the rights of Canadians are not involved. 
Yet, according to the Leader of the Senate, Labour members of this chamber ought to be ashamed of themselves if they do not support the policy of this Government. We do not intend to support it, because we believe that it will embroil this country in war. It would seem that the ex-Prime Minister of Canada may without impunity express views for endorsing which we stand condemned in the eyes of the Government and its supporters.  Mr. George  Soule, writing in  The New Republic,  an American publication, stated - 
Economic and technical factors themselves have made the most powerful arms virtually inaccessible to the downtrodden. Far more important, however, is the difficulty of drawing the line around munitions. How arc we to differentiate between the bale of cotton destined for a gingham dress and that which will make a khaki suit or a charge of nitrocellulose? Can we distinguish the bushel of wheat for the army commissariat from that, for the workers' bread? 

 Mr. J. L. Garvin, writing in  The Observer,  London, a conservative journal., said - 
Are we to promote the general war because we cannot stop" the smaller? To enforce thu Covenant would turn' the whole world into a. witches' cauldron. 
The  Round Table,  London, in a recent issue, expressed this opinion - 
Sanctions, economic sanctions, no less than military sanctions, inevitably entail risk of war. To use sanctions is, in effect, to attempt to coerce a sovereign State against its will. Unless the power in the hands of the States bringing sanctions to bear is irresistible, there is likely to be resistance or counter-attack, and that means war. 
General Smuts said - 
If ever the attempt were made to transform the League into a military machine, into a system to carry on war for the purpose of preventing war, I think its fate is sealed. I cannot conceive the dominions remaining in such a League and pledging themselves to fight the wars of the Old World. 
Even more embarrassing to the Government was the strange coincidence that while the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  was vehemently attempting to rebut our contention about the inevitability of war following the imposition of sanctions, there was sitting at his elbow his Cabinet colleague, the then Minister for Health  (Mr. Hughes),  who, with that quaint sense of humour that characterizes him, had simultaneously released for publication his latest book,  Australia and War To-day,  in which he as vehemently declared that sanctions mean war. This is what  Mr. Hughes  says in his book - 
Unless Italy bows to the decision of the League any sanctions imposed by the League can only bc effective to the extent that they are backed by armed force. Assuming that Italy decides to persist in her thrust into Abyssinia, she is not likely to submit tamely to an economic blockade, but will endeavour to break through it. This, of course, means war. 
Despite this formidable array of unassailable opinion from- acknowledged authorities on international law, we are asked to agree to the imposition of economic and financial sanctions against Italy. If we do this, what will be our position with a population of less than 7,000,000 in a vast continent? Should we endorse the Government's policy, thus giving Italy the chance, if it so desires, to declare war upon Australia? Surely no one will deny that a boycott cannot and will not just stop at a boycott. The logical result is war. Let it not be forgotten that in 1926 England and Italy came to an agreement - I hope that  Senator Sampson  is taking note of what I am saying - for the economic cutting up of Abyssinia. Both were well satisfied with the arrangement. 
That treaty of 1926 was not ratified, but it showed clearly how imperialistic nations were prepared to ignore the right of a weak nation to self-development. 
To emphasize the seriousness of the situation, and to show what we may expect, I quote the following cable from the Sydney  Sun  of the 29th October:- 
With sanctions looming large, housewives are planning their purchases to meet the inevitable rise of prices and shortage of commodities, the Rome correspondent of the  Daily Telegraph  states. Merchants are taking stock, and are ordering all possible supplies. Train after train is arriving from Austria and Hungary, laden with cattle, vegetables, flour, maize, and tinned meats. Northern goods stations are full of consignments of German and Polish coal. One train brought 40 truckloads of poultry. Genoa harbour is crowded with American oilships. 
TheMinister who introduced the bill endeavoured to create a wrong impression when he referred to the subject of petroleum. 
That is why the harbour at Genoa is crowded with overseas ships laden with oil. Is it suggested that oil is to he used for making tea? What is the final destination of those cargoes? The paragraph continued - 
Exporters from the Balkans are expediting their consignments before sanctions operate. 
I ask honorable senators not to overlook the illustration which I used this morning - " With mad dogs barking ' Empire ' in Europe it is not Australia's business to enter the kennel." 
 Trevere,  an Italian paper, printed in bold type a list of eleven countries, including Australia. Its report continued - 
These are names to remember. Keep them handy for eventual reprisals. They refuse our products in order to paralyze our industries and deny us key products in order to stop our progress in East Africa. 

 Sir Austen Chamberlain has made the following comment: - 
If the question were put, "Would you as a last resort adopt military sanctions?,' I think you would be bound to say that the League, as the policeman of the world, must not he afraid. 
TheRome correspondent of the  Daily Telegraph  says - 
The newspapers continue to urge the people to boycott British goods, making appeals like the following: "English products are very bad. Moreover, you have to pay for them in gold to a country hostile to Italy." 
Can Australia afford to become embroiled in this conflict, in which it has no direct interest? Speaking in the House of Representatives, the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  said - 
Once any sanction was approved by the League, no constituent member, unless it was able to have its case treated as a special one . . . 
It will be seen from that statement that we are not necessarily dishonorable if we do not adhere to the provisions of the Covenant. Obviously, if other nations can have their cases treated as special cases, we should also be able to do so. 
Because of the impossibility of a population of only 7,000,000, including women and children - a mere handful compared with the hordes of other nations - adequately defending this country. The AttorneyGeneral continued -  . . was at liberty to refuse to give effect to that sanction without breaking its obligations under the Covenant. Before the Commonwealth or any other member of the League could be committed to the imposition of a new sanction, or to the extension of an existing one, however, the Government could consider the proposal and instruct its delegate as to its attitude. Before Austral ia could be committed to the imposition of military sanctions, the proposal to impose them would first have to come before the Government of the Commonwealth, which would give a decision thereon, and instruct its representative as to the vote he was to give on the proposal. 
I cannot think of anything more hypocritical, particularly when we remember that two Australian warships are now in the war zone. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The honorable senator is not entitled to apply the word "hypocritical " to a member of this Parliament. 
-If the Government is not hypocritical it is at least insincere. 
I ask the honorable senator to withdraw the word " hypocritical." 
The Chair has a. duty to perform, and the word must be withdrawn. 
-I have no desire to disregard the direction of the Chair. 
I have sat in this chamber while the most unworthy motives have been imputed to me, and have never turned a hair. In fact, I prefer the condemnation of honorable senators opposite to their commendation. In deference to your wishes, sir, I withdraw the word to which yon have taken exception. Regardless of the views which honorable senators may hold on this subject it cannot be denied that two Australian warships are now in the Mediterranean. If economic and financial sanctions are imposed by Australia one of these vessels may be fired upon and Australia will be in the conflict right up to its ears. In the House of Representatives yesterday the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  told the Lender of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin)  that, up to date, the Commonwealth had paid £451,350 towards the cost of the H.M.A.S.  Sydney,  and an equal amount was to be paid in 1935-36. Payments of a' similar amount would be made in 1936-37 and in 1937-38, while £294,631 would be payable in 1938-39. On a vessel which was practically obsolete when it left the dockyard, only one payment has yet been made. That vessel is now in the danger zone. If the League of Nations could give us collective security there might be some argument- 
The Minister cannot " put it over " the Opposition in that way. Has the Minister overlooked the fact that the United States of America, Germany, Austria and Italy are not now members of the League? I was amused at the belated repentance of Japan referred to by the Leader of the Senate. Are we to believe that Japan, whose armies marched into Manchuria, and subdued the people of that country by the most brutal methods known in modern warfare, and without even declaring war, is now penitent? This is a significant fast. The economic and financial sanctions which Parliament is asked to ratify are to become operative on the18th November. Having read what is happening in Great Britain I am convinced that the date on which sanctions are to be imposed has been delayed deliberately until after the British general elections, which have been sprung on the people in an attempt to " dish " the. Labour party. The electors, who are being told that the Government proposes to spend £200,000,000 on the navy, are being urged to oppose the Labour candidates. A Labour government would be in power in Great Britainafter the next elections but for the punning which the British Prime Minister is displaying. Britain intends to arm heavily and the Commonwealth Governmenthas committed itself to assist in enforcing the will of what remains of the League of Nations. Having regard to the possibilities of an effective blockade, I ask honorable senators to listen to the following paragraph, published in the  Sunday Sun  and  Guardian,  which is not, a Labour paper: - 
Throughout the last war, English and Frenchindustries maintained to Germany a steady stream of glycerine (for explosives), nickel, copper, oil and rubber. Germany even returned the compliment; she sent to France iron and steel and magnetos for gasoline engines. This constant traffic went on during the war in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Switzerland, Spain or Holland, by the simple process of transhipment- enemy to neutral to enemy. 
Yet the Leader of the Senate asks us to believe that these sanctions can be made effective. The paragraph continued - lt is no bristling Communist who supplies corroboration, but as conservative and wellconsidered a gentleman as Bear-Admiral William Warcop Peter  Consett,  who was British Naval Attache in Denmark between 1912 and 1917, and in Norway and Sweden between 1912 and 191.!). 
We have heard a good deal concerning the attitude of the United States of America. I have already said that that country is not interested in this bargaining business, and my contention is not in any way discounted by the statement of the Leader of the Senate this morning. What is the use of closing our eyes to the facts ? The following message from Washington is of interest: - lt was learned to-day, on unquestionable authority, that  President  Roosevelt's statement is intended to be more comprehensive than a mere warning against war business, and is calculated to discourage all United States trade with Italy. In other words the  president,  in effect, threatened to wield the big stick by branding business men, when circumstances justified, as war profiteers who were willing to embroil the United States in a war for the sake of a few dollars. 
The  President  of the United States of America has threatened to wield the big stick by branding as war profiteers those who are willing to embroil, their country in a war for the sake of monetary gain. Obviously, certain hig business interests in that country are supplying Italy with materials to enable it to carry on the war. During the great war we were not permitted to say certain things, and when the Crimes Bill now before this chamber is enacted the right of free speech will be further restricted. At present I cannot be prevented from saying what I was not permitted to say  during the war, arid that is that in Gallipoli Australian soldiers were shot down by the Turks, who were using guns of British manufacture. We have been told that Australia, as a member of the League, has no option; it has to abide by the 
Covenant. The members of the Austraiian Labour party do not propose to do that. From one end of Australia to the other the Australian Labour party, industrially and politically, has definitely declared itself against the imposition of sanctions. Why should we refuse food to Italy, and by so doing starve those Abyssinians, including women and children, whom Italy controls? Such eventualities may arise out of the imposition of sanctions to which this Government asks the Opposition to become a party. I point out that while we refuse food to Italy that country is being supplied with petrol; it is getting all the petrol that it needs. 
How much longer will it be before the League gets on with the real job? We propose to refuse to supply food to Italy, but apparently supplies of a more essential commodity - petrol - are to be continued, although this will enable Italy to operate against the Abyssinians its mechanized army, including its great fleet of aeroplanes. Let us be honest in this matter. The Leader of the Government does not tell us why petrol has not been specifically placed on the list of sanctions or mentioned in this bill. I suggest that the reason is that great international interests - the oil producers of different countries - want to continue to reap unholy profits out of Italy. Deny Italy petrol, and immediately its capacity to attack Abyssinia and prosecute the present conflict would be prejudiced. But the Government does not dare to tread on the tender toes of great international and vested interests, by following such a course. The whole thing is a rotten and disgusting business, in which the Opposition is asked to soil its hands; we will not agree to that. Writing in the  Sunday Sun  of the 20th October,  Mr. Charles  Melaun said - 
The wall around Italy is not even built yet, but holes appear in it already, here and there. American oil interests when approached to join in shutting off this vital product from Italy, refused to do so. as petrol is not on President Roosevelt's embargo list. 
Will the imposition of sanctions really help to establish collective security? What really do we propose to do? The suggestion now made, which I will put in the form of a quotation from  Mr. J.  R. Clynes, who. was Secretary of State for Home Affairs in the last Labour Government in Britain is- 
We can have peace by millions of bayonets, by a strong navy and a. greater air force, and, having talked peace with a background of gunpowder, are asked to believe that all these armaments are assembled to be ready not to use them. 
Great Britain, as the greatest colonizing country of the world, is not new to this game. It has proselytized the natives, going, to them with a rum bottle in one hand and a gun behind its back. We are told that great navies and armies should be assembled in the cause of peace; that the forces that are being assembled by the nations to-day will not be used. If honorable senators heard that I had gone to Sydney to take lessons in pugilism, would they conclude that I was adopting such a course just for fun or that I was preparing against my return to this chamber to combat any belligerent young opponent who might tackle me here? Obviously, if I pay for boxing lessons I intend to use the knowledge I gain. Similarly, when nations pay for armaments they intend to use them.  Mr. J.  R. Clynes continued - 
We have national leaders who go looking for peace with a gun. It is a delusion that national security means armaments. 
I do, but that is beside the point. There will never be a dearth of excuses for embroiling a country in war. The Leader of the Senate was prolific in advancing such excuses this morning. He reeled them off in the polished phrases of which he is a master, until he almost persuaded me that there was something in them. In, 1914 the cry was " poor little Belgium ". Australians then were told that little Belgian children had had their hands cut off at the wrists. The. fact was that not one victim of such atrocities could be produced. However, the cry was effective and Australia, like the wonderful country it is, rallied to that cry. What is the cry to-day? It is - save the League of Nations in the interests of collective security. As a rallying cry this is one of the cleverest. subtlest and most specious that has ever yet been raised in the cause of war. It may be put as follows : Are you in f avour of war? No? Well then support the League of Nations, In other words, go looking for peace with a gun. The Great War of 1914 was a war to end war; now the cry is that this conflict is a war to ensure peace. To show that our arguments are not wholly illogical, I quote from ProfessorCharteris who, when addressing the Sydney Constitutional Club on sanctions, said - 
The only thing that is obligatory is article 16 which is impossible as it is so rigorous that it cannot be enforced. All that can be done by outside authorities is to make a recommendation and it is for Australia to say whether it will accept that recommendation or not, 
Obviously, Australia would not be disloyal if it declined to be a party to the sanctions. As Professor Charteris has pointed out, the matter of sanctions rests on a recommendation which Australia can accept or reject. I point out that 46 per cent. of the people who voted for my party at the federal election twelve months ago- 
No; they have not voted yet on this matter, and this Government is not game to submit it to a vote of the people. The former Minister for Health and Repatriation  (Mr. Hughes)  is to-day the greatest political figure in Australia because his statements on sanctions have touched the hearts of the people, and have caused the Government to victimize him. I suggest that the Government should go to the people on this matter, and ask them if they are prepared to become embroiled in war for the sake of international security. Whatever mandate the Government received at. the last federal elections, it was given by only 54 per cent. of the people who voted; the remainder voted for Labour party candidates. But at the last election the Government did not mention war, or, in fact, any of the important measures which have been put through this chamber since its return to power. Government candidates told the people that they would tackle unemployment, but they have not so far touched that matter. They have not tackled the mandate they received from the people to save the youth of the nation from its loss of morale due to unemployment; young men of from 18 to 21 years of age have not yet had a job and the only employment this Government can give them apparently is to send them overseas as cannon fodder. 
Australia is being invited - and I particularly draw the attention of the Leader of the Government to this pointto become a participant in the manufacture of the. hell broth now brewing in that witch's cauldron, Central Europe. The Government knows this to be a fact as well as we do. It knows that as a result of the Treaty of Versailles, not peace, but war, has been brought into the hearts of the people of Europe - that as a result of the harsh terms of that treaty the youths of Italy and Germany have been goaded into revolt, and that this factor is the cause of conditions existing in those countries to-day. The world is suffering from a plethora of pacts. God save us from any more of them ! We have the Pact of Paris, the Kellogg Pact and the Treaty of Versailles. These make up a medley which is at once contradictory and confusing. But one central fact of primary importance to Australia is, as I have already shown, that each country in the League of Nations is entitled to decide for itself whether or not it will do those tilings which this bill invites us to do and which in their essence are acts of war. Let us not forget that standing back in the dreadful shadows of this Abyssinian dispute and everything it connotes are the great armament firms, the ghoulish manufacturers of death for profit, wealthy traitors to every country. These are facts! Let  us  come down out of the clouds and face them. Are we going to give the armament trusts the opportunity which would be afforded them if we ourselves entered into this brawl? A sub-committee of the Temporary Mixed Commission of the League of Nations in 1921 - and conditions, I remind honorable senators, have not altered very much since - made the following charges against the armament firms: - 
Armament firms have been active in fomenting war scares and in persuading their own countries to adopt warlike policies and to increase their armaments. 
Armament firms have attempted to bribe government officials both at home and abroad. 
Armament firms have disseminated false reports concerning the military and naval programmes of various countries in order to stimulate armament expenditure. 
Armament firms have sought to influence public opinion through the control of newspapers in their own and foreign countries. 
Armament firms have organized international rings through which the armaments race has been accentuated by playing off one country against another. 
Armament firms have organized international armament trusts, which have increased the price of armaments to governments.  [Extension of time granted.] 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

I have already stated that the Opposition believes that Australia should keep out of the trouble between Italy and Abyssinia. The following extract from the Sydney  Sunday Sun  of the 13th October, 1935,. sets out clearly the position of Australia - 
In Canberra this week a young nation has. been standing at the cross-roads of its destiny; in the sight of the whole people a decision has been made as to the road to be taken. But the people themselves will make the ultimate decision on the issue oil which Parliament has just voted. 
With a few lapses the debate has been conducted on a high level. Personalities have been  largly  avoided, and many membershave made thoughtful and carefully-prepared speeches. 
I would say that the question on which the House ultimately voted was approximately this :  - 
Putting on one side every purely ethical and moral argument, taking no account of the rights and wrongs of the Italo- Abyssinian quarrel, eliminating every consideration of world? patriotism, disregarding even the fate of other Empire countries, studying solely Australian self-interest - what is the best way of keeping Australia out of war, both now and in the next decade? 
In those last words you have the crux of the matter. Both now and in the next decade ". The Opposition believes that there is imminent danger of a world war and a grave risk that Australia will be dragged into it. 
The refusal of the Opposition to support the League is not based on any disagreement with its theories or ideals; it takes the view that the League has become so weak through defections as to be dangerous, that it is no longer a real league of nations, but is such a defective weapon that it is liable to explode in the hand's of the user. Such a weapon, the Opposition says, should he put aside. 
It is our duty calmly to consider all the facts, or such of them as ' we are permitted to know. I say deliberately as a result of years of experience outside of Parliament as well as some years in this chamber, that we are not permitted to know all the facts. And without a knowledge of all the facts we should not submit to what this bill asks of us. The Government does not dare to acquaint the Senate with all the facts. It is not prepared to lay all its cards on the table. It knows very well thatOld World complications are such that we are, as it were, sitting on the edge of a volcano all the time. Before making up our minds regarding this bill we should know all the facts that are available. We should set aside racial prejudices, and realize that a policy of " one in, all in " is not necessarily a wise one. " My country right or wrong " is inherently vicious, and leads to injustice and tyrnanny. Let us free our minds of catch cries, and realize that there is such a thing as the tyranny of words. Surely, it is illogical for intelligent Australians to believe that war can possibly be a cure for the crime of war. One might as well pour petrol on a fire in an attempt to put it out as resort to war in order to destroy war. I am reminded of the words of JamesRussell Lowell - 
Ef you take a sword an' dror it, 
An' go stick a feller thru, 
Guv-ment ain't to answer for it, 
God'll send the bill to you. 
Honorable senators cannot escape from their individual responsibilties. I ask whether, by agreeing to sanctions, we shall be making Australia's finest contribution to the cause of civilization and human progress and happiness? In all sincerity, I suggest that Australia should not be expected to take part in Old World feuds. This continent contains only a handful of people who are many thousands of miles distant from the centre of disturbance, and it is our duty and privilege to develop it along the lines of social justice and industrial peace. We should not do anything which is inconsistent with the best interests of agreat democracy and the principles of liberty, equality, and fraternity. The Leader of the Senate has not told us all to which Australia is committed as a member of the League of Nations. 
In regard to social and international peace the following reference to the International Labour Organization of the League of Nations is enlightening :  - 
The Constitution of the League of Nations will not provide a real solution of the troubles that have beset the world in the past and will not even be able to eliminate the seeds of international strife unless it provides a remedy for the industrial evils and injustices which mar the present state of society. In proposing, therefore, to establish a permanent organization in order to adjust labour conditions by international action, the Commission felt that it was taking an indispensable step towards the achievement of the objects of the League of Nations. 
The same view is expressed in the preamble to Part XIII. of the Versailles Treaty, which declares that - 
Whereas the League of Nations has for its object the establishment of universal peace, and such a peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice: 
And whereas conditions of labour exist involving such injustice, hardship and privation to large numbers of people as to produce unrest so great that the peace and harmony of the world are imperilled . . . 
The High Contracting Parties, moved by sentiments of justice and humanity, as well as by the desire to secure the permanent peace of the world, agree to the following .  ' . . 
Then follow the  40  articles of the Constitution of the International Labour Organization. The Versailles Treaty recognized that international peace and social justice are bound up together. That is what the Opposition is always trying to impress on honorable senators opposite. International peace is impossible while world conditions remain  as  they are. There cannot be international peace while thousands of young men are turned out of our schools, colleges and universities every year with no prospects of employment. So long as men are forced to roam the streets of our great cities, and are in danger of being destroyedbody and soul because of the social injustices which exist, there cannot be international peace. There cannot be peace between States if there is class war within the State. The Crimes Bill, with which we dealt yesterday, is deliberately designed to deal with  those who preach class war, even though, like myself, they hate it. Practically  the  who.e of the civilized world is pledged under article 13 of the Covenant, not only to recognize this fact, but also to try to solve the resulting problem by cooperation and conciliation. That means that they recognize  the important fact that States and classes are not ultimate realities, but are merely temporary expedients adopted by humanity to organize its communal life. In other words, wc cannot go on as we are. The present social order cannot long continue, for there exists a clash of interests between section and section and between nation and nation. I commend to honorable senators a volume in the library entitled  The Retreat from Glory,  by Bruce Lockhart, a gentleman who has  occuped  diplomatic, positions of varying importance in many of the States of central Europe.  Mr. Lockhart  says - 
One tiling was curtain. The new Europe, which wc had hoped to build, was crumbling rapidly. The period of glory was ended. The armed peace of the victors had made a travesty of the League of Nations, had sown resentments deeper than the wa.r had created, lt was destroying the German  Repubic.  In the  Sucession  States millions of Slavs had been liberated from the yoke of Austria and Hungary. Freedom, education, and countless new benefits had been bestowed on the former downtrodden. But, in spite of enlightened statesmen like President Masaryk, they had not  benefited  by their own experience. Nearly everywhere they were repeating the same injustices and the same intolerance as their former oppressors had  once  shown towards them. Not a single one of the problems left by the peace had been solved. Germany was a festering sore. Hungary, who had learnt least from thu war, was, admittedly, a difficult problem. But Austria, whoso favour and goodwill the Little Entente could have won without difficulty in 1022, had been left in hopeless destitution. Bulgaria, whose people at n.ny rate should not have been punished for the sins of their former King, was still without an outlet to the Aegean. The Cl, 02eSt fruits of man's intelligence, peace by  enlightment,  fraternity, justice, and fa.ir play, democracy, freedom of individual opinion, had been allowed to rot  ungathered.  Common sense had gone by the board. Idealism was dead, and everywhere  the:  cynics and the armament firms were coming into their own. 
Much as I tried to understand the point of  view  of the French. I could not appreciate thu logic of their terrible consistency. I knew, a.s every one knew, that there were  militarists  in Germany - irrecony.il able militarists who wished to re-establish rule by the sword. In 1019 thev had been discredited. But ever since Versailles French policy had played into their hands. There could be no peace in Europe so long as any  e  Frenchman  wau dared to suggest a policy  of  reconciliation with Germany was considered a traitor by other  Frenchmen,  and  so  long as Gorman militarists were allowed to proclaim that thu Germany army had been defeated, not by the arms of thu -Mi iea, but by the treachery of German Socialists and Rujju.hl.cans. 
quoted that extract merely to show that there is no peace, and there can be no peace, and that the present  embroglio  between Italy and Abyssinia is one outcome of the Treaty of Versailles, reparations, and other things agreed upon by the victors at the conclusion of the last war. This bill involves us in that em bro-'io. Once having agreed to those sanctions, we cannot consistently fail to consent to other acts that may be rendered necessary as this dispute progresses. 
I desire honorable senators to believe me when I say that I have not made my address here merely because I sit in Opposition. This is not some new, outlook on the problems and theories of life which I have arrived at within recent months. I have always held the opinions that I speak to-day with regard to the non-necessity and horrors of war. 1 have said before in this chamber that if wo had a Minister for Peace instead of a Minister for Defence, a Council of Peace instead of a Council for War, and if we were prepared to develop this great southern democracy along the lines of constructive peacewilling, desiring, working for and. if necessary, paying for, peace - wi&gt; would light a beacon that would be a guide to the other nations of the world. If, having put our hands to the plough, we had the courage, energy and determination to plough our furrow, even though it be a lone one, to the end, we would be making a greater contribution towards the settlement of this dispute, and the peace and harmony of the world, with resultant prosperity, progress and happiness for the whole community, than is possible bv becoming participants in the application of sanctions. I ask honorable senators to believe that this opposition to the bill is not something ephemeral. We did not decide to take this course on the. spur of the moment, or because we constitute the Opposition. I have always firmly believed that our  actions  live after us, and continue on  until this great globe is dissolved. They pass inevitably down as an inheritance from one generation to another. Every act we perform affects our own character and every character affects that of someone else. Every act of every character is still affecting this nation to-day. We labour -under tue baseness of others and are raised by their nobility. Social and anti-social actions alike live on. Decency and integrity, courage and compassion are always well worth while. They are not lost but pass on down the generations. We are, indeed, the heirs of all ages. The future is the heir of the present as the present is the heir of the past. I ask honorable senators before casting their votes to believe that they will not be doing anything original in supporting this bill. Through the centuries Parliaments, when faced with crises such as that which now confronts us, always without exception, have come to the same decision. There have always been the same specious appeals to the spurious patriotism of the people, pleading which only gets us further into the bog of international injustice and tyranny. There is never any attempt made to tackle the problem in any new, more Christian; righteous, and just manner. 
I believe with Johnson, that patriotism, as preached by the warmongers in this chamber and elsewhere, is the last refuge of scoundrels. There has never been a war in which the alleged patriots - Jabez Wright and the like - have not waxed fat on the misery and degradation of the people, who first gave their blood, and, later, if they were fortunate enough to be spared, had to bear the burden of taxation to pay for the war. When  Senator Brennan  asked by interjection whether I believe in patriotism his object was that, later on, he should be able to misrepresent my attitude. He did not ask the question in order to obtain an answer from me which would enable me further to protest my honesty in this business, but he endeavoured to trap me into making some indiscreet reply which might be used against me in the future. I shall not be caught bv that means. In the sacred name of patriotism, every form of tyranny and injustice has been fastened on the people. Because I believe that as we mate our own characters, we affect the characters of others in the community, and that at this hour Australia stands at the cross-roads of destiny, and has a wonderful opportunity and responsibility to do something unconventional, unorthodox and worthwhile, I urge that we should try what the gospel of love can do, instead of the gospel of hate. Let us try consistency with humanitarian principles, instead of inconsistency. I have quoted from the convention of the International Labour Office, an integral part of the League of Nations. Let us remember that there is no hocus pocus, no magical formula by which we can encompass peace, but there is hocus pocus, a sample of which we had this mornm%&gt; by which we can provoke war. We have a wonderful opportunity to put ourselves right, both with ourselves and with the world, and go marching forward to a higher standard of human understanding, righteousness, cleanliness and decency than that which any other country has enjoyed hitherto. 
 I admit that if the use of voluminous disconnected snippets could have proved his case,  Senator Collings  would have proved his case up to the hilt. I can congratulate him upon the industry and assiduity of hi.private secretary, but regret that out of the mass of material which he presented to us, he did not develop a consecutive argument. In the use of the disconnected snippets he managed at times to convey quite a wrong expression. For instance, amongst those whom he cited was  Sir Stafford  Cripps, a former AttorneyGeneral and leader of the British Labour party. So far as I could follow the honorable senator, he cited  Sir Stafford  Cripps as one of those who had view:-: on sanctions which harmonized with his own opinions. As to that, I can only say that  Sir Stafford  Cripps did advocate sanctions in the case of the Japanese; penetration into Manchuria, but when he came to the case of Italy, he refused to be a party to the application of sanction, and broke away from the great Labour movement with which he was associated, rather than see the sanctions enforced. The honorable senator may  well bear in mind the figures quoted by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  with regard to the opinions of the Trades Unions Congress which met at Margate this year. 
I admit that, but realizing that the honorable senator might fail to take any notice of them, I thought it would be very desirable to call attention to them.  Senator Collings  referred to my question to him by interjection as to whether he believed in patriotism. He stated that I asked the question with the object of misrepresenting later on what he would say. "We have got into the habit of disregarding many of the extravagances of language which the honorable senator uses, but I had no intention of seeking to misrepresent his views either now or hereafter. On the contrary, I am very anxious that his opinions in all their nakedness should go out to the world. I think they are the best answer to himself, and so far from mispresenting him, I hope that his statements will be represented and recorded with great accuracy.He said he knew when the Leader of the Senate began to move the second reading of the bill that he would say what is always said as an excuse for war. Does the honorable senator mean by that that the Leader of the Senate is in favour of war? Does he mean that the Government of which  Senator Pearce  is a member is in favour of war? 
Does the honorable senator believe that the great majority of members of this Parliament are in favour of war, or does he mean that the people who support this Government are in favour of war? 
How can one please the honorable senator? On the one hand, he blames  Mr. Stanley  Baldwin for submitting the issue to the people in Great Britain, and, on the other, he criticizes this Government for having failed to submit it to the Australian public. 
Perhaps, then, that statement is praise and not blame. One of the observations made, I think, in the last but one of the perorations in which the honorable senator indulged, was an expression of hope that we would try to preach the doctrine of love. That reminds me very much of the saying that Carlyle had preached the gospel of silence through 50 volumes. The Leader of the Opposition has for 50 years preached the doctrine of love through the doctrine of hate. I have never heard him say anything which any one could construe into the doctrine of love. Therefore, let him not preach to us about it. Let him practise it. The honorable gentleman also said that this Parliament does not decide these matters; that the decision is made behind closed doors. I do wish that at times he would say exactly what he means. What does he mean when he declares that the decision in these matters is reached behind closed doors? And by whom is the decision made? 
Then the allegation is that the decision in this matter is made by the Government of Great Britain. The honorable senator went: on to tell us that our representative abroad had been instructed what he should say at Geneva. To that my reply is that  Mr. Bruce  had either to be instructed or allowed to act on his own initiative. I can imagine what the honorable senator would have said if the Government had admitted that it had no control whatever over the representative of Australia at Geneva. Would we not have heard him complaining that our representative could have committed this Parliament and Australia to any course of action which he deemed advisable ? 
Every step takenpreliminary to the decision to impose sanctions was communicated by Mr.Bruce or the British Government to this Government, and communicated by this Government to Parliament. 
SenatorCollings.  -After  the decision had been made. 
In submitting the decision of this matter to the Parliament, the Government submitted it to the people of this country as a whole, and I venture the opinion that there never was, on a matter of major policy, an occasion when the people of Australia were so unanimously in support of the Government's action as they are to-day in connexion with sanctions. 
I admit that the  tu quoque  form of argument is the weakest that one can adopt. Therefore, I. hesitate to say that we on this side knew exactly what  Senator Collings  intended to say - though I admit that we did not know the precise language which he would employ - before herose to pour it ail forth upon us. 
-We knew what he intended to say, and I should add that we grieved, because it does seem to me, and I am sure also to those on this side holding similar views, a very regrettable thing that in a matter affecting, not merely Australia, but also the whole world, and affecting also not merely this generation but also generations to come, we should not have the benefit of the independent opinions of honorable senators who sit opposite. It is regrettable that we should be obliged to hear expressed, with more or less vehemence and interlarded with lengthy quotations, opinions that are essentially machine made. The Leader of the Opposition knows that all that is necessary for him to do in order to get into the " news ", on the front pages of the newspapers, is to rise in his place in this chamber and give expression to views in opposition to those of his own party, which views are themselves in opposition to the opinion of many Labour organizations in Australia as well as in Great Britain and the other dominions. 
But the argument of the Leader of the Opposition, as I understood it, comes too late. He has told us that sanctions mean war. This, I suggest, is not the time to call attention to that fact, even if what he has said were true. The time to call attention to the inevitability of war, as he put it, following the imposition of sanctions, was when Australia became a signatory to the League of Nations Covenant, because if the imposition of sanctions to-day means war, it meant war fifteen years ago, and it has meant war in all the intervening years. No protesting voice was raised when Australia took its place beside other nations in the League. I repeat that everything that is involved to-day following the imposition of sanctions was involved then and has been involved in the intervening years. Is it suggested that we can enter into solemn obligations with other nations - obligations which admittedly involve something on our side and something on their side - and so long as it is confined to talking about Australia's part as a nation retain our membership of the League, hut so soon as the situation begins to look a bit troublesome, then, in the eloquent language of the Leader of the Opposi tion, we may retire into our kennel and bark? 
It appears to me that what the honorable senator has been saying this afternoon comes very near to preaching a counsel of cowardice. The imposition of sanctions, he tells us, may lead to war. When  Senator Dein,  who sits behind him, called attention to the word " may " and suggested that, after all, it did not necessarily follow that the imposition of sanctions would lead to war, the Leader of ' the Opposition said " Yes ; we are afraid of that word ' may ' ". 
The honorable senator approves of my interpretation of his attitude, and I repeat that he is preaching a counsel ofcowardice when he says that we should not stand up to the obligations which we have entered into  because to do so may lead to unpleasant consequences. 
The honorable senator must know the implications of our entering into those solemn obligations. If I have not correctly interpreted his attitude I should be glad if the honorable senator would, on some other occasion and at not too great length, tell us what he did mean. But I am sure that he knows enough of the world's history to acknowledge that through the ages from the time when Leonidas, with 300 men, kept the pass at Thermopylae against the overwhelming odds that were sent against them, honour has gone not to those who shirked their  obligations  but to those who stood up to them. 
Has the honorable senator read - I feel sure he has - Lincoln's three-minute speech at the consecration of portion of the battlefield of Gettysburg? Lincoln was no swashbuckler, but in that notable speech he spoke .most eloquently of the sacrifices made by American soldiers in one of the greatest wars up to that time - and one of the most painful, because it was a war amongst brothers. But during the whole of that terrible conflict there was no talk of backing out of obligations; no talk of shirking duties; the nation had to be saved, and those who gave their lives that the nation might live will never bc forgotten. 
The honorable senator's interjection merely indicates that cowardice is the paramount feeling in his mind, because he thinks that this matter has to be looked at from the point of view of- saving one's skin from being pierced. He has too low an estimate of human nature. Let me tell him that in the last arbitrament between nations, the unit is not the individual, but the nation itself. Again to quote Lincoln, " those men gave their lives that the nation might live". And it is the effect on the nation, not on the individual, that eventually comes to take its place in history. 
The further the honorable senator proceeds the more unblushing he becomes in preaching his cowardice. 
I withdraw any allegation of cowardice which I may have made against  Senator Collings,  but I repeat that the general policy outlined by the honorable senator ran very close to a counsel of cowardice. He said that sanctions lead to war. But do they? Do so much of the sanctions as have been imposed necessarily lead, or are they likely to lead, to war between Australia and Italy? Roughly speaking, our sanctions are split up into three separate sections. One deals with financial assistance to Italian nationals, another with imports to Italy and the third with exports from Italy. I remind the Senate that these sanctions are imposed, not in the Mediterranean, and not outside the harbour of Naples, but in the offices of our Customs Department. There has been no sugegstion,  so far, that they should bc enforced by a blockade. We have only one warship that could take part in any blockade. It cannot be seriously argued that any action which we have ta.ken to the present time, will mean a blockade of Italian ports. 
I am not responsible for the movements of the British fleet. Whatever action is taken by the Commonwealth is in the exercise of the powers which every selfgoverning nation possesses, and at some time or another exercises. It is then suggested that if sanctions are not carried to the extent of a blockade and then to the extent of war they must necessarily be ineffective? I dispute that contention. What happened during the great war? The earth was combed for materials necessary to prosecute that war. The materials necessary to prosecute a modern war are much more varied than they were in earlier and simpler times. Can any one say that it will mean nothing to Italy if 50 nations close their doors and refuse to trade with it? Italy has to carry on the present Avar with all the resources that it can command, andby any means at its disposal. Italy cannot disregard the fact that if finance and materials required for the prosecution of the war are not forthcoming it will be unable to carry on. Therefore I dispute the two propositions. First, that the imposition of sanctions, to which this Parliament is asked to agree, must necessarily lead to war, and, secondly, that if they do not they must be ineffective. Australia ought to receive some moral support from the fact that, in the course it is talcing, it is in line with 50 other nations. The Leader of the Opposition said that in matters of this kind the Commonwealth Government receives its instructions from Great Britain, based on decisions reached behind closed doors at No. 10 Downing-street. No instructions have ever reached the Commonwealth Government or any member of it from No. 10 Downing-street, or from any occupant of that historic building. 
SenatorCollings. - From what source did the Government receive a list of the commodities on which sanctions are to be imposed? 
Our dealings havebeen with the League of Nations. Nothing has ever happened which, by any stretch of the most vivid imagination, could be regarded as directions from the British Government. Australia is acting in conjunction with Great Britain, France and 50 smaller nations. Although the United States of America is not a member of the League, that country is co-operating with the members of the League. I ask the Leader of the Opposition, who said that the Commonwealth Government received its instructions from Great Britain, if there is anything wonderful in the fact that the peoples of two countries, belonging to the same race and inheriting the same traditions, should adopt the same views in matters of major policy? It seems to me that there is no room for argument upon the point that Australia is acting in unison with Great Britain in this instance. Let the Leader of the Opposition consider what has taken place since the outbreak of hostilities in Abyssinia. Have other nations looked on to see to what extent the Italian army has advanced? Are they wondering when the next city is likely to fall ? No. They have looked to see what Great Britain proposes to do - whether it will honour its obligations. Their attitude is an unconscious tribute to the hegemony of the British race. He should take hope. He should not be so despondent concerning what is likely to happen. He should remember that - 
Not once or twice in our rough island-story The path of duty was the way to glory. 
In this matter Great Britain, and Australia in its small way, are taking the path of duty and, I trust, because it is the path of duty and not because it may prove to be the way to glory. As the Leader of the Senate said, we should commence in the only way we can to ensure permanent peace. 
We can go after peace by carrying out the obligations we have entered into. If we fail to do that, what becomes of the hopes entertained fifteen years ago when that great undertaking, the League of Nations, was launched? If the world fails now to enforce the Covenant of the League and make it operative when is it going to operate? It cannot be in this generation. Some other generation will have to take up the work and without the benefit of our example in the matter. In these circumstances the Government has no option. It has entered into  obligations and it intends to honour them, lt will deal with the consequences that may arise when they do arise. 
After listening to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan),  I rise with some diffidence to speak on this important subject. Each Minister has stated the position very clearly from his viewpoint. Their opinions may have considerable influence, because sentiment plays a very important part in the minds of the people, particularly during periods of national stress. It is easy for an honorable senator or any other public  speaker  to appeal to the people on sentimental grounds, and, in this instance, a strong appeal will be made to the people to support the League of Nations in its effort to impose economic and financial sanctions on Italy. Such an appeal lias been made by all -sections of the community including ministers of the gospel whose responsibility it is to preach the doctrine of peace. The members of tha Australian Labour party are as sincere in the policy they advocate as are honorable senators opposite in the course they are following. According to the arguments adduced by our opponents, the members of the Labour party are seeking refuge in a coward's castle. It has been said that we are sneaking away from our obligations, and beating a strategic retreat to a point where we shall be perfectly safe. That is not so. We feel that our action is just as courageous as is the action of honorable senators opposite. As a matter of fact, it is tho easiest thing in the world to pander to the people and by using platitudes speak of peace in our time, but it is not so easy to advocate a policy requiring thought and consideration. Although I may not agree with the views of extreme pacifists, we have to admit that some of the finest mcn in the world have definitely declared that in no circumstances  will  they take hu in  an  life. During the  war,  many men were persecuted because of the attitude they adopted towards  Avar,  and the sacrifices some made were equal to those of men who served at the front. The British Labour party is supporting a policy which it believes to be right. The Australian Labour party, which is opposed to the imposition of sanctions, believes that it is right. As was admitted by  Mr. Baldwin,  we are ail engaged in a mighty gamble. There is a possibility of war, and Great Britain may have to go further than the imposition of economic sanctions. The Leader of the Senate mentioned this morning that  Mr. Morrison,  who is  chairman  of the London County Council, has taken a definite stand, but I would remind the right honorable gentleman that  Mr. Morrison  makes the significant statement that if the imposition of sanctions leads to war, the British Labour party will have to review  the  position. Having studied this subject from every angle, the members of the Australian Labour party are convinced that the imposition of sanctions will ultimately lead to  Avar,  and because of that  Ave  intend to oppose the bill. We hold that those who believe that it is right to impose sanctions should be prepared to see the matter through to the bitter end, even to the arbitrament of  Avar.  How could the Labour party,  as a party, support sanctions and then,  when  Italy inevitably took reprisals and  Avar  resulted, say to the people of Australia: " We are sorry  Ave have  reached the end of our tether;  Ave  will have to  Avithdraw  " ? It is because the Parliamentary Labour party has viewed this situation from every angle, and has come to the definite conclusion that the imposition of sanctions will lead to  Avar,  that it,  Avith  the  whole  of the Labour movement, has decided not to support the Government in this course. If  the  voice of the Australian Labour party could reach overseas we would like to tell our comrades on  the  other side of the world that our position is entirely different from theirs. Europe has its own peculiar problems, and  Ave  have ours. Australia, being situated in the southern Pacific, and far distant from the centre of the Empire, cannot be expected to follow blindly every action taken by our kinsmen overseas, even if amongst those people are a majority of the people of England. As my leader has pointed out, Australia's population is less than  7,000,000,  and if by our action  Ave  are to be committed to another war, we may lose another  60,000 or 100,000 of ourmanhood on thebattlefields, in which event our defensive strength would be dangerously reduced. I also stress the point that if Australia as a nation supports at all times the League of Nations, irrespective of the circumstances, we may be embarrassed when the matter of Australia's extensive unpopulated areas is being considered by the League in the future. I emphasize that the consequences of whatever action we take to-day will not be confined to the present. This Government is definitely committing Australia to a policy of agreement with the League of Nations. Is it not possible that in the near future when our unpopulated areas are being discussed by the League - and this matter has already been mentioned on many occasions in the councils of the League - that body may adopt a policy which runs contrary to our immigration policy, and the White Australia principle? What would be the position of Australia if the League should, in its wisdom, decide that Australia, having extensive unpopulated areas, should admit migrants, including some of those who, in the past, have been kept out of this country? Would this Government, under such circumstances, plead, as the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and  Senator Brennan  have pleaded to-day, and as it has pleaded through its press and publicists, that we should stand behind the emasculated League? Or would the supporters of this Government then begin to look for excuses to justify abandonment of the League?  Senator Brennan  said that the Labour movement had openly supported the League of Nations, but is now adopting a contrary policy, because we say that Australia should not participate in the imposition of sanctions. The honorable senator's argument sounds all right, but it will not bear examination. The position to-day is altogether different from that which existed a few years ago. The Labour party and the Labour movement have supported the League of Nations. They believed that a league composed of all the nations of the world could, by economic pressure, bring to bear sufficient force to compel any recalcitrant nation to accept peaceful arbitration in an international dispute. That was all right in theory, but in practice it does not work. 
The League of Nations is not composed of all the powerful nations, for at the present time Japan, Germany and the. United States of America are not members, this notwithstanding the fact that  President  Wilson was really the founder of the Leagune. Furthermore, Italy has run contrary to the expressed will of the League, leaving only two of the more powerful nations - Great Britain and France - in the organization. I do not mention Russia in this connexion because honorable senators opposite have invariably contended that Russia should be kept out of the comity of nations, and that we should have no truck with it. 
Yes; there are nations like Ecuador, Peru, a few other South American States, Mexico, and a conglomeration of small States which have no force or power, and would not exercise any force or power in any struggle which might eventuate. Possibly, these same nations would run counter to the wishes of the League of Nations if the League became embroiled in a struggle with the object of preserving the peace of the world. Thus, the argument that 50 nations are members of the League is very weak. Undoubtedly, the main powers in it are France, Great Britain, and Italy, and for the last 30 years these three powers have been deeply involved in negotiations and activities for the economic partition of Abyssinia. Our people read in the press of these negotiations, agreements and understandings, and they naturally ask themselves in all innocence, whether these nations, in playing a leading partin the present activities of the League, are as disinterested as some supporters of the League would have us believe. Can we sincerely say that Great Britain, France and Italy could act in this matter entirely from disinterested motives? Is it not true that these countries have ratified certain treaties with respect to the economic partition of Abyssinia, and that they have fallen out over the matter; that such treaties were signed on the understanding that none of the signatories was to take any action in collaboration with another without informing the third party of its intention; that that undertaking was broken, and one of these parties indignantly attacked the other two, because they had committed such a breach? Honorable senators know that these are facts. Therefore, when the people of Australia are told that three of the most powerful nations are not members of the League, and that the three most powerful members of the League are quarrelling over the economic partition of Abyssinia, they are entitled to question the bona fides of those who say that the impending struggle is one to end war and bring about a reign of peace on earth. 'The queries I have raised are being asked by the people. 
I declare that America, Japan, and Germany, which are three of the seven foremost powers of the world, are not members of the League. I point out that Italy has taken its present course contrary to the wishes of the other members of the League, with the result that, virtually, only two of the more important nations - excepting Russia - are left in the League. And history proves that those two nations have been economically interested in Abyssinia in the past. I do not mention these facts with the idea of reflecting on the attitude of Great Britain, or any other nation. 
It controls territory on three sides of Abyssinia ; in fact, Africa as a whole has been cut up, and is now practically governed and controlled by European nations. Abyssinia is practically the only remaining independent State. 
I object to such an inference being drawn from my remarks. The honorable senator's interjection is stupid. It has to be admitted that every nation has to look after its economic interests, and because Britain is doing so I do not suggest that it is prompted by ulterior motives. Economic interests are vital to individuals as well as to nations. Because I state plain facts, no honorable senator is justified in saying that I impute ulterior motives to Great Britain. I am merely stating the position as I understand it, in an endeavour to explain why the Labour party says that, under all the circumstances, it is better for Australia not to join with other countries for the purpose of imposing sanctions on Italy. This is a plain, straightforward statement, and I fail to see how I can reasonably be charged with imputing ulterior motives to any nation. When an honorable senator discusses facts and realities, however unpalatable they may be to some people, it does not follow that he is resorting to underground tactics. All nations to-day are actuated in the main by economic circumstances, and the sooner this Government recognizes that fact the better. I do not intend to be humbugged by sentimentalists. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  put his side of the case well when he gave his reasons why the people of Australia should stand by the Government. Knowing that the Labour party had made a strong point of the fact that the United States of America is not a member of the League of Nations, the right honorable gentleman reminded us that that nation had passed a Neutrality Bill which practically amounted to sanctions against Italy, in that it prevented the export of arms to that country. Remembering also that Germany and Japan are not members of the League, he told us that Hitler had decided not to intervene and that Japan would remain neutral. There are economic reasons why the United States of America does not wish to be embroiled in European affairs. For many years that country refused to participate in the Great War, but eventually it decided to join the Allies against Germany. The actions of the United States of America are determined not so much by a high regard for peace as by the economic interests involved. Similarly Hitler's neutrality in the present conflict is not due to his love of peace. He and his followers are among the most warlike people on earth. At the moment Hitler advocates German neutrality in the present conflict, not because he loves the League of Nations or desires peace, but because lie is of the opinion that  the interest® of Germany can best be 'advanced by adopting a  neutral  attitude. Much the same may be said truthfully of Japan. Although not now a member of the League of Nations, Japan is opposed to Italy. The reason may be found in the fact that Japan has an ever-increasing market in Abyssinia. Japan is not a peace-loving nation, for when economic circumstances necessitated action, it engaged in a war with China without even making a declaration of war. Honorable senators know what that nation did in Manchuria. The League of Nations was not particularly active in regard to that act of aggression, probably because the most powerful of its members were not interested in Manchuria. But had Great Britain and France been as interested in that territory as they are in Abyssinia, one wonders whether the League of Nations would not have adopted in regard to Japan's aggression an attitude similar to that taken up by it in respect of Italy's invasion of Abyssinia. The man in the street is asking why the League of Nations, which is so active in the Italo-Abyssinian dispute, was apparently little concerned with the invasion of Manchuria by Japan. The considered opinion of the Labour party is that some nations are not concerned so much with peace as with their economic interests. Indeed, under the existing economic system, that is only natural. The editorial columns of those newspapers which advocate sanctions inform us that there is a trend towards a policy of collective security. The Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  said that a country could adopt a policy of isolation, or it could negotiate treaties with other countries in order to bring about a. balance of power or it could have collective security. In the present condition of the world, collective security is a will o' the wisp. Collective security is only  another way of expressing the old term, " balance of power ". Great Britain, France and Russia are the principal nations which favour the application of sanctions against Italy, and it is possible that before the trouble is over, they may be mobilized against Italy. If collective security is to become an estab-  lished  fact, the League of Nations must include all the great powers of the world. I do not say that the League of Nations is not a great ideal, or that the policy of collective security is wrong, but I do say that any intensification of the existing antagonisms between nations must necessarily militate against the establishment of collective security. Unfortunately, pledges are sometimes lightly regarded by a nation whose economic interests are affected by them. So long as the present economic system obtains, nations will continue to be antagonistic, and collective security will be unattainable. In order to obtain an economic advantage in Abyssinia, Italy has thrown everything else overboard. The nation has been organized with a view to having its differences with other nations settled, not by peaceful means, but by war. The Labour party believes that Australia should not necessarily follow in the footsteps of Great Britain. On this subject there is a wide divergence of opinion. On the one hand, we are told that Australia, as a sovereign nation, can decide for itself what action it will take in the present dispute; and, on the other hand, it is stated that, as a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations, Australia is immediately involved in any war in which the King engages. We are also told that if the imposition of sanctions leads to war, all the nations which have imposed sanctions must participate in that war. We on this side say that Australia should decide for itself whether it will, or will not, follow Britain in the present dispute. The position would have been much clearer had the Government done its duty with regard to the Statute of Westminster. It has been most difficult to get a clear statement of Australia's pOS: tion; but from a mass of conflicting statements on the subject it appears that if sanctions lead to war, Australia will become involved in the conflict. I realize that the Prime Minister has dismissed  Mr. Hughes  because he said truthfully in his book that sanctions lead to war. As a consequence of being  f rank, he has been incontinently " fired " from the Government. As a Labour man opposed politically to  Mr. Hughes,  I say that in his stand he has the support of a great majority of the Australian people because he has the intestinal stamina to tell the people the truth. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  and various honorable senators have hedged on this question.  Mr. Hughes  for having been courageous and truthful in his book, now occupies one of the back benches. 
The cabinet door has been slammed in his face, and now he is only a private member of the United Australia party for having the temerity to speak his mind. Honorable senators have stated that sanctions will not lead to war. Presumably we shall deal with Italy gently. First we shall stop tanks, guns and ships from being sold to Italy, and then we shall cease lending money to that country, but always gently and inoffensively. Such a statement is so much camouflage. Australia does not export munitions, arms or ship?, nor does it lend money. On the contrary, it always seems to be borrowing. Therefore these sanctions, so far as our part in them is concerned, can have no influence on Italy. I desire to put on record what  Mr. Hughes  says in his book,  Australia and War To-day - 
All effective sanctions must be supported by adequate force. Economic sanctions which do not materially hamper Italy's war-Hike operations arc not likely to deter her from aggression. If, on the other hand, sanction"! that cut off her supplies of food and raw materials and threaten her line of communication, are applied, she will  use  every means at her disposal to compel the nations responsible (o abandon them. 
The implication is that Italy, on reaching a certain limit, will fight, but the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies),  the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and other Cabinet Ministers say that if this should happen the 50 nations applying the sanctions cannot be blamed. They may starve the Italian people and cutoff financial and material supplies, and if Italy should show resentment by force,, the fault will not be theirs. To use pugilistic parlance, 1 might hit a man in his " bread-basket ", and then on the chin and black his eyes, but if he returns the punishment, he is to blame. Like Pontius Pilate, the sanction-imposing nations will wash their hands of all responsibility.  Mr. Hughes  continues - 
Tn the highly strung mental state of the 
Italian people this means resort to force. Italy's air force is amongst the strongest in tho world. Its submarine forces in the Mediterranean are superior to those of Britain. Thousands of tons of British ships pas* through the Mediterranean every day. Malta is 50 miles from Sicily. In half an hour the Italian air squadrons could bomb the docks, dockyards and ships at anchor and rain down death and destruction on the island. Every British ship that attempted to run the gauntlet between Gibraltar and Suez  would  be exposed to great risks. 
The latest press cables tell us that the Assembly of the League has agreed with the Council's finding and adjudged Italy guilty of aggression. Sanctions are to be imposed. Tho nature of these has yet to be determined. But an economic blockade, more or less complete: the restriction of imports from Italy: the cutting off of foreign loans; the lifting of the embargo against export of arms to Abyssinia have been suggested. Unless Italy bows to the decision of the League, these or any sanctions imposed by the League can only be effective to the extent that they are backed by armed force. Assuming that Italy decides to persist in her thrust into Abyssinia, she is not likely to tamely submit to an economic blockade, but will endeavour to break through it. This, of course, means war. 

 Mr. Hughes has paid the penalty for being outspoken. Later on, if some of us commit similar indiscretions, we may be put in gaol under the Crimes Act.  Mr. Hughes  continued - 
It is reported that 50 nations supported the motion which involves the imposition of sanctions. The part the great majority of these will play in the terrible conflict that may ensue is negligible. Wo are told that Haiti and Mexico are behind the League and will fulfil their obligations under the Covenant. But Mussolini will lose no sleep over that. Nor will he be greatly perturbed at M. Mottas's rhetorical declaration that Switzerland will also fulfil her obligations - so far as her policy of "neutrality" permits! Neutrality! In these unsettled days the word is more blessed than Mesopotamia! No doubt many others of the noble band that valiantly stood in the Assembly of the League for the cause of right will find reasons for their absence from the arena of conflict. We must rid ourselves of all illusions. With the exception of France and Russia, the support that all the nations will, or can, give to Britain to enforce sanctions is not worth a snap of the fingers. 
We must pay heed to the opinions of so prominent a man as  Mr. Hughes. 
Because I take notice of his opinions, it does not follow that I shall copy his every action. 
I repeat that because  Mr. Hughes  holds certain views and I quote them, it does not follow that I shall adopt any line of action he may take. But  Mr. Hughes  is an ex-Prime Minister, until recently a Minister in the present Government, and a member of the United Australia party, the Government must think deeply over what he says.  Mr. Hughes  is solidly backing the league of some nations, even to the extent of war, and he has been plucky enough to say it. The Labour party's objection is that the Government has not been similarly frank.  Mr. Lloyd  George, one of the greatest statesmen, a contemporary Prime Minister with  Mr. Hughes,  holds the same opinion as he does. One of the greatest of English editors,  Mr. J.  L. Garvin, has also made a similar statement in regard to sanctions leading to war, and he believes that if the sanctions are carried out as the League expects, war will occur in Europe.  Mr. Garvin  says - 
Any action by Great Britain that would spread the Abyssinian war to Europe would be the utmost crime against God and humanity. 
The Labour party in this chamber and the great mass of workers are influenced by statements made by authorities like  Mr. Lloyd  George,  Mr. Garvin,  and  Mr. Hughes.  It cannot be argued that,because they are supporting the Labour movement in its antagonism to the imposition of sanctions, they are seeking to safeguard their lives and that they are cowards. Many of the soldiers who fought and suffered in the Great War are supporters of the Labour party's attitude. Because we have adopted this attitude to sanctions, honorable senators should not gain the impression that we are a collection of pacifists who would not fight under any circumstances. The Labour movement stands for the adequate defence of Australia, and any man worthy of his name would, if Australia were attacked, defend its shores against the invader. Not only have  Mr. Lloyd  George,  Mr. Garvin,  and  Mr. Hughes  caused in the minds of the people certain disturbing thoughts about the consequences of sanctions, but they have also made other statements which cause the public to feel that there is more behind the present matter than sanctions. Surely  Mr. Lloyd  George would not speak without his book. 
 Mr. Lloyd  George is a man of high character, and his motives cannot be impugned by any honorable senator. He has made certain statements that have had a disturbing influence on the minds of many people who are thinking over this great problem. He went so far as to say that the Prime Minister of France (Monsieur Laval) had made arrangements with Signor Mussolini months ago regarding the impositions of sanctions, and that they had reached an agreement as to the extent to which sanctions should be applied. He says - 
I am not the only one to suspect that. Mussolini has already negotiated these sanctions with the French Premier. 
Ordinary working people, when they read that a man like  Mr. Lloyd  George has made such a statement, begin to ask themselves what is behind it all. Can there be collective security when several major powers are outside the League, and when the most important business of the League itself is transacted behind its back? Only a few months ago Great Britain and Germany came to an understanding with regard to naval strengths, as the result of which Germany is allowed to build up to 35 per cent. of British naval tonnage. This agreement caused a good deal of misgiving on the part of other European powers, and they were not slow to indicate their displeasure.  Mr. Lloyd  George stated, further that these sanctions were arranged to preserve the respectability of the League's authority for future use, and that, following their imposition, Germany and Austria would continue to trade with Italy, so that huge supplies of the world's commodities would be shipped through those countries into Italy. I ask leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Senate adjourned at 4.3 p.m. 
The suppression of illegal betting is  the  function, not of the Commonwealth, but of State police departments. Whenever any infringement of a State law is reported, appropriate action is taken by my department in order thatits facilities may not be used improperly by persons proved guilty of such offences. It is impossible for the Postal Department to discharge functions which properly belong to State police departments. 
I ask the Postmaster-General whether, in view of the fact that  Mr. C.  J. A. Moses, who has been appointed general manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, has  had no  experience of broadcasting except in his capacity as sporting commentator, and that he has been in the Commonwealth for only eight years, it is to bo understood that no Australians are eligible or available for the higher executive positions in the Broadcasting Commission? 
Order ! The honorable gentleman has expressed an opinion concerning the qualifications of the person appointed. He knows that questions addressed to Ministers must not contain expressions of opinion. 
In my view, it is an expression of opinion, and I suggest that the Minister, in his reply, should ignore the reference to the qualifications of the gentleman appointed. 
Appointments to the Australian Broadcasting Commission are not made by the Government. Parliament, as the honorable senator knows, delegated that responsibility to the Broadcasting Commission. The only matters over which the PostmasterGeneral has any control are the salaries of the general manager and the holders of other highly-paid executive positions. 
I am not answering that portion of the honorable senator's question. 
13 the PostmasterGeneral in a position to state if information has been obtained in answer to my question, addressed to the Leader of the Senate on the 31st October, with regard to the sale to British and 
Japanese interests of the iron ore deposit at Koolan Island, Yampi Sound ? 
No reply has yet reached me. I shall have inquiries made, and inform the honorable gentleman as soon as possible. 
The intention is to prevent a monopoly of broadcasting. It is not intended to affect the broadcasting of chain programmes. I have given the trade an assurance to that effect. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister.  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to send the Attorney-General (the Honorable R. G. Menzies) to London to represent the Commonwealth before thePrivy Council when the appeal under section92 of the Constitution from the verdict of the High Court is being heard? 
Is it a fact that  Mr. Menzies  has publicly expressed his agreement with the High Court decision to be appealed against? 
If so, would it not bosafer to secure other legal representation before the Privy Council ? 
The right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answer : - 1, 2 and 3. The question as to the representation of the Commonwealth in the appeal to theP'rivy Council in the dried fruits case will receive consideration if, and when, the 
Privy Council grunts leave to appeal from that decision. I understand that the petition for leave to appeal will not be heard for several weeks. 
asked the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn toa statement reported to have been made by  Mr. Justice  Evatt, that the Commonwealth is responsible for the compensation paid by the Western Australian Government to foreign nationals who suffered injury or loss in the racial rioting at Kalgoorlie? 
If so, in view of this opinion, will the Government consider the desirability of refunding theamount involved to the Government of Western Australia? 
If not, why not? 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
No. 
The responsibility for the preservation of law and order is a matter for Stalegovernments and consequently the Govern men t of Western Australia accepted liability for the payment for loss sustained in the case of the civil disturbances at Kalgoorlie. 
I agree with  Senator Hardy  ; I am not so foolish as to condemn every one simply because one individual takes advantage of the situation to follow his own policy. I have said on a previous occasion in this chamber, that one would not be justified in condemning Christianity, merely because a parson ran away with the wife of one of his parishioners. 
Order ! The honorable senator has used a. rather coarse expression. 
The honorable senator has sufficient command of the English language to enable him to find a better analogy. 
The old diplomacy was far from perfect.. It did not prevent all wars, but it did prevent a great many. It was attuned to the world as it realty is, and not to the world as it might be. If it had been operating to-day it would have been able to prevent the war between Abyssinia and Italy and international relations would have been much more stable. 
I am inclined to agree with  Mr. Hughes  that sanctions will be ineffective unless supported by force. 
According to the press, Germany is anxious that article 16 of the Covenant of the League should be eliminated, so that it could co-operate with France and Britain in the establishment of armed peace in the European camp. 
If the Parliament agrees to this measure, we shall establish a precedent which may involve Australia in every European dispute. We should not follow in the wake of the warring nations of the Old World, and consider it our duty to take sides actively in their many quarrels. The question we have to decide is not merely whether we support the application of sanctions, but, as some honorable senators opposite have admitted, whether we are to follow sanctions to their logical conclusion, and, if necessary, fight to the bitter end. 
In conclusion, I ask honorable senators to give every credit to members of the Labour party, as public men, for speaking sincerely on this matter. We desire to do the best for Australia; we hope that we are right; and we hope that the Commonwealth will not have to suffer any serious consequences as a result of the Government's mistake. We are as good and loyal Australians as anybody in the community, doing what we think is right in the best interests of Australia. While believing in the defence of this country, we consider that Australia, in view of its situation, would be better advised not to be embroiled in any European controversy, and that it should devote its energies to building up a worthy nation within its own boundaries. 
.- I support this bill for the simple reason that, for good or evil, Australia has been a member of the League of Nations from its inception. If there has been one section of the community that has been almost fanatical in its support of the League, it has been the Labour party. When the League has been dealing with matters of world importance, no organization has been more ready to send delegates overseas to participate in the discussions. When any criticism of the League has been offered by members of Parliament or by public men, the foremost to champion it have been members of the Labour party. Yet on the first occasion that the League finds if necessary to give effect to the Covenant the members of the Australian Labour party are shirking their obligations by declining to support the undertaking which Australia, in common with the other members of the League, has given. On Friday last, when  Senator Brown  said that he was opposed to the imposition of sanctions, I asked, by interjection, if the honorable senator believed that Australia should withdraw from the League. He declined to answer. I now ask the honorable senator if he believes that Australia should d'odge its obligations by withdrawing from the League? 
If honorable senator.? opposite have studied the Covenant and followed the work undertaken at numerous conferences of the League, they must know that provision is made for the imposition of sanctions against  any  member of the League which does not comply with the Covenant.  Senator Brown,  as a former champion of the League, knows that if a member nation commits a breach of the Covenant, it can be declared an aggressor and punished as such. Yet while alleging to support the principles of the League,  Senator Brown  and those with whom he is associated suggest that on the first occasion the League finds it necessary to act Australia should not honour its obligations. From one end of Australia to the other, sections of the Labour party have advocated that Australia should not support the imposition of sanctions. There may be some justification for opposition from those who have opposed the League ot who have been only lukewarm supporters; but every member of this chamber, including honorable senators opposite, who has championed this organization, should, now that it is compelled to act, support it. Honorable senators opposite know what membership of the League implies, and must have realized long ago that a time would come when the League would find it necessary to act against an aggressor. Are we to believe that during the period in which honorable senators opposite have supported the League they have been giving only lip service to it and that they intended all along that when support was expected Australia should shirk its responsibilities? Has their support been given merely to allow delegates to partake in joy-rides to Geneva ? When trouble arises, are we, as  Senator Sampson  would say, to retire te our "funk-holes"? 
Exactly. No party in Australia derives greater strength from uniform action on the part of its members than does the Labour party. Woe betide the member of that party who acts contrary to a decision of a majority reached in the caucus room. Any nation which for sixteen years has supported the League of Nations and now refuses to honour its obligations has committed an act of international " scabbing ". Honorable senators opposite who speak so  freely  of "scabbing" in connexion with political and industrial matters should support th" action which Australia as a signatory of the Covenant is taking. I have never been an enthusiastic supporter of the 
League, but I believe that Australia, having supported the principle of the  League for  the last sixteen years, should not be so cowardly as to attempt to evade its obligations. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  who accused the Government and its supporters of warmongering said that we desire to plunge this country into war. Several members of the Government and many of its supporters have been on active service, and knowing the horrors of war are not likely to assist in involving Australia in another war if it can be honorably avoided. The Council of the League of Nations having declared that one of its members had committed an act of unprovoked aggression against a fellow member steps must be taken to impose penalties upon the aggressor. If  Senator Brown  really believes that the probable effect of the application of sanctions against Italy will be an extension of the war he should carry his argument to its logical conclusion, and advocate that Australia should immediately withdraw from the League of Nations. But he does not go so far as that. Apparently he considers that we should retain -our membership while things arc going smoothly, but immediately difficulty is encountered, other nations may deal with it; Australia should evade its responsibility. 
That is the only conclusion possible from the remarks of the honorable senator. 
We all deeply regret the present unsettled state of world affairs. It is deplorable that two member States should be at war despite all the efforts of the League to avert hostilities. I am one of those who believe that the League will never be in a position to discharge its obligations to the full until all the major nations are members. 
It is, and it is deplorable that Italy, after warlike preparations extending over several months should, bv an act of aggression, so profoundly disturb the foreign policies of other members of the League as to make possible another world war. WhenI visited Italy about 25 years ago, the people of that country were facing extraordinary difficulties due to dislocation of industries and political unrest. It was my privilege to revisit that great country in 1930, and again early in the present year when, as a member of the Empire Party Delegation, I touched at Italian ports on my way to Great Britain. I was greatly impressed by the remarkable changes for the better in 1930, and I realized the extraordinary work of re-construction that had been carried out under the direction of Signor Mussolini. There had been a notable improvement of the living conditions of the people, a better type of public buildings had been erected inthe more important cities and towns, and the harbour facilities at Naples and other ports had been brought up to date. One cannot spend any time in Italy to-day without acknowledging that Mussolini has been a tremendous driving force and power for good to the Italian nation. It is, therefore, regrettable that, during the last few months, he should have marred his splendid record by action which has plunged his country into a war, the consequences of which to the world, as well as to Italy, cannot be foreseen. 1 am, however, hopeful that the imposition, at the instance of the League of Nations, of economic and financial sanctions will force the Italian people to realize that their ruler is out of step with the rest of the world. ' It is hoped that the action taken by the League will eventually lead to a cessation of hostilities. 

 Senator Brown had something to say in criticism of the League for not having prevented Germany and Italy from rearming. It is easy to criticize. I should like  Senator Brown  to indicate what action the League could have taken to prevent Germany from re-arming, because Germany, it must be remembered had left the League. What power could the League, or individual nations like Great Britain have exerted to prevent Mussolini from converting Italy into what is virtually an armed camp, or to prevent France from increasing its military strength by an alteration of its conscription law ? The only way in which any individual nation could prevent another nation from doing any of these things would be to declare war and apply military force.  Senator Brown  has told us that he is against war, and is opposed to the application of economic or financial sanctions against Italy because of the risk of war, which such action entails. Yet, almost in the next breath, the honorable senator criticizes the League of Nations and Great Britain for not having prevented Germany or Italy from rearming. 
I am not responsible for any statement that may have been made by the right honorable member for North Sydney. I ask what power other than armed force could have been brought to bear by the League of Nations, or by any individual nation, to prevent any other Member State from increasing its expenditure on defence. Let me remind  Senator Brown  that the newspapers this morning report that the Commonwealth defence vote is to be increased this year by £2,000,000. Does the honorable senator approve of that increase? 
If the honorable senator thinks that the League of Nations should have prevented Germany from re-arming, does he also consider that it should take some action to prevent Australia from increasing its defence vote by £2,000,000? Does he think that a Member State should protest to the Council of the League" against this proposal by Australia? 
Does not the honorable senator concede that the governments of other countries also believe in adequate defence measures? 
Does not the honorable senator realize that as Australia is a signatory to the League Covenant, what Australia does in the way of defence might well be the business of the League, just as Australia- . accepts its share of responsibility for what other Member States might do? There was no protest from  Senator Brown's  party when Australia became a signatory to the League Covenant. 
Then apparently the honorable senator's argument is this: "While things are going along smoothly and while there is no prospect of trouble we shall continue our membership of the League of Nations, pay our. subscription regularly, send our delegates to the Assembly and to conferences of the International Labour Office, but whenever there is the slightest risk of danger, Australia must take no part in League affairs. 
I agree with the statement made by the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  on Friday to which exception was taken by honorable senators opposite, that for Australia to shirk its responsibility in connexion with the application of sanctions against Italy would savour of cowardice, in view of the fact that for sixteen years we have sent our delegates to Geneva to discuss with the. representatives of other Member Skates measures to promote world peace. 
In his speech on Friday the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  spoke of a land-hungry world seeking for expansion, and of Australia as an empty continent. I invite the honorable senator to consider what those landhungry nations would think of us if we shirked our responsibility on the very first occasion when honouring of it may expose us to risk. I agree with the honorable senator that this empty continent is one of the richest prizes that tempts a land-hungry world. Therefore, we should be steadfast in our resolve to stand by our partners in the League at a time when some show of firmness may have the desired result, namely, the maintenance of world peace. I emphasize, also, that if we are to do what is expected of us, we must remain part and parcel of the British Empire and stand solidly behind the Mother Country in this crisis. 

 Senator Collings deplored the fact that Italy was attacking Abyssinia, but. admitted that it was in pursuance of Mussolini's desire for territorial expansion.  Senator Collings  pointed out that this attack by Italy had arisen from the fact that Italy's increase of population demanded expansion of its territory, and, in the next breath, he claimed that Australia should take no action to prevent Italy from invading and conquering another country with the object of establishing there a colonial empire. Because of Australia's peculiar position, we should be the first to stand beside Great, Britain and its supporters in this dispute to  prevent Italy from walking into  Abyssinia and taking what territory it needs for colonization purposes. I reiterate that, because of the temptation this country presents to a nation bent on acquiring colonies, Australia should be the first to protest against predatory action on the part of any nation. I believe that there has been much provocation in the present dispute. A number of frontierincidents occurred between Ethiopians and Italians, and Italy apparently had certain grounds for complaint against Abyssinia. The report laid on the table of the Library a fortnight ago by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  in which the Italian delegate's case for Italy and Abyssinia's reply to it are set out, contains convincing proof that international trouble has been smouldering on those frontiers for many months past. However, no one for a moment would agree with the methods adopted by Italy to settle the dispute. If I had any criticism to level against the League of Nations, it would be that for six or seven months it allowed ItalY. in full view of the nations of the world, to make preparations for this attack. When I passed through the Suez Canal early in March last, I saw troopship after troopship conveying from Italy to Abyssinia, troops, ammunition, fodder, and implements of war. Thus, month after month, under the very eyes of the League, Italy prepared for this attack. I believe that, when this trouble is settled - and I hope peace will be established soon - -the League will have so to organize itself as to enable it to take even stronger action in. international disputes than it is taking in the present instance; it will require to be able to prevent such disputes from developing to the extent that the ItaloAbyssinian trouble has developed. Because of tho advanced stage which has been reached in the present conflict, tremendous difficulties will have to be surmounted before peace call be arranged. Already Italy lias captured thousands of square miles of Ethiopian territory, and when the time comes to consider peace terms, Abyssinia, no doubt, will demand compensation for the losses it has suffered, at the hands of Italy. On the other hand, it will be difficult to persuade Italy to relinquish any of the territory it has already captured. If the League is to be truly effective in promoting the peace of the world, it must be enabled to deal effectively with disputants before hostilities actually commence. I repeat that, because of the preparations made by Italy for this conflict, every one was aware that an attack on Abyssinia, was impending. It was obvious that Italy was not transporting hundreds of thousands of troops to the borders of Abyssinia simply for the purpose of protecting neighbouring Italian colonies. Unless the League is enabled to enforce its will immediately upon a nation that commits a breach of the Covenant, it will rapidly disintegrate. I remind honorable senators that many of the smaller members of the League joined the League expressly for their own protection.. They realized that, if they remained outside such a body as the League, there would be nothing to prevent stronger neighbours, if the latter so desired, from overwhelming them. They joined the League much from the same motives as actuate a person in taking out an insurance policy; they wanted to ensure that they would be protected in the event of any attack being made upon them by a more powerful nation. It must be a sad thought for the weaker members of the League that one of their number, Abyssinia, is being invaded by one of the stronger members of the League. Under these circumstances one' can readily understand why tho smaller members of the League are unanimously standing behind Britain, France  and Russia in the imposition of these sanctions. 
Members of the Opposition have been inclined to question the diplomacy of Great Britain in this dispute. Whether we think that British diplomacy has been wise or not, we must recognize that the Mother Country, throughout the history of the League, has placed all its cards on the table, and all its efforts have been for the promotion of world peace. It has been prepared to take risks itself in order to achieve that object; it has remained disarmed in the face of an armed world, thus giving an example to other nations of what they should do in the interests of world peace. In its endeavours to defend the smaller nations of the world it has never paused to consider what nation its efforts in that direction might offend. Because of its record as a member of the League, I would be one of the last to question any action that Great Britain has taken in the present negotiations. I .hope .it will not be long before the efforts of the League bring about a cessation of hostilities. "Whatever mistakes the League has made, and whatever may be our individual opinions of the effectiveness of the methods it has adopted to restore peace, let us remember that those nations which are members of the League at the present time are sincerely striving for world peace. Britain, Russia, France, and the smaller members of the League have only one purpose, and that is to stop the present hostilities as soon as possible, and prevent them from extending. My earnest hope is that this measure will play at least a small part in restoring peace. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  put the case in favour of the passage of this measure very fairly and clearly before honorable senators. I regret that members of the Opposition have approached it as though we were discussing a declaration of war. When the League was formed many of us had grave doubts regarding the success that would attend its efforts, but all of us were at least unanimous in the hope that it would accomplish its main object - the maintenance of the peace of the world. As a citizen of Australia, I claim that we are doubly bound to the League: first, as an integral part of the British Empire, and, secondly, because we had the honour to be a signatory to that notable agreement. However, to-day there are murmurings among many Australians, who would like Australia to withdraw from the League. These people apparently are prepared to refuse to carry out the solemn obligation to which this country subscribed in that agreement. If we adopted such a course we would prove conclusively that all our gestures and efforts in the cause of peace, and all our talk of high international ideals at the time of the formation of the League, and since, have been only lip service. In passing this measure, we shall place on our statute-book legislation unprecedented in the history of this country. Whenever previously legislation of this character has been enacted it has been for the institution of a blockade by nations which, at the time, were involved in war. On this occasion, while they arc still at peace, certain nations are striving, by the imposition of economic and financial sanctions, to compel the belligerents to settle their dispute by other than armed force. 
 But the war is on. 
I shall not deal at length with the bill, or elaborate upon the circumstances which necessitated its introduction. Suffice it to say that, the League of Nations has been designed to support and strengthen the greatest and noblest conception of the human mind. The League was born in a sea of human suffering and it had not long been in existence before it was called upon to nurse and tend a sick and tottering civilization. Unfortunately, like all man-made things, the League has made mistakes; but who will say that those mistakes were of sufficient magnitude to warrant its destruction ? 
Then why does the Labour party adopt an attitude towards the League which, if followed generally would inevitably smash the League and destroy the ideals which it has set up? 
All sections of the British Empire, and a vast majority of all the signatories to the Covenant of the League, agree that the League is entitled to support in the stand it has taken in the dispute between Italy and Abyssinia. It lias remained for a small group of "little islanders," known as the Australian Labour party, to take a stand which would, if generally accepted, destroy thi1 ideal that the world has set up. Other sections of British people have looked into the future and seen civilization tottering on the brink of an inferno, and have pinned their faith to the League of Nations as the only hope for peace. The Austraiian Labour party has also looked into the future, but, with blurred vision, it can see nothing but the Australian Labour party. It is out of its depth and floundering in a sea of hopeless bewilderment. 
During the sixteen years that the League of Nations has been in existence, it has had the undivided rapport of the Australian Labour party, whose representatives in this Parliament have not objected to considerable sums of money being voted towards its support. 
Why does the Labour party now abandon the policy it has followed for many years ? It would appear that its support of the League in the past has been only lip service. The Covenant of the League is not new, and the Labour party should have known long before the present trouble between Italy and Abyssinia developed, what the Covenant involved. Strangely enough, only recently has the Labour party learned that sanctions may have serious consequences. 
Now that the League is on its trial, now that it has reached the cross roads in its history, now that the sincerity of the signatories to its Covenant is put  to  the test, and now that the worth of its true friends is revealed, this is the time when the Labour party chooses  to  adopt an attitude which, if generally adopted would mean the destruction of the League. I remind the Opposition that the destruction of the League means the destruction of its subsidiary organizations also. 
What the ultimate result of the present crisis will be is a matter for conjecture. The Opposition may be right in its contention that the action taken by the League must inevitably lead  to  war; but, on the other  hand, it may be wrong. We all sincerely hope that the conflict will not extend. Time only can tell. The League came into . existence in order to prevent war. Failing to prevent war, it seeks next to limit and localize the conflict. On this occasion the League did fail to prevent war between Italy and Abyssinia. It is now taking the next step and is attempting to limit the war and bring it to an early conclusion. Although this bill has been introduced to that end, the Opposition has been loud in condemning it on the ground that sanctions must inevitably lead to war. 
Time only will tell whether  Sir John  Latham was right. The fact remains that when the League Covenant was prepared it was not thought that sanctions would inevitably lead to war. Had that been the belief at the time provision would have been made in the Covenant for financial, economic and military sanctions to apply simultaneously. The Covenant, however, provides for the gradual application of sanctions. Whether financial and economic  sanctions will be effective is, I admit, a matter of conjecture. 
Members of the Opposition owe their election to this Parliament to the acceptance of. the principle of sanctions in industrial affairs. 
I admire trade unions, and agree with the principle underlying them. But I submit that if sanctions are right in industrial affairs, they are right in international affairs also. 
It has been said that the League of Nations did not apply sanctions against Japan when that nation invaded China a few years ago. Everyone admits that on that  occasion  the League made a mistake. 
All man-made organizations make mistakes, and the League has not been an exception. The result of that mistake is seen in Mussolini's attitude towards the League to-day. Is it not clear that the failure of the League to take action against Japan inspired Italy to attack Abyssinia ? There are good grounds for believing that before another bully nation contemplates an attack against a weaker nation, it will have a different conception of the League from that of Mussolini, who thought that as the League had failed once in its duty, it would fail again. He thought that every party and every nation was of the same kidney as the Australian Labour party; but he has slipped badly. 
He has a long way to go yet, and time alone will tell whether or not his troops will prevail. The Opposition has made a strong point of the failures of the' League, but has not had one word of commendation to say regarding its many successes. Honorable senators would do well to ask themselves what is to take the place of the League if that body be destroyed. The Opposition has -not told us how to avert the calamity that confronts civilization. It shows a willingness to throw away the substance, and to grasp at the shadow.  Senator Collings  touched upon many matters, but did not deal with the provisions of the bill. He spoke of the horrors of war; but is not the last great conflict fresh in our memories? What is required is advice as. to how to avert another such disaster. What would the honorable senator set up -in place of tho League of Nations ? He says, in effect : " Away with the League !" 
I tried to read something else into the speeches by Senators Collings and Brown, but the only inference which I could draw from their remarks was that they wished to smash the League. They said: "Away with the League! We do not want it." 
J said that the only inference to be drawn from the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition was that he meant : " Away with the League !" 
The honorable senator read extracts from certain newspapers, some of which are reputable. He particularly quoted at some length the remarks of a writer who, in  1921,  deplored the fact that there was a race of armaments, and appealed to the leaders of thought in order that some steps might be taken to check it. The League of Nations had its birth in the year  1919,  and although we had hoped for better results than have been obtained by it, its task  ha3  been exceedingly difficult Yet it has come through its ordeal fairly well. What result other than a race of armaments can be expected if we smash the League? What would the Opposition give us in its place? The alternative offered by the Labour party to the collective security obtained through the League is a policy of " adequate defence," but exactly what that term means has never been explained. 
We have both because, in my opinion, there are traitors to the League itself. While there are traitors abroad and traitors in Australia 
If the cap fits, I do not desire to prevent the honorable senator from wearing it. There is sufficient weight of testimony on that point without having to quote opinions such as that given by the honorable member for Bourke  (Mr. Blackburn.) 
The bill states definitely that no financial assistance of any kind shall be given to Italy, yet the Leader of the Opposition objects to it. The Labour party would, presumably, allow all  possible financial assistance to be given to Italy. It would not prevent any individual or society from forwarding money to that country to assist it in its attack on Abyssinia. The Opposition says that it does not want the bill. The only deduction to be drawn from that declaration is that it is prepared to help Italy in its war  on  Abyssinia. The Opposition goes even further than that. The bill prevents the export of arms to Italy, and as the Labour party objects to the bill, ii must be willing to allow any armament  or  munition firm to send warlike material to Italy. The bill prohibits imports into Australia from Italy. That is a very proper provision, because the money which Italy would receive for its goods would be used in the purchase of warlike material. The Labour party objects to the provision, and, therefore, says, in effect: "Let' Italian imports come in. With the proceeds Italy can purchase the warlike material it requires in its attack on Abyssinia." 
-I was merely pointing out that the object of the bill is to curb the actions of Italy by the application of financial and ecomonic sanctions. As the Labour party opposes the bill, the only inference to be drawn from its attitude is that it is prepared to help Italy against Abyssinia. 
Dein has placed a wrong construction on a portion of his speech, and since he has apologized to the Senate, I am prepared to accept his apology in that form. 
I regret that the Leader of the Opposition has adopted his present attitude. I did not reflect on him personally, but on the judgment of the Labour party, which' is prepared to do what, in my opinion, would amount to assisting Italy in its attack on Abyssinia. I agree wholeheartedly with the course of action taken by the League of Nations to hamper the operations of Italy. The bill gives me an opportunity to register my protest against the Italian attitude, and I regret that every section in this chamber does not stand behind the Government and the League by supporting this legislation. 

 Senator Collings has drawn my attention to a book written by the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes),  from which  Senator Brown  quoted extensively in regard to sanctions. If he endorses the sentiments expressed by the writer, he will have no alternative but to cast his vote in support of this bill as did the right honorable member referred to. I trust that the regrettable war in Abyssinia will soon be terminated, and that it will be unnecessary for the Government to bring down further legislation on this subject. 
Little did we in Western Australia reck about ten years ago when we formed the League of Nations Union there that we should live to hear such an awful verbal exhibition as that to which we have been treated in this Parliament by members of the Labour party. Amongst the most prominent founders of that union, the members of which held varied political beliefs, were gentlemen eminent in the Labour organizations. Now that the first concrete effort made by the League in the interests of peace affects our own nation, we find that the opposition to the application of the sanctions is practically confined to prominent members of the Labour party. The only conclusion that can be drawn from this situation is that the members of the Opposition are only fair-weather friends of this instrument for world peace. The League itself it the only protective barrier which exists at present to reduce the risk of war. The barrier may contain holes and be weak in places, but the fact remains that the League is an active, instrument and the only alternative to resort to the clash of arms. To-day, any action that may possibly weaken the prop, should be avoided. To abandon the League would be to invite trouble, because it is the only means by which friction between the two belligerent nations can be reduced. The nations of the world, with few exceptions, have accepted the fact that  Italy  is the aggressor, and, if we are not prepared to apply the conditions laid down in tins bill, we must continue our trade relations with Italy. Perhaps the Opposition would like to see the Broken Hill Proprietary Limited works turning out munitions or military accoutrements to be consigned to Italy for use against the poor unfortunate Abyssinians. As  Senator Dein  has pointed out, if the Labour party votes against this bill, it will declare, in effect, that our present trade relations with Italy .shall continue,, and that we shall supply it with materials for war. I cannot understand the Labour party's present attitude, because it has applied the expression "sanction" throughout its political activities. People are living in "Western Australia to whom the Labour party applied sanctions in 1917, because of their political beliefs, and a political vendetta continues against them. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Yes, a vendetta not only against the alleged culprit, but also against his family. 
It is a question, not of peace, but of the application of sanctions or restrictions, and in the case that I have in mind the restriction related to personal liberty. I am glad to note that the Federal Labour party is not expressing the opinion of the great majority of the individuals in the Labour movement. 'So far as Australia is concerned there is no war, and no declaration of members of the Opposition can convince me that there will be a war between Italy and Australia. In my  opinion  the Labour party has overlooked the point that if you scratch an 
Australian, you will find a Briton. The Parliamentary Labour, party is not interpreting the attitude of the moral courage of me Labour movement generally throughout Australia. Its political representatives are giving a one-sided view of sanctions, and are not speaking for that large concourse of Labour voters who are British to the backbone. The Labour Premier of Western Australia  (Mr. Collier)   is a believer in the League, and still considers that by the imposition of sanctions Australia can contribute something towards easing the present military situation in Europe. Other prominent Labour men hold similar opinions, and in this regard I propose to quote the family bible of Labour members of Parliament, the  Labor Daily.  As recently as the 20th and the 22nd August last, that eminent mouthpiece of Labour politics published this sentiment- 
Another conflict similar to that of 1914-18 is unthinkable, but the rape of Abyssinia would represent a direct challenge by Italy to the entire system of collective security that must be met by effective application of economic and financial sanctions. 
That opinion does not emanate from any so-called " die-hard- tory '' newspaper. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Gladly, but I doubt very much if his opinion can be altered. 

 - I hope not, although he may think I am. But the fact remains that the expression is to be found in the  Labor Daily,  the organ of the Labour party in&gt; New South Wales. Why the Labour party should attempt to overthrow thu solemn Covenant of the League, I cannot, understand. The very hand which signed on behalf of Australia that solemn declaration - the League Covenant - signed another' solemn declaration, the sugar agreement. The gentleman whom  Senator Brown  is so fond of mentioning in this debate, the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes, signed both of those instruments, and I suggest that if we can repudiate one, we can repudiate the other. Parham that would not suit honorable senators from Queensland! 
On that occasion perhaps  Senator Brown  will refrain from mentioning the name of  Mr. Hughes.  Out of the wealth of opinions expressed on this bill one thing stands out prominently in the present situation. I could not better express it than in the language used by the German Government recently when it paid a very high compliment to Britain, for having regained the leadership of the League, which was formerly held by France. I emphasize that this compliment has been paid to Great Britain by a recent enemy, for the work it has done in trying to maintain peace. This occasion should not be allowed to pass without mention being made of the excellent work that the British Minister for League Affairs,  Mr. Anthony  Eden, has performed at Geneva on behalf of world peace. He has striven for long months to find a way for the nations to compose their differences, and has been a master of patience; to his untiring efforts the people of Australia should pay tribute. 
Another aspect which has appealed to me both before and during the discussion on this bill is the need for Australia to be prepared for any debacle such as that contemplated by the Opposition. Should its security be menaced Australia itself will require all the help the world can offer. Unfortunately, during the last few years Australians have not realized the low ebb at which the defences of this country stand. To the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes I would pay the compliment that at least he has done much in the last fortnight by the publication or his now famous book to cause the public to realize the acuteness of the. danger to which Australia is exposed through its lack of defence. I hope that this will be a reminder to the Australian people that it is high time to ensure that the Commonwealth is adequately defended - and defended by ourselves, without leaning too heavily, as we have done in the past, or. 
Britain and the British Navy. We have a duty to our people which wemust shoulder, and i trust that, as a result of the discussion on this bill, we shall be a step nearer to the day when we shall be adequately protected. The defence policy of Australia should be revised, starting from the bottom, with the re-introduction of compulsory military training. The discipline and the training under that system were the finest that we have ever had in Australia, and until it is reintroduced, we shall encounter considerable difficulty in building up adequate defences. I commend the bill, becauseI feel sure that it will contribute towards a peaceful settlement of the European situation. It is an honest endeavour to carry out our solemn obligations as a consistent member of the League of Nations from its inception. The League is on trial, and we should do our share to help it in its time of trouble. Unfortunately, the Opposition seems to base its attitude on the two alleged failures of the League, in connexion with the Gran Chaco and Manchukuo wars. The former, as the Leader of the Senate mentioned, was an old and musty family quarrel, and could be ignored. The position in Manchukuo was entirely different because that country is nearer to Australia. Perhaps our friends in opposition would have liked the League to have intervened in that instance, and to have applied all kinds of economic financial and military sanctions to Japan, in which case they would be in a very sorry position to-day. The League may have failed in that it did not interfere in the Manchukuo dispute, but as an Australian I thank God that it did not.  1  commend the bill to honorable senators and express the hope that it may help to calm the European turmoil. 
I do not propose to traverse at length the amazing statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  in speaking on this bill, butI must say that I was pained and grieved at the extraordinary doctrines which  he  enunciated. If I deduce his meaning aright his remarks were pitiable and pathetic. The honorable senator said that because Australia is a sparsely populated country it could not defend itself andshouldbe kept out of these troubles. 
I dispute the contention of the Leader of the Opposition that Australia cannot defend itself. Australia can, and will, defend itself if given an opportunity to do so. Australia is not the small and insignificant nation that the Leader of the Opposition would have us believe that it is. In this country to-day we have at least 2,000,000 men of fighting age. To the pathetic and pitiable doctrine that we must in all circumstances keep out of trouble I do not subscribe. When the honorable senator says that Australia should not participate in any European war, I ask him what we would think or say if Great Britain declared that it would not help Australia in the event of an invasion. We stand together or we fall together. During the Great War, Australia was defended in Gallipoli, Belgium, France and Palestine, just as surely as if our trenches had been cut across Commonwealthavenue in Canberra. We can, and will, defend Australia. Universal training is an adequate, necessary and effective means, and what is more it is truly democratic. I. do not subscribe for a moment to the doctrine thatwe are incapable of defending ourselves. Possibly if it came to a fight with tongues some honorable senatorswould be regarded as champions. We have shown that Ave are capable of playing a man's part. Kipling says that - 
No easy hopes or lies 
Shall bring us to our goal: 
But iron sacrifice 
Of body, will and soul. 
Thosewho think only of material things, of ample food, comfortable clothing, and ease, should study carefully those lines. The Leader of the Opposition almost made me weep, so fearful was the picture he painted. The inference to be drawn from the honorable senator's remarkswas that some members of the Government are anxious to send men overseas to be butchered and maimed. He said that men weresent overseas during the Great War. No Australians were sent overseas to serve in that conflict. We were not sent;wewent of our own free will.I trust that I shall be pardoned if I intro duce a personal note. One of my kiddies was born on the day that war was declared. I went overseas when hewas a little chap three months old, and I did not see him again for several years. Do you think I wanted to go ? Politicians, writers, pedants, students and others may argue until the crack of doom as to the cause of the greatwar. I can give the reason why over 300,000 Australians felt it their duty to offer all they had, by putting their poor, frail bodies up against the mighty armies of a great disciplined power lusting forworld domination. Stripped of all camouflage, humbug and make-believe, the reasonwhy wewent was thatwe believed that mightwas not right, and never will be while free men inhabit the earth. That iswhywewent. We realized that if might were greater than right, Australia would not be safe. Wewanted Australia to remain a country inwhich men and women may live their lives according to their lights, so long as in so doing they do not inflict hardship upon others. That is whywe went. It is a false doctrine that we can repudiate our pledged word, act dishonorably, and still retain our selfrespect and the respect of other nations. 
Hadwe been living in the good old days, or bad old days, whicheverwe may term them, the conflict between Italy and Abyssiniawould not have produced an international crisis. Abyssinia would have been invaded like many other African countries have been invaded, and there would have been just another colonialwar. Britain and France would have asserted their rights under the Tripartite Treaty of 1906, and Italywould have given the same assurance that it has now given that it would respect those rights. In the olden days this conflictwould not have concerned the world at large, but it does concern it to-day. Why? Because there is a League of Nations. By making the conflict itsown concern the League has made it the vital concern of all of its members. It is the League that has transformed what would have' been a remote and local affair into a near and general problem. That being so, according to the Leader of the Opposition, we should be better off without the League. Has the League really had a chance? It emerged from the Great War when there seemed to be one supreme necessity - the prevention of another world war. Admittedly the League has met with some failures. It failed to avert or stop war in the Far East and in South America. It failed to avert war between Italy and Abyssinia; but it is now doing its best to prevent it from continuing. In any hostile criticism of the League let us be just. The Far East is a long way off. To have brought pressure to bear upon a great power such as Japan, which has absolute command of its own home waters, would have been exceedingly difficult, and very dangerous, especially to Great Britain, which has so much at stake in the Far East. Many argue that the war in the Far East could, and ought, to have been stopped by the League. I am not saying that those who so argued are wrong. I merely say that the effort would have been difficult and very dangerous. Moreover, we have no means to judge with any degree of certainty whether it would or would not have been possible to coerce the Japanese. The war in South America was fought between two relatively weak States - Paraguay and Bolivia. It was so far off and in a region so inaccessible that again interference by. the League would have been extremely difficult. There is also the Monroe doctrine and it is very doubtful whether the United States of America, or the South American States, would have wished any interference by nations of the Old World. Now there is war much closer at hand  between  two nations, both of which are members of the League. One is in Europe and, to use a venerable term, belongs to the modern " concert of European powers " - a concert which gives the  League  whatever reality it may possess. We cannot say that on this occasion, it was physically impossible for the League to have prevented war between Italy and Abyssinia. But would not coercive measures be so difficult and so dangerous that Europe might lose more than it would gain? That is a matter on which opinions may differ. Everything that could be done through conciliation and arbitration has been or is being done. Oan the terms, or, rather, the general directions of the Covenant be enforced with full vigour if gentler methods fail? We do not know yet, but we may know before long. Great Britain most certainly does not desire conflict with Italy, although the happenings of a few weeks ago would suggest that Mussolini  believed  that it did. His threats and boasts about Malta and Gibraltar were really responsible for the strengthening of the British naval forces in the Mediterranean, by the addition of several vessels belonging to the Home fleet. 
The League is either a reality or it if not. The Covenant is either a serious treaty, which has to be honoured by those who signed it, or it is an expression of amiable and impotent idealism. The collective system is either an effective instrument for the preservation of peace, or it is an empty formula. When the League was established, it was assumed that the United States of America would be a member of it. I recall very clearly the atmosphere and temper in Paris when the terms of the Peace Treaty were being considered, because I had a job of work to do in Paris just at that time. 1 witnessed the arrival of the German, Austrian and Turkish delegates, and I have a vivid recollection of the picturesque Abyssinian delegates who came to Paris to congratulate the late  President  Woodrow Wilson on the success of the peace negotiations, and also, no doubt, to do what was possible to prevent their country from being " gobbled-up  " by some of the victors. I clearly remember that it was taken for granted then that the United States of America would be u member of the proposed League of Nations. That assumption proved to be wrong. 
More was expected of the League than was politically possible, though in the circumstances of the times, this was not surprising, because it was forgotten that if, and when, moral suasion failed, there was no provision for the application, by the League, of force to ensure the observance of its covenants. This may be one of the reasons why, in some directions, the League has failed to fulfil its real purpose. We should, however, remember that the League represented an international revolution - one of the greatest in history; that it is, and was, a great experiment, and, like all  experiments must develop by trial and error. Only there must be a time limit to its experimental working, or if there is no limit, we must simply face the facts and draw our own conclusions. 
If the League goes on shrinking - unfortunately in recent years it has shrunk somewhat - until it fades out of existence, we must not go on pretending that it exists as an effective instrument for the maintenance of international peace. Least of all can we allow it to be distorted into the opposite - something that while never averting trouble, will always drag us into it. 
The quarrel between Italy and Abyssinia is a real and severe test in the sense that the far-eastern and South American conflicts we're not. The British Commonwealth of Nations is resolved to carry out to the full the obligations that are laid down in the Covenant. But it cannot do so alone. Indeed, it is not its business to do so alone, for it is the essence of these obligations that they shall be collective. 
I desire now to refer briefly to the attitude of the Australian Labour party to the imposition of sanctions. Labour's policy appears to me to be one of funk and dishonour. I can place no other interpretation upon what I have read of speeches delivered by Labour leaders, and what I have heard from the mouths of Labour's representatives in this chamber. Unless as a nation we are to be dishonored, wo must honour our solemn word and respect our obligations. A friend with whom I discussed Labour's attitude in this crisis suggested an analogy which I think is very apt. He reminded me that in industrial disputes a trade union calls a strike to secure redress of the grievances of its members. In furtherance of its policy it imposes sanctions against the employer. Any member of the union who, because of his circumstances, or because he fears to antagonize his employer, refuses to strike, is branded as a "scab ", and for the remainder of his life " sanctions " are imposed against him by his fellow workers. I remind our Labour friends that Australia is a member of a union - the League of Nations - and, as such, it must loyally support its fellow members in the course agreed upon to ensure world peace. Is Australia to become an international "scab"? God forbid! I would sooner see this country invaded and go down a defeated nation than that it should be said of its people, whose virility was tested some twenty years ago, that they have no sense of honour; that their word is not worth a snap of the fingers ; that whenever trouble looms on the international horizon, Australia " scabs " on its fellow members of the League of Nations. And not only " scabs ", but boasts about it because in this debate we have heard opponents of the Government's policy fighting valiantly with their mouths, suggesting that this country should repudiate its pledges through fear of the result. 
The League is above all an instrument of mediation and conciliation. The Covenant does not provide any specific coercive measures except under article 16 which can only be invoked to stop a war that has actually begun. Even when, despite the efforts of the League to avert hostilities, war has broken out, it cannot be seriously argued that the League is a failure. The question to be considered is whether the League can continuously and persistently arbitrate in this conflict. Can it exercise a certain, even if limited, control over its members and more especially over Italy and Abyssinia? Can it exert influence, or even a pressure, that will induce or compel them to negotiate an early peace? And when negotiations have begun, can the League determine or help to determine the nature of the peace so that the terms may not be too vindictive or impossible? To these questions we have as yet no answer, but the answer which coming events will give will make it possible for the powers and for us to judge, for the first time since the League was established, whether it is a reasonably useful instrument for the maintenance of international peace. I wish that this Parliament had unanimously and wholeheartedly approved the bill, because I, for one, cannot see how we can, without loss of face, without suffering dishonour, refuse 'to support sanctions against Italy. 
. -We have been listening to some heroics from  Senator Sampson,  of whose sincerity no member of this  chamber entertains any doubt. I do not begrudge the honorable gentleman the opportunity which this debate has afforded him to say what is in his mind, because he has been a soldier, and, I believe that every man who. irrespective of his nationality, offers his life to his country, should be honoured. But there is always the other side to an argument, and it will be my purpose to support my colleagues in the Labour party in stating the case for our side. I wish particularly to refer to the attitude of our opponents who are not represented in this debate - the armament rings. the economic concessionaires, and the whole weight of colonial enterprises which the capitalist nations have around their  necks.  Many different opinions have been expressed on the point' as to whether sanctions will lead to war. The Labour party, as its main argument against sanctions, holds that they mean war, and that view is supported by such men as  Sir Austen  Chamberlain,  Sir John  Latham, the former Minister for Health and Repatriation  (Mr. Hughes), Sir Stafford  Cripps and  Mr. George  Lansbury. 
He has not advocated them in this instance. I recall that at the commencement of the Great War, the late  Mr. Andrew  Fisher, whose name is revered in the Labour movement, offered Australia's help to Britain " to the last man and the last shilling ". 
In that year,  Mr. Fisher  was not here to carry out his promise. However, this country did not in fact offer Britain the lam shilling in that conflict and a great deal of the cost of it was passed on to the shoulders of the workers. Largely because of our participation in the Great War, we have to-day 300,000 people unemployed, and our small population of less than 7,000,000 is carrying a debt as large as that which Great Britain had incurred at the end of the Napoleonic Wars. There is a progressive aspect in matters of this nature. No doubt  Mr. Fisher  was sincere in his offer to Great Britain, but it was not fulfilled because when the war developed, we had to consider our own position in relation not only to the British Empire but also to the rest of the world. At that time the issue of conscription, which had never before been raised in this country, arose. Because they opposed conscription many people were called cowards and traitors. .1. myself, for instance, was called a Sinn Feiner, a pro-German and an Industrial Worker of the World supporter, although before that time, I had spent only about a fortnight in America. As the result of carrying out my duty, as editor of a newspaper, in allowing the free expression of public opinion on this issue, I was sentenced to two months' imprisonment without the option. That newspaper was the official organ of the Labour Government in Queensland, and its  chairman  of directors was the Home Secretary, who, was in charge of prisons. My sentence was suspended but had I been clapped into gaol on that occasion, I would have become, as a prisoner, the guest of my  chairman  of directors. However, when the issue of conscription was put to the people, a majority of 30,000 in Queensland voted against it. Yet for daring to voice opinions against conscription as I have indicated, anti-conscriptionists, like myself, were sentenced to imprisonment by the Commonwealth authorities. The verdict of the people on that occasion, showed that not only the stay-at-homes - the " deep-thinkers " - the Sinn Feiners, the pro-Germans and the Industrial Workers of the World supporters were against conscription, but also the majority of the soldiers who were serving in the trenches at that time. 
I am pointing out that an unpopular cause subjects its supporters to  misrepresentaton  and harsh treatment. Sanctions are a very difficult problem. After studying it, I sum up my opinion- by saying that I do not want to see Australia involved in another war of such vast dimensions as the previous war; I do not think we could stand it. We did  more than our share in the last war, although some people say to-day that we did not do even our share in that conflict. After all, a nation's participation in a war is a matter of proportion. We say that the United States did not do its fair share in the last war. Considering its huge population and its financial resources, I do not think it did. 
There onn be no doubt on that point. It Lj like keeping the peace. Suppose that a policeman seeing two fellows fighting in the street, approached them and said, " I have not met you' before, but this is an unfortunate thing you are doing; it is ungentlemanly. Don't you think you ought to read the New Testament on the doctrine of love of your fellow ma.:!, and learn from that that you should nor. fight in a street?" How far would he get with such a remonstrance? A policeman who had to keep the peace under such conditions would probably require the backing of sanctions. He would probably have to say to the offenders, " If you do not desist from fighting, I will see that the butcher or the milkman does not call at your home in the morning ". He would threaten to cut off their supplies of the necessaries of life. Of course, a policeman doing his duty in such circumstances would be threatened with reprisals. Undoubtedly, a similar position will arise internationally if sanctions are imposed. The former Minister for Health and Repatriation (Mi-. Hughes) who was the hero of the last war, holds this view, and quite a number of people, including a majority of the members of the Labour party, agree with him. Recently I read a report of a speech in which the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  said that peace could be maintained, and that Australia does not want war. On the other hand,  Mr. Hughes  maintains that sanctions mean war. 
Many people who have a right to form a judgment on the matter have come to the con clusion that sanctions mean war, and 1 agree with that view. The Labour party is as sincere in its view of this matter as it was in respect of the conscription issue It does not want to see Australia involved in another war, and hopes, by preaching the doctrine of nonparticipation, to keep this country out of war. 1 agree with that view. I believe that by opposing sanctions we are adopting the right attitude. 

 Senator HARDY  (New South Wales) [5.56  1  . - I was not. present in this chamber when this debate was commenced on Friday, but, having carefully read the speeches made then by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator Brown.  I feel I am sufficiently informed regarding their arguments to attempt to reply to them. A number of honorable senators have asked whether the Labour party really adheres to the principles of the League of Nations, or whether its professed adherence to the League is merely lip-service, to which it is committed in an endeavour to uphold a useful political ideal. One suspects the motives of that party in this matter. I have examined the various items of the Labour party's platform as amended at the federal conference in 1933, and I failed to find any mention of the League of Nations. A defence policy was mentioned at that conference, but no mention was made at that conference or in the platform of the party of the League of of Nations: nor was there any suggestion that the Labour party supported the League. 
Yes; I think it is essential that such a matter should be mentioned in the platform of a political party. 
Yes; not only do we support the ideals of the League of of Nations, but, unlike the Labour party, we ave prepared to observe the obligations placed upon us by the Covenant of the League. When speaking on the Appropriation Bill 1934-35,  Senator Collings,  replying to a question by  Senator 
Grant as to whether Australia's expenditure on the League of Nations was advisable, said - 
I hope that nothing  Senator Granthas  said will influence honorable senators to favour a reduction of the provision for Australia as a member of the League. 
I hoard  Senator Collings  express a similar view to-day. If he is prepared to support Australia's membership of the League, is it not logical to expect him and his colleagues to honour the obligations placed upon Australia through such membership ? 
In the first debate in this chamber on the Italo-Abyssinian dispute,  Senator Collings  read a statement of the policy of the Australian Labour party on that matter. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  said that he doubted that the Leader of the Opposition thoroughly understood the implication of the Covenant.  Senator Collings  did not say then that he thoroughly understood its implications. But let us see what the honorable senator said in December, 1934, when speaking on the Appropriation Bill 1934-35, as recorded in  Mansard,  page 1063- 
It is true that the League has not been able to accomplish many of the objectives embraced in its constitution, and it is also true that the League on some occasions has failed. But it is much more important for us to remember, not its failures, but its successes. 
Less than twelve months ago the honorable senator advocated concentration on the successes of the League, yet almost the whole of the honorable senator's speech last week was devoted to the failures of the League. In support of  Senator Collings'  tale of failures, other Opposition senators criticized the League for its inaction in connexion with the dispute between Japan and China. In December of last year  Senator Collings  saw fit to reprimand  Senator Grant  in the following terms: - 
I suggest to  Senator Grant,  and to other honorable senators who agree with his views, that they should make themselves fully acquainted with the constitution of the League of Nations, the work it has attempted to do, and what it is actually accomplishing, not only in Geneva, but throughout the world. 
Despite those words of praise for the League, the Leader of the Opposition now refuses to support it in its greatest test. Compare the honorable senator's words on that occasion with his latest utterance on this subject - 
The Australian Labour party is opposed to sanctions because it is opposed to war. The Labour party saw more clearly and more immediately than any other party that sanctions mean war. 
I propose now to quote from an editorial in the  Labor Daily,  which is the official organ of the Labour party in Australia. 
I am pleased to hear that, for I desired to be assured that there was still some difference of opinion between the Federal Labour party and the New South Wales Labour party. On the 22nd August, 1935, the  Labor Daily,  in an editorial, said - 
Articles 10 and 16 of the League Covenant are the two fundamental articles of the whole Covenant upon which the entire system of collective security is bused. If they are jettisoned international anarchy must result. 
Early in September  Mr. Lang  held an anti-war meeting in Sydney, and this was the occasion for a complete change of policy. As he thought that it would be bad policy to be in alliance with any other political party on any question, the  Labor Daily  turned a complete somersault, and said that in future sanctions would be opposed because they meant war. In an another part of the same article the following appeared :  - 
Another similar conflict to that of 1914-18 is unthinkable, butthe rape of Abyssinia would represent a direct challenge by Italy to the entire system of collective security that must be met by effective application of economic and financial sanctions. 
I hope that, when the Leader of the Opposition a.gain speaks on this subject, he will attempt to reconcile that statement with his more recent claim that the Australian Labour party saw the issue more clearly and more immediately than any other political party in Australia saw it. The attitude of the  Labor Daily,  if generally accepted, would mean the ushering in of international anarchy. Last week  Senator Collings  said - 
What is the cry to-day. Save the League of Nations in the interests of collective security. 
Asa rallying cry this is one of the cleverest, subtlest and most specious that has ever been raised in the cause of war. 
How different is that from the view expressed about twelve months ago, when the honorable senator took  Senator Grant  to task ! Indeed, how different from the view expressed by the  Labor Daily  only six weeks ago! 

 Senator Brown said that there was a considerable body of opinion in the British Labour party opposed to sanctions. For the information of the honorable senator, and of the Senate generally, [ shall read the following extract from the  Economist  of the 5th October, 1935:- 
Labour decides. - The overwhelming vote in favour of sanctions at the Labour Conference on Wednesday demonstrated how very largely personal is the much-advertised " split " in the party. A majority of 2,168,000 to 102,000 or over 20 to 1, was recorded in support of the League Covenant.  Dr. Hugh  Dalton, who proposed the resolution embodying the official party policy, made a clear, crushing and unanswerable case. 
Sanctions, he said, do not necessarily mean war. On the other hand the scrapping of sanctions as a reserve force behind international law certainly means war - war soon and in a far more terrible form than even a war between Italy and Abyssinia. A threat of sanctions may be enough to prevent war . . . But if Mussolini is so lunatic as to resist the united League of Nations by force, let it be so. He will order the firing of the first shot, and ho will take the consequences of that order. 
That this was the opinion of the vast majority of the delegates, was proved by the final vote. Before the vote was taken, however, there was a long and dramatic debate in which, the picturesque personalities of the minority spokesmen did something to conceal the numerical weakness of their supporters.  Sir Stafford  Cripps, most of whose adherents appeared to be in the public gallery, argued thathehad changed his mind about the League because he had only recently come to the conclusion that it was a League of sated imperialist powers - an " international burglars' union." Yet the only significant change in its character, coincident with  Sir Stafford's  conversion, has been the adherence of Russia! Lord Ponsonby laid great stress on the League's lack of universality, compared with the original intentions of its founders.  Mr. Lansburyspoke  the language of unqualified Christian pacifism: "They who take the sword shall perish with the sword." The delegates were sympathetic, but not persuaded. In reply  Mr. Bevin  tellingly remarked that those who did not approve of sanctions should have openly declared their opposition to the League years before. 
Every honorable senator who claims to understand the Covenant of the League of Nations should have opposed sanctions years ago if hebelievedthat they meant war. Why it is that the Labour party has waited until now to voice its opposition to the Covenant? The reason is that there is a world of difference between the Australian Labour party and the British Labour party. What are the sanctions for which the Covenant of the League provides? First, the Covenant provides that the aggressor nation shall be prevented from getting arms. Does the Leader of the Opposition object to that? If so, it means that he is prepared to assist Italy to obtain arms. This bill is an attempt by Australia, in common with over 50 other nations, to prevent a covenant-breaking State - in this case Italy - from obtaining arms. 
The point at the moment is not the willingness of British armament makers to supply arms to Italy, but the willingness of the honorable senator to assist Italy to obtain them. The second object of sanctions is the prevention of a covenant-breaking State from getting essential raw materials. In my opinion, there is no essential difference between supplying a machine gun and supplying the lead out of which bullets for machine guns may be  made.  Is  Senator Collings  in favour of supplying a covenant-breaking State with raw materials for the making of ammunition? 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m.. 

I have said that it is hard to concede that the attitude of Labour is logical in view of the fact that the party  has  taken sixteen years to discover that it is not prepared to subscribe to the principle of sanctions, although in the present circumstances their application is clearly required under article 16 of the Covenant of the League of Nations. The Senate has now to decide whether it will support the bill before it, which provides for the application of sanctions against Italy. I believe that I am correct in saying that the Leader of the Opposition, in replying to  the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  said that he will fight the bill at every stage, because he considers that sanctions mean war. But every honorable senator who has spoken in opposition to the measure, when pressed for a reason for that assertion, has been unable to justify it. The attitude of the opponents of the bill is entirely illogical. 
As I have already indicated., the first object of the application of 'sanctions is to prevent a covenant-breaking State from obtaining arms. That is one of the purposes of this legislation. We contend that a nation which has deliberately broken the Covenant of the League, to which it has subscribed, and has set out on a policy which threatens to bring western civilization to its knees, by embroiling the world in a turmoil similar to that experienced in the years 3914-1S, should be regarded as an enemy of peace. If sanctions mean war, I would rather impose them than permit a belligerent nation like Italy to be supplied with arms to carry ou its cruel attack upon Abyssinia. If the Leader of the. Government said that it had been decided to allow  the  small arms factory at Lithgow to export its surplus arms to Italy, on the ground that this would provide work for Australians, would not the Leader of the Opposition claim that it would be wrong to employ trade unionists in the manufacture of arms that were to be sent overseas? The Labour party cannot consistently claim that it supports the League of Nations if it opposes the imposition of sanctions on a belligerent nation  which  breaks the Covenant of the League. What, would be the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition to the employment of members of the Australian Workers Union on the large grazing properties distributed throughout the Commonwealth, if this Parliament did not. prohibit the export to Italy of wool, which  is  required to clothe the Italian troops now engaged in harassing Abyssinia? 
The second object of sanctions, as 1 have previously remarked, is to prevent a Covenant-breaking State from obtaining essential raw materials. The third object is to inflict severe economic and financialloss upon such a nation. Italy has defied all the laws of humanity, and has deter- mined to wreck the peace of the world. By subjecting that country to economichardship we shall be trying to restrain it from pursuing its career of slaughter; but the Labour party tells us that we should not apply sanctions, because they mean war. What would the Labour party substitute for this bill? A conflagration threatens Europe, but that party takes refuge behind an academic argument. We have looked in vain for a constructive proposal -from it, but none is vouchsafed. It is illogical for the Opposition to condemn this measure, which aims at collective security within the League. The fourth object of sanctions is to give economic and financial aid to the nation which is the victim of aggression, but the Opposition is not prepared to give such aid. Only a year ago we heard the Leader of the Opposition reprimand  Senator Grant,  and advise him to study the Covenant of the League in order to obtain a  proper appreciation of its implications. Why did he not then voice his protest against sanctions? It is said by the Labour party that sanctions will fail to achieve their object. 
I have heard it said in many places that, because sanctions will fail, they will merely irritate the people of Italy, and cause a war. I invite honorable senators to consider whether sanctions will be effective. To-day Germany. Japan and the United States of America are outside the League, and, of course, if Italy possesses sufficient gold, it will be able to trade with those nations.  Within  the last few days we have read in the press that the exports from the United States of America to Italy have increased tremendously. It may be said that Italy could purchase the raw materials it needs from Japan: hut I venture the opinion that it cannot expect the co-operation of Japan, whose official spokesman has declared that that country is interested in the stability of Asia, and is determined to lead the coloured races. So it is unlikely that Japan would help a western nation to crush Abyssinia. I am prepared to admit that Germany now has a large export trade with Italy. 
No. Although Italy can obtain supplies from countries that are independent of the League of Nations, it is only reasonable to assume that in a time of war its purchases will have to be made with gold. In considering whether sanctions will prove effective, we have to study the internal economy of the aggressor country against whom they are directed. Italy is not adequately equipped to-day, financially or industrially, to undertake a protracted struggle in Abyssinia, and is it not reasonable to assume that it would be less able to engage in a world-wide war against all the nations which constitute the League? 
I shall quote a statement relating to Italy's financial position from one of the leading financial journals of the world. It says - 
Italyhas not the natural or financial resources at its command to face a protracted struggle. It imports, normally, practically all of its cotton, copper, and mineral oil; 95 per cent of its coal; 80 per cent. of its wool; and 53 per cent. of metals other than copper. 
Allowing that preparations have been going on for some time, supplies available can be sufficient for only a brief campaign. No matter what the accumulation, it cannot cover every need. Outside purchases are necessary. 
The point I desire to emphasize is that the external market in which Italy can make purchases is limited to two countries. Fifty-one nations of the world declare that they will have no transactions with Italy which will assist Mussolini to prosecute this war. Their unanimity is sufficient justification for Australia to follow their example. 
The statement continues - 
These depend on Italy's capacity to pay - cash or deferred. Its cash resources are expressed in its gold and its foreign credits. These, a month ago, totalled probably less than £90,000,000 in sterling equivalent. 
Nor can Italy view its credit standing as AI. 
Italy's budget deficits must read disquietingly to Italian financiers and economists in the light of the wide expenditure to which the Government was committed the moment its troops crossed the Abyssinian border on the 2nd October. The deficits read - For 1930-31. £11,317,000; 1931-32, £65,967,000; 1932-33, £60,367,000; 1933-34, £107,633,000 (all in sterling equivalent). That position would not inspire confidence in the money markets in normal circumstances. Its appeal to a financial world determined onpeace may be imagined. 
Those figures represent the internal economy of a country which is prosecuting a war in Abyssinia, and which, according to the Australian Labour party, might if sanctions are imposed, conduct a war against 51 nations. The statement proceeds - 
Since August, the chief avenues of credit have been closed to Italy. Thus, from this angle, and from the angle of its inability to pay cash beyond a certain point, economic sanctions merely frame an already painted picture. 
The United States of America Governmentcontrolled Export-Import Bank has refused to grant short-term credit. 
When the Labour party opposes the bill, it should take that point into consideration. Upon analysis, it will be understood that the impositions of sanctions cannot, in any circumstances, give rise to a world-wide war. Turning again to the statement I find that - 
On the 18th September, £2,060,834 was outstanding to British creditors under the AngloItalian trade agreement. (A million was mentioned as owing to coal exporters alone). 
Dues to the Suez Canal Company for war traffic have been stated at £600,000 to the end of September. 
The review concludes with a statement that the money and commodity markets of the world will be closed to Italy. Is it any wonder that, as a result of the internal difficulties of Italy herself, this journal says that " economic sanctions merely frame an already painted picture " ? - 
And all expenditure figures expand rapidly once hostilities are commenced. 
The money markets and the commodity marts of the world will be closed to Italy. And, more than that, war necessities result in internal production being diverted into abnormal channels, thereby throwing normal production out of gear, and increasing the demand on imports. 
A further review shows how sanctions are being applied, not through the desire of governments, but through the commercial sense of the countries involved. 
I have taken the following extract from the  Economist,  of September: - 
Will Signer Mussolini's '"forward" foreign policy be hold back by economic difficulties? Many people are asking that question; and certainly a number of reports in the last few days indicate that the Duce's preparations in East Africa have given the economic screw in Italy a severe twist. First, the bank rate in Italy was raised last Monday from 3½ to 4½ per cent. This follows a drop in the gold reserve from 5,523 million lire to 5,257 million lire in the last ten days of July. Thus, despite the strict control of Italian citizens' and firms' foreign securities and assets, gold is flowing out; and this emphasizes the reason for the recent decree abandoning the statutory requirement of 40 per cent. gold cover against notes and sight liabilities. 

 Senator Collings will realize that the most powerful instrument of the belligerent nations in the last war was the gold reserve. The payment by Germany of gold in certain Pacific ports enabled the  Emden  to carry on its raiding. Ifa country goes to war, although its internal credit may be sound at the time, it must have gold to purchase its requirements in markets abroad. 
But Australia is not going to war. Mussolini has ordered the mobilization of all foreign credits and fluids belonging to Italian citizens - 
Secondly, the need for transport of goods andmen in East Africa has led to the withdrawal of many Italian ships from the Black Sea route, and to the crowding of tramps and transports through the Suez Canal. Many foreign ships, chiefly Greek, are under charter for this purpose: and it is reported from Germany that thirteen vessels, with a total tonnage of 120.000 have been purchased by Italy from foreign countries, while negotiations are continuing for further ships. 
Thirdly, Italy has been trying hard to' buy cotton- 
If there is one commodity that a belligerent nation must have above all others -  Senator Brand  will readily endorse this - it is cotton for big gun ammunition - but she has met with a rebuff- 
Not from Great Britain or any other member of the League, but-  in the United States, where the Governmentowned Export-Import Bank has declined to grant short-term credits to American exporters of United States cotton to Italy despite the huge American stocks of a commodity which is one of the " sinews of war ". 
Although the United States is not imposing sanctions, the very internal economy of Italy is imposing a sanctions programme on nations outside the League. 
For a gentleman who does not worry, the honorable senator looks particularly upset at present. I venture to say that the easiest way out of his difficulty would be for him to vote for the bill. The  Economist  continued -  fourthly, it is reported that Italy already owes South Wales and Durham exporters over £1,500,090 for coal; that the sum of £1,770,792 was still outstanding on 7th August under the Anglo-Italian trade agreement and awaiting transfer to British exporters, and that in view of her indebtedness to British coal exporters, Italy has chartered seven Greek ships to transport new Italian purchases of Polish coal to Italy.Italy's industries, more than those of any otherEuropean great power, ourselves included, depend on imported raw materials. 
The greatest asset we have in our sanctions programme is the internal and economic position of Italy. This extract is taken from  Fascism at Work,  by El win - 
The national debt amounted to about. 95,000,000,000 lire in 1922-23. The expenditure for unproductive needs, such as military police, colonies, &amp;c., induced budget deficits of 3,000,000,000 and even more. In the ten years of Fascist rule, the internal debt has risen from 95,000,000,000 to at least 135,000.000,000 lire, in round figures, over 10,000,000,000 lire of new debts per day. 
Yet this is the country which, according to the Leader of the Opposition, will enter into a world-wide war if sanctions are imposed against it. Italy will be hard put to make further progress with the conquest of Abyssinia. The national wealth of Italy is estimated by Mortara, an eminent economist, at only 450,000,000,000 lire, so that here exists a state of affairs hardly to be met with elsewhere, even in a colony, let alone among the great powers of Europe! The first part of the bill, which outlines the prohibition of the export of arms, is one which the Leader of the Opposition does not propose to support, and this is most illuminating. If the bill were stripped of its camouflage and merely provided that Australia should join with the other nations in prohibiting the export of arms, the Leader of the Opposition. to be consistent, would have to oppose it. because it would interfere with the freedom of Australia to export arms to Italy. 
I propose to quote figures showing the world's export of munitions for 1933. My authority is the  Blue Book  of the League of Nations. The United Kingdom, itself one of the parties to the proposal to impose sanctions, exports 33.8 per cent. of the total supplies. Is it not reasonable to assume if over one-third of the exportable arms are suddenly cut off, Italy must feel the effect of the cessation, or does the honorable senator advocate that England should continue to export 33.8 per cent. of the world's armaments? The United States of America, which has been so often referred to as a country outside the League, exports about 16.7 per cent. France, a member of the League, exports 14.6 per cent. Of the three great exporting nations in the munition world then, two of them, who represent 50 per cent. of the total, are members of the League and are applying sanctions. But even that fact does not impress the Leader of the Opposition who says that to apply sanctions is to interfere with freedom - that the very fact that these countries will not export their arms to Italy will create war. 
I realize that the Leader of the Opposition does not appreciate my deductions. He has spoken against the prohibition of the export of arms. 
The honorable senator has spoken against the application of sanctions, and they include a prohibition of the export of arms. Two nations are responsible for 50 per cent. of the total export of arms. The complete table, which may interest honorable senators, is as follows: - 

<graphic href="148332193511132_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  may say that that does not prove my case, but I venture to suggest that if he were asked to give a definite vote as to whether we should supply Italy with arms to conduct war against Abyssinia his reply would be in the negative. Well, then, I ask him to support the bill. 
I now come to the subject of credits, which, as I have already pointed out, are extremely important for they are necessary for the prosecution of war. Although a modern army may have a constant supply of arms and munitions to prosecute a campaign, as  Senator Brand  and  Senator Sampson  know, it needs about ten men in the supply organization to keep one man in the field. To obtain these supplies gold is necessary. The. surest way in which to limit a nation's ability to buy in the world's markets is to restrict its credits. There is no moral difference between sending 1,000,000 rifles from Australia for use by the Italian army and sending £1,000,000. Both are used in conducting military operations and consequently come under sanctions. There are two classes of credits. There are credits owned by a country before the commencement of hostilities, and those secured by it after the outbreak of hostilities. Let us examine the credits in existence at the outbreak of war. They include foreign currency within the country; foreign securities within the country ; commercial balances and instruments abroad; and branch houses, real property, abroad. Before the commencement of hostilities, a nation must attempt to marshal its credits Mussolini has already acted on these lines. After the commencement of hostilities it is an entirely different matter, because it can then extend its credits only on interest and dividends on securities held - provided there were no sanctions; commercial balances from exports - provided that there are exports; borrowings by commercial houses - provided there are no sanctions preventing borrowing; credits or loans secured by the government - provided there are no sanctions; credits or loans secured by municipalities or credits transferred from a third country. When honorable senators analyse the provisions of the bill and the credit machinery they will find that the only source of credit available to Italy, apart from its internal gold reserve, is that available in the United States of America, Germany and Japan. If we analyse Italian loans since 1921 to the present day we find that all of these three countries, particularly the United States of America, are creditor countries which, in commercial terras, means that there is no balance to be transferred. Therefore, Italy cannot obtain credits abroad and the only credit available is its rapidly diminishing gold supply. Over 51 nations are co-operating in a campaign to prevent Mussolini from bringing western civilization to its feet. If the position which I have outlined does not impress the members of the Australian Labour party I do not know what will. The only conclusion I can come to is that the Australian Labour party is opposing this bill because it does not wish to work in cooperation with any other political party however great the national emergency may be. 
The only other point I wish to stress is the fact that the major portion of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition - I did not hear it, but I read it carefullyagainst the application of sanctions was an attempt to ridicule the Government because Italy is securing petrol supplies from the United States of America. I have heard members of the Labour party in this chamber say that sanctions cannot be effective because petrol, which is used extensively by a mechanized army, is flowing freely out of the United States of America into Italy. The Leader of the Opposition said - 
Deny Italy petrol and immediately its capacity to attack Abyssinia and prosecute the present conflict would be prejudiced. 
Does the honorable senator realize the significance of those words? He has admitted that sanctions can be effective in stopping war. 
In that admission the Leader of the Opposition has shown that a continuation of the war can be preven ted. 
If we assist to prevent Italy from receiving raw material we can perhaps stop the present war. 
I now wish to deal briefly with the subject which has not yet been touched upon during the debate. I refer to Australia's export trade. I may be asked whether that is relevant to the bill. It is in this respect: We have to consider the consequence, if collective action fails. The League of Nations is the only instrument ever devised to ensure international peace, and if we abandon it what are the consequences likely to be? 
If the League and collective action fail each nation must inevitably adopt a policy of selfsufficiency or economic nationalism, which will ultimately force Australian export trade to its knees. A short time ago the German Minister for Agriculculture said " We shall never be forced to our knees as we were forced a few years ago ". Because of the fear engendered among European nations they have been forced to adopt a policy of selfsufficiency. We must not remove the only instrument which stands between Australia and complete economic chaos. Fully one-third of Australia's produce is  exported, and if we are to maintain peace and ensure a continuance of existing trade conditions we must support the bill. 
I do not think that I should cast a silent vote on the measure before the Senate. At the same time I shall not employ many words, and in those words honorable senators may not find anything new. My real objective is to emphasize certain facts which have already been placed before the Senate. Australia having willingly, and oven eagerly, assumed the rights and privileges of a nation has hitherto displayed a desire to play a nation's part in world affairs. Now that it is asked to bear a nation's responsibility I am sure that there willbe no flinching, and that this Parliament, on behalf of Australia, in agreeing to the application of sanctions to restrain Italy from proceeding further along the path of destruction, will be speaking with the voice of the people and honouring both their legal and their moral obligations. Honorable senators supporting the Government have been described as "warmongers ", but I, and other honorable senators on this side of the chamber, resent that term. I am sure that nothing is more foreign to the lessons of their experience than the promotion of international strife. Several honorable senators on this side have given service for their country in the field, some very much to their own personal cost, the evidences of which are to be seen to-day. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  stated that the conscription referendums in 1916 and 1917 were rejected by members of the Australian Imperial Force then on service overseas. I want to convey to the Senate what their actual opinion was as to the duty of Australia at that time. 
The official figures show that both referendums were answered in the affirmative by our soldiers overseas. At the first referendum, held on the 28th October, 1916, 133.813 votes were cast. Of that number 72,399 voted for, and 58,894 against, conscription, while 2,520 votes were informal. The majority for conscription on that occasion was 13,505. At the second referendum, held on the 20th December, 1917, the number of soldier voters was 199,677, of whom 103,789 voted for, and 93,910 against, conscription. The number of informal votes was 1,978, and the majority for conscription 9,879. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  in moving the second reading of the bill, was, I am sure, deeply conscious alike of its importance and its possible consequences to Australia. In view . of his long public life and, I may say, great public service to Australia during the most critical period in our history, no man in our midst can speak with more authority and with greater knowledge of the political, economic and physical destructiveness of war, or the paramount need for avoiding it by every honorable and practical means. Is it likely, therefore, that he spoke on behalf of the Government without previously having given the most grave consideration to what is desired and the risks attached to the attainment of that desire? 
The history of the last 150 yearsis notable for the number of wars which have occurred, some of them dynastic in origin, some due to the need for racial expansion or commercial gain, some caused by sheer militancy and the desire for conquest, and others by internal pressure and upheavals. But through all that time, owing to the spread of enlightenment among the people of all countries, there has been evinced an ever-growing desire for permanent world peace, for the protection of human life, the cessation of the destruction of property, and the promotion of that spirit of understanding and helpfulness to which Christian communities profess to attach such great importance. In the pursuit of this objective we should, I think, give full emphasis to the sincerity displayed by the British Empire. During the critical negotiations in Europe in the mid-summer months of 1914, just before the commencement of hostilities,  Sir Edward  Grey, the then BritishForeign Minister, declared that, if Europe could be pulled through the crisis, it would be the duty of the statesmen of the world to create some international system by which such future crises might be averted. 
That weighty utterance was not an isolated pronouncement. Almost immediately after the outbreak of hostilities,  Mr. Asquith,  then Prime Minister of Great Britain, announced that it was a war aim of the British people to establish, at its close, a league of peace. During all the dark years of the war that splendid ideal was not lost sight of by British Ministers, and the political leaders of that other great branch of the Anglo-Saxon race, the United States of America. The ultimate outcome was the establishment of the League of Nations, which was designed to promote peace and prevent aggression by any individual power. The principles of the constitution of the League were, I think, in accordance with our desires. We accepted its articles without opposition, and by signing the Covenant we assumed our share of its obligations without protest from any political party in Australia. At that time it seemed that " the war to end war " had really attained its objective. 
 Now a situation has arisen in which Australia is, without a doubt, being jailed upon to play its part in accordance with its solemn undertaking. We cannot disregard the summons because the peace of older nations, as well as our own future, is at stake. Since collective security means protection for Australia against hostile acts, if by an adverse vote now we sabotage the League, who can say what dire fate may be ours later? 
I must confess that I cannot understand the attitude of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party upon this issue, unless it be its wont, despite its many good works, occasionally to back the wrong horse. I am satisfied that the people of Australia endorse every action taken by the League, and that by firmness on the part of this Government in support of Great Britain and the League, the danger of war - not a very grave danger at the moment, I think - will be averted, and more and wider avenues opened for future exploitation of the possibilities of universal peace. Since 1914 no country has  been  confronted with a graver problem than that with which we now have to deal. I have no doubt as to the decision of this chamber. I whole-heartedly support the bill. 
In the course of my remarks upon this important subject, it will be my purpose to break new ground, if that be possible after the lengthy debate that has already taken place. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has not denied that the League of Nations was established for the purpose of preventing future wars from destroying civilization. On the contrary, he has, I understand, on many occasions upheld the ideals of the League. 
The League of Nations came into being when the Treaty of Peace with Germany was ratified on the 10th January, 1920. Its charter, containing 26 articles, is known as the Covenant which includes a number of provisions for the prevention and settlement of disputes. These clauses bind natio'ns which are members of the League not to employ force for the settlement of the disputes until they have first been submitted to the League of Nations, or to arbitrators or to judges. The right to resort to war was retained in the event of the League or the arbitrators failing to reach a unanimous decision, but even then only after a delay of three months after such failure. This right to war was abandoned by the 60 States which signed the Kellogg Pact. Thus for the first time in history machinery was devised for the establishment of an international tribunal with a set purpose to prevent war, which is regarded as the greatest scourge of mankind. 
Apparently the ideal of the League is too high for certain members of the socalled Labour party of Australia. 
Because Labour's spokesmen in this chamber do not represent the virile rank and file of the workers of Australia. The preamble to the Covenant of the League of Nations reads as follows : - 
The High Contracting Parties - 
In order to promote international cooperation and to achieve international peace and security - by the acceptance of obligations not to resort to war, by the prescription of open, just and honorable relations between nations, by the firm establishment of the understandings of international law as the actual rule of conduct among governments, and, by the maintenance of justice and the scrupulous respect for all treaty obligations in the dealings of organized peoples with one another, 
Agree to this Covenant of the League of nations. 
If Labour senators believe in the League of Nations, if they believe in its ideals they must endorse its Covenant, which states specifically that "there shall be scrupulous respect for all treaty obligations." No one will deny that Italy has violated one article of the solemn treaty made between the nations represented at Geneva. By that Treaty of Paris the signatory nations pledged themselves to the Covenant of the League, and the moral rules governing its members. On the 1st November, a cable message, which appeared in the Australian press, reported  Mr. F.  B. Kellogg, a former American Secretary of State, as having said in an interview at St. Pauls, Minnesota, in reference to the Kellogg-Briand Pact- 
The United States of America in common with other countries can and should designate Italy as the aggressor in flagrant violation of the sovereignty of another nation. The United States of America should denounce Italy's violation of her treaty obligations and announce that it will take no step to interfere or nullify the measures which other nations are now taking to put a stop to this war What some American peopleseem to have forgotten, and what the Italian people or their Government seemed to have entirely ignored is that when Italy invaded Abyssinia, she was thus, beyond a. shadow of a doubt, proceeding to use war as an instrument of national policy. Italy has violated a treaty with the United States of America, and thus violated the supreme law of our land. 
I emphasize that the United States of America really stands outside the League. Nevertheless, so prominent a spokesman for that country, one who played a foremost part in the formulation of the League Covenant, has said that Italy in breaking the League Covenant has violated treaty obligations with the United States of America.  Mr. Kellogg  emphasized - 
Italy has violateda treaty with the United States of America and thus violated the supreme law of our land. 
When the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues say that they believe in the 
League of Nations, surely they accept a fundamental principle of the League, that members must scrupulously observe all their treaty obligations. The Leaderof the Opposition must have been aware of that fact when he said a year ago that he believed in the League. He was then practically a protagonist of the League, and on one occasion he corrected honorable senators who suggested that the League was not all that it should be. In view of his previous statements surely he believes that when Italy has broken a treaty Australia should support other nations in upholding the treaty. Labour parties in Great Britain, France, and practically throughout the world have supported the League in the present conflict, because they recognize that if the League is to be worth anything at all its members must stand up to their treaty obligations. It is futile to talk platitudes about the League. The peace of the world will not be secured by words.  Mr. Kellogg  has stated definitely that in its non-observance of the League Italy has violated treaty obligations with the United States of America. Honorable senators who support this measure hold the view that Italy has also violated treaty obligations with Australia. Referring again to the Kellogg-Briand Pact, and to the attitude of the United States of America,  Mr. Kellogg  said - 
I hope that those considering trading with Italy will have it brought home to them constantly that in supplying oil. cotton or machinery they are aiding and abetting a nation that treats a solemn treaty as a scrap of paper. 
In opposing the imposition of sanctions, members of the Opposition really suggest that Australia should break faith with the rest of the world. In following such a course we would probably not only cause confusion among the other nations which constitute the League, but would also support the opening of the door immediately for all sorts of open trading in oil, armaments, munitions, and all requirements of war. Thus we would add fuel to the flames and do the very thing which Australia as a member of the League has undertaken to prevent. 
I do not suggest anything of the sort. I cannot understand how members of the Opposition at one moment uphold the League and profess their belief in all the League stands for, and then after the lapse of a few months crawl, as one honorable senator put it, into their funk-holes. If honorable senators believe in the League, they must believe in upholding treaties. Signatories to the Covenant of the League have undertaken to ' promote international co-operation and to achieve international peace and security - by the acceptance of obligations not to resort to war, by the prescription of open, just and honorable relations between nations, by the firm establishment of the understandings of international law as the actual rule  of  conduct among governments and by the maintenance of justice and a scrupulous respect for all treaty obligations in the dealings of organized peoples with one another. 
The undertaking to maintain scrupulous respect for all treaty obligations is a vital principle of the Covenant and has been stressed as such over and over again. I propose now to deal with the League's Code, which contains the broad rules governing the conduct of League members : - 
The Peace of Nations. - Any war or threat of war, anywhere is recognized to be a matter of concern of tlie whole League. 
Renunciation of War. - Members may "in no case" resort to war until they have at least tried peaceful procedure and have then waited a further three months. In certain conditions, the obligation not to resort to war is unqualified. 
Peaceful Procedure and Settlement. - livery dispute " likely to lead to a rupture " must be submitted to peaceful procedure, either to a decision by the permanent court or SITe 1,11 arbitrators, or to inquiry and report by the Council. Certain kinds of dispute arc recognized as " generally suitable for legal decision ". 
Peaceful Change and the  status quo. -  The territorial integrity and political independence of members are to bc respected and preserved against aggression, and tlie Assembly may advise " the reconsideration of treaties which have become inapplicable " and " the consideration of international conditions whose continuance might endanger the peace of tlie world ". 
Collective Security. - Provision is made for collective action to coerce any State resorting to war in breach of its obligations. The contribution by all other members of the League to economic and financial pressure is obligatory; the contribution of naval and military force is a matter for recommendation by the Council, but it is assumed that members will co-operate loyally and effectively within the limits allowed by their armaments anil geographical position. These sanctions are not for the purpose of imposing the League'* decision but for preventing, and in the last resort stopping, breaches of the covenanted peace as quickly and with as little injury as possible. 
These are five of the main rules of conduct. I point out that the Leader of the Opposition has repudiated this fifth duty. This rule prescribes that the nation shall take collective action to coerce any nation resorting to war in a breach of its obligations under the Covenant. This being so, how does the Leader of the Opposition square his opinions of the League to-day with those which he expressed some time ago? On a previous occasion, he suggested that honorable senators should examine the Covenant of the League and find out exactly what the League stands for. At that time he implied that many honorable senators were ignorant of the real duties and objects of the League. Apparently, however, the honorable senator himself was totally ignorant of what the League stands for. The League of Nations is not a League of words; it is not even a House of Parliament. It is an assembly of nations which contracted to do everything in their power to preserve the peace of the world. I repeat that the fifth rule of the League makes it obligatory on all members to contribute to collective action for the maintenance of peace. Apparently, the Leader of the Opposition knows nothing about that rule, and his speech on this matter must be regarded as a mass of wordy nothings. A little while ago, I characterized his utterances as platitudes; they are not even platitudes. When the honorable senator took other honorable senators to task, suggesting that they did not know what the League stood for, he himself did not. understand the objects of the League. Apparently, he had not read the rules of conduct, which the Covenant lays down for League members. 
I am showing that the honorable senator knew nothing about the matter at that time. To-day, he opposed the imposition of sanctions, yet the fifth rule of conduct for members of the League lays it down definitely that in the interests of collective security, it is obligatory on members of the League to impose financial and economic pressure on any nation which commits a breach of the Covenant. The contribution of naval and military forces in any collective action taken by members of the League is a matter for recommendation to the Council. We are proud of the fact that, in spite of the dangers and difficulties involved in such a duty, Great Britain based sufficient naval strength in the Mediterranean, in order, first, to show its strength, and, secondly, to assist the League when the need for armed strength arose. Thus, at least one nation has stood by this rule of the League, and has been  complimented  by Germany on the fact that it had replaced France as the leading nation within the League. These sanctions have not been designed for the purpose merely of imposing the League's decision on members, but primarily with the object of preventing and in the last resort stopping breaches of the Covenant with as little injury as possible. That is the basic idea of the Covenant. It is not necessarily correct to say that sanctions mean war. The League holds the view that by the imposition of economic sanctions, it will shorten this war. Even if it were to fail on this occasion, on a future occasion it might, by the imposition of sanctions, avoid war. By such a method it seeks to stop trade in munitions, arms, ammunition, fuel of all kinds, and, in fact, all material likely to assist in the waging of war. No matter what authority honorable senators may quote in support of their attitude, I claim that economic sanctions do not necessarily mean war. The imposition of such sanctions is a means to be utilized by those nations which have covenanted under the League to bring about peace as quickly as possible and with as little injury as possible to any nation. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that Italy should be allowed to violate a treaty into which it has entered? He would not do so himself, but, like any other honorable man, would stick to an agreement to which he had placed his signature. The honorable senator has shown that he knows very little about the League of Nations. He takes his theories out of the political oven before they have been properly cooked. If he will give greater consideration to the ideals of the League, he will realize that ideals must be backed not only by words, but also by sacrifice. Nothing worth while in life has been won without some form of human sacrifice.  Senator Brown  referred to the White Australia policy. Does he not realize th at if Australia fails to honour its obligations to the League Covenant, it cannot consistently call upon other nations to defend the White Australia principle should it be challenged. 
If Australia were attacked, and the White Australia principle were endangered, I sincerely believe that the United States of America would come to our aid. Not many men will willingly dishonour obligations into which they have entered. It is said that an Englishman's word is his bond. Let it also be said that the word of the British Empire, and of Australia as a part of the Empire, is its bond ; that the people of Great Britain and the British dominions remain true to the best traditions of the race. Much has been said of the failures of the League of Nations, .but when we reflect that in this country, where only one flag flies and the one language is spoken, hatred and strife are only too prevalent, can we wonder that, among men differing in nationality, language and religion, there is not perfect unanimity in regard to the _ best way to abolish war? The problem can be solved only by strong men of resolute will, who are determined to stand by the obligations into which hey have entered. The Labour party has failed Australia ; indeed, it has failed humanity, for not only Abyssinia but also every other small nation is involved in the present crisis. Australia is one of the small nations of the world; it is an outpost of the British Empire, occupying, as it were, the front trench of the white race. Should Australia ever be in great difficulties its position in the world will be stronger, if we are able to say that, when another small nation was attacked, Australia rang true. I hope that the war between Italy and Abyssinia will not spread, and that there will not be another world war. I am pledged to economic sanctions, because I believe-that they will be a potent factor in the preservation of world peace. 
.- On such an important bill I do not wish to remain silent; nevertheless, I shall not weary honorable senators by expressing at great length the reasons why I support a measure, the necessity for the introduction of which I regret. If we were able to get in touch with every Australian citizen, we would find that, although the outbreak of hostilities between Italy and Abyssinia is deeply regretted, there is a determination on the part of a great majority of the people of Australia to do everything possible to assist the League of Nations to bring about a speedy termination of the conflict. In my opinion, not sufficient recognition has been given to the magnificent effort which Great Britain has been making for some time to avert hostilities and, failing that, to secure unanimity among the larger nations of the world as to the means to be adopted to bring hostilities to an end as early as possible. At no time in the history of the world has Great Britain stood so high in public esteem as it now stands because of its efforts in the interests of peace. For that reason, I greatly regret that this Australian Parliament does not speak with one voice in regard to the dispute between Italy and Abyssinia. A. bill such as that now before us should be above party strife, for it transcends party in that it aims at the betterment of the peoples of the whole world. The New Zealand Parliament passed similar legislation without a dissentient voice being raised in either chamber. What New Zealand has done, Australia ought to do. I am not without hope that the three members of the Federal Labour party who constitute the Opposition in this chamber will, even yet, withdraw their opposition to the measure, so that it may be said that the Senate recorded a unanimous vote in favour of the bill, the purpose of which is to make it impossible for a covenantbreaking nation to carry on hostilities successfully. I am astounded at the attempts made by the Opposition to mislead the people of Australia regarding the motive underlying this legislation. Last Monday night, when in Melbourne, I attended a meeting at which prominent speakers referred to the Commonwealth Ministry as " Australia's war ministry ". The meeting was convened to express opposition to fascism and war, but opportunity was taken to censure the Government for having introduced a Crimes Bill and for desiring to embroil Australia in a world war. Fortunately, the audience was not large, there being probably not more than 1000 persons present, but I was surprised at the length to which the political opponents of the Government are prepared to go in an attempt to discredit it. There is no evidence of any desire for war on the part of the Government. 
Then why did speakers at the meeting in Melbourne refer to the Commonwealth Ministry as the "War ministry"? 
The object of that legislation is to bring a war now in progress to a speedy termination. 
Sanations can lead to war only if the nation against which they- are directed commits an act of war. Notwithstanding its strength, Italy would hesitate before engaging in war against the nations which have agreed to impose financial and economic sanctions against it. The most extraordinary thing about the meeting which I attended in Melbourne was that it was called with the object of protesting against fascism. The other item on the agenda paper was anti-war - a lovely mixture indeed ! Anything to catch the public ear and delude the people ! On the one hand Italy is denounced because it has a form of government which we in Australia would never tolerate and on the other hand, the Australian Government is denounced for bringing forward a measure to terminate the present war by imposing sanctions on Italy. 
The international position to-day is serious. I am much in accord with a  speaker  who addressed himself to the Abyssinian dispute recently, and said that, in his opinion, the magnificent gesture of Great Britain towards disarmament, though made with the best of intentions, probably accounts for the Italian aggression against Abyssinia. He contended that if Great Britain, instead of spending millions of pounds on the payment of the dole to its youth, had used the money to train the youths in defence of the British Empire, and to maintain: her armaments for defence purposes, Italy would never have dared to undertake hostilities in East Africa. That may be correct ; but we realize that Britain, despite its handicaps, has taken a risk in order to give a lead to the world in disarmament. Its attitude has evoked the admiration of the world. If Australians do not stand behind Great Britain in its magnificent effort, we shall no longer be Britons; we shall be recreant to the trust imposed in us and shall never bo able to lift our heads again among the nations that are honouring the Covenant. We must not desert Great Britain and other countries associated with her in their hour of need. No more important legislation than this has been brought before this Parliament for many years. This measure marks a critical stage in our history, and demands either that we stand firm in our intention to honour the undertaking we gave when we signed the 'Covenant of the League of Nations and maintain the loyalty which we owe to the Commonwealth of Nations which form the British Empire, or play the part of a renegade. We may follow one of two courses. I know the part that we shall play, however; the bill will be passed. 
Then why all these tears? 
On behalf of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  I thank honorable senators for the high plane on which the measure has been discussed. No measure more far-reaching or more important has ever come before the Senate. It affects not only the interests of Australia but, as I shall indicate, the interests of suffering civilization itself. It is proper that a matter of such moment should be discussed on the highest possible plane, and not made the subject of party attack, because the future of civilization depends upon tho attitude that is adopted by the constituent members of the League. Hie measure is fraught with such tremendous responsibilities that we should deal with it earnestly and in no carping partisan spirit. Any shaft that may come from me in the course of my speech, although perhaps aimed at some of the honorable gentlemen opposite, will be directed by a sincere desire to convert them from their present attitude to a realization of their responsibility and their duty to humanity. When debating a measure of this description, we should take stock of where the peoples of the world stand - why are we hero, what are we doing, and what is our duty to posterity? Surely we arc trustees for posterity, and have a responsibility for the future advancement of mankind. Because of this, a suffering civilization has brought into being the League of Nations. The foundation of the League was the first concerted attempt of civilized man to rescue itself from the horrors of war. Whatever failures it may have had in the past, and despite the lack of support from certain powers, the League has been a force for good. I remind honorable senators that though Germany and Russia were not original members, and the United States of America' has never joined, the League has rendered considerable service to the world. It has eliminated the sufferings of many nations, and repeatedly preserved peace between nations that were on the very verge of war. Under these circumstances, a grave responsibility rests upon those in our midst who state that we should not support the League. Members of the Opposition have avoided the issue which briefly is this: Are we to retire from the League of Nations or carry out our obligations to it to the full? There is no middle course. We have either to accept our obligations or -leave the League. 1 am sure that  Senator Collings  would be the last to declare that we should retire from the League. Does the Labour party stand for the desertion of the League? The only alternative is to support the League to the full. One cannot give part service to the League; we must either accept the Covenant as a whole with its disabilities, disadvantages and dangers, if we are to strive in the interests of suffering civilization and humanity - for that is the League's objective - or withdraw from it. Every law, both human and divine, stands for the observance of covenants, and I think that it is nowhere better expressed than in the Koran : " Oh ye faithful keep your covenants". That is all that the League and the British Empire are asking. This Parliament is asked in its small way to implement one small part of our covenants. Our good faith, honesty of purpose and self-interest go hand in hand on this occasion. A few days ago, I said in this chamber that Australia, by reason of its isolated position in the southern seas, has much to gain from loyal adherence to the League. 
As regards the position in Europe, I speak with some degree of feeling, because T was a signatory on behalf of Australia to the Kellogg Pact. France, one of the nations represented at that ceremony, has had personal experience of war, and ir, has suffered more bloodshed on its own fields, than probably any other nation in Europe. Within a period of 50 years, France has endured two invasions, and has had its soil drenched with the blood of its own sons, the invaders, and those who went to its rescue. I never knew an assembly in which fervour reached such a point as on the occasion of  Mr. Kellogg's  visit to France. The document, variously called the Pact of Paris, and the Briand-Kellogg Pact, evoked in the French people feverish enthusiasm for what they believed to be an implementation of the work of the League of Nations - an accession of strength to the League, fathered and fostered by the American people. As I have mentioned, the French knew the horrors pf war and experienced its disabilities and disadvantages. Their fields had been trampled by the rude foot of the invader for centuries past, and the French impressed upon me at the time their tremendous enthusiasm, almost a religious fervour, for the Kellogg Pact which outlawed war as a weapon among civilized people. The ceremony of signing the pact left an indelible impression on my mind. We in this country know nothing of the horrors of war close to our shores. Our country has been free, thank God, from even a civil disturbance involving any great shedding of blood. It has never felt the foot of the invader. The unfortunate people of Europe who know what war means, its disabilities and its consequences, desire only lasting peace. In these circumstances, regardless of party considerations, we should support this instrument of peace devised by man for his own protection and security, and give it an opportunity to succeed. We have no quarrel with Italy, a country to which modern civilization owes a great deal. Although the League may have some complaints concerning the conditions prevailing in Abyssinia, we have no quarrel with that country. Whatever may be the' merits of the dispute, Italy and Abyssinia as members of the League are bound by the Covenant, and should have adhered to it. Abyssinia was willing to allow the dispute to be settled by the proper tribunal constituted by the League. and Italy having declined, must submit to whatever may be the consequences of the action it has decided to take. Some observations have been made concerning the far-reaching effects of article 16 of the Covenant. Whatever tho Covenant may provide concerning the existence of " a state of war " between certain signatories to the Covenant, the League, in certain resolutions with which honorable senators are familiar, has interpreted those words. These resolutions were passed because the principle of peace is fundamental to the existence of the League. The League which was constituted to ensure the territorial integrity of all nations, and especially the weaker ones, and the existence of a state of war is contrary to the fundamental principles upon which the League is founded. In pursuance of the League's interpretation of article 16, the Member States are now acting together to bring about a stoppage of the carnage at present proceeding in Northern Africa. Some have said that the League has failed. Has the League actually failed? Has it ever previously been really tested? If time permitted, I could draw a clear distinction between the situation which existed in Manchukuo and that which prevails in Abyssinia to-day. I could refer honorable senators to the Lytton report which declared that there was some justification for a general cleaning up of the position in Northern China, but, I feel that Japan was wrong in adopting the methods it did. There may be something to be said in extenuation of Italy's policy towards Abyssinia, but countries which have subscribed to the Covenant of the League, are bound by its principles and procedure. The League failed to settle the Manchukuo dispute, but that does not mean that it will fail to solve the problem now before it. The League which was established in the interests of peace has the support of the French Government, and its representatives at the League Council expressed in no uncertain terms the loyalty of Franc? towards the Covenant. M. Laval said - 
We are bound to a solidarity which will determineour duty. Our obligations are inscribed in the Covenant. France will not fail to discharge them. 
We are now asking that Australia, which is a member of the League and a signatory to the Kellogg Pact, shall discharge its obligations to the League. The United States of America has declared that it is not averse from the present proceedings, and Germany, which is not adopting an attitude of indifference, is opposed to Italian aggression. Soviet Russia, which is now a member of the League, is loyally discharging the international obligations it has assumed. Surely, in our loyalty to the Covenant, we shall not lag behind Britain, France, or the Soviet Republic! M. Laval, in stating the position which he considers the members of the League should occupy, says - 
This partnership in responsibilities of all kinds in all circumstances of time and place, a responsibility which is implied for the future by such a declaration, marks a date in the history of the League of Nations. I rejoice thereat with my country, for my country fully understands the need for close collaboration with the United Kingdom in the defence of peace and for the protection of Europe. 
The attitude adopted by the members of the League has been well expressed in various sections of the Australian press. One paragraph reads - 
It will now remain to be seen whether Britain and France will call Mussolini's bluff. 
It is unthinkable to me that the great Australian Labour party has lost its soul,, and will fail in its duty by declining to honour Australia's obligations. 
I am surprised that, in discussing such an important subject, the Leader of the Opposition should suggest that an attempt is being made to "put something over " the party to which he belongs.I am sorry that that party does not possess the spirit it once possessed, and that, for party reasons, it is unable to honour the obligations to which it previously committed itself. Is that the spirit and the atmosphere in which this subject should be discussed? It is not in a spirit of anger or bitterness towards Italy that sanctions are being imposed, but in a desire to serve the best interests of civilization. 
Some misapprehension appears to exist in the minds of many persons concerning the meaning and use of the word " sanctions ". Ordinarily, " sanction " means approval, but in League circles the word has a different meaning. It is doubtful whether British law owes much to the Roman law, but the French, Italian, Dutch. and some other systems of jurisprudence are closely associated with it. Those who have been in South Africa recall that, in the Dutch legal system, there is a fair sprinkling of Roman law. 
That is so. Roman law, which has exerted a wide influence on France and other Continental countries, has also influenced the language inwhich the terms of the Covenant have been expressed. This is not surprising if regard be had to the fact that French is one of the official languages in use at the League. At the Council meetings of the League, French and English are the principal languages spoken. The existing legal system has therefore found expression in various articles of the Covenant, and the term " sanctions " is commonly used to express punishments or deterrents.  Sir John  Salmond, who was a judge of the Supreme Court of New Zealand, explains the term " sanctions " in his book on  Jurisprudence  in. this way - 
The instrument of coercion by which any system of imperative law is enforced is called a " sanction," and any rule so enforced is said to be sanctioned. 
He goes on to say that the term " sanction " is derived from Roman law. The  Sanctis  was originally that part of a statute which established a penalty or made other provisions for its enforcement. By an easy transition the term " sanction " has come to denote the penalty itself and has been used in international law for many years. 
Honorable senators generally have given the bill their blessing. Australia must either honour its obligations under the League Covenant or resign its membership of the League of Nations. I cannot follow the logic of honorable senators opposite. They say - "We do not believe in the participation by Australia in the dispute between Italy and Abyssinia. We decline to carry out our obligations under the Covenant. We shall not vote to impose sanctions on the Italian people. We want to keep out". I put it to them that such a position would be absolutely inconsistent with our continued membership of the League.  Senator Collings  has told us that Labour's policy is the adequate defence of Australia. What would be the attitude of the Labour party if Australia were menaced by a foreign nation? If we cannot be trusted to support the League in a dispute between other member States, would Labour expect the League to take adequate measures to defend Australia if this country were threatened ? On behalf of my leader, who unfortunately is absent this evening, I thank honorable members for their assurances of support for the bill. 
I wish to announce at this stage, on behalf of the Opposition, that we do not intend to obstruct the passage of the bill in committee. We know that whatever we may say we cannot prevent its passage, and that any attempt to delay it may result in reprisals on a future occasion. I can, however, assure Ministers that we shall oppose the third reading of the bill. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 2 and 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 - 
A person, firm or company shall not, directly or indirectly, except under licence (the proof whereof shall lie upon him or it) - 
Amendment (by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan) agreed to - 
That after the word " not " the words " during the continuance of this act " be inserted. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 7 agreed to. 
Clause 8 (Aiding and abetting). 
 I should like the Minister to explain the position of the Italian Consul and state whether the rights of the diplomatic service willconflict with the provisions of the measure. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses  9  and  10  agreed to. 
Clause  11 - 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this act, prescribing alt matters which are required or permitted to be prescribed, or which arc necessary or convenient to be proscribed, for carrying out or giving effect to this act, and in particular for prescribing penalties not exceeding a line of One hundred pounds or imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months for any offence against the regulations. 
.  - I move - 
That after the word "for" (second occurring) the following words be inserted: - 
providing for the establishment of a clearing office for the receipt, custody and payment, in such manner as is specified in the regulations, of moneys due by persons in Australia or its Territories to persons in Italy, in such -cases or classes of cases as are so specified; 
requiring, in such cases or classes of cases as are specified in the regulations, persons in Australia or its Territories owing moneys to persons in Italy to pay those moneys to the account of a clearing office established in accordance with this Act; 
providing for the prohibition or avoidance of contracts for the assignment of debts due by persons in Australia of its Territories to persons in Italy and 
" 
The object of the amendment is tolerably clear. There is no doubt that, when this legislation conies into force, many debts will be dueby persons in Australia to persons in Italy in respect of various business transactions, and it is only right that the debtors shouldbe required to discharge their obligations. It is proposed to establish, as was done during the Great War, a clearing house, to enable that to be done. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments ; report adopted. 
 It can scarcely be imagined that I, as Leader of the Opposition, would allow this opportunity to pass without making some attempt to express very strong disapproval of the tactics adopted by some honorable senators in the course of this debate. I pay tribute to those who, in debating the measure, were at least not guilty of slander and misrepresentation of the views of myself and the party I represent. I do not object to honorable senators drawing their own deductions from what I said, but I strongly resent attempts - which I believe were deliberate - to put into my mouth words which I did not use. I can say truthfully that I am not thin-skinned, and that in this or any other debate I have not offered opposition merely for the sake of opposition. Yet this afternoon I was subjected to insult after insult, both personal and political. I do not object to such attacks, but I take this opportunity of saying that I know why they were made. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I cannot see that a point of order arises. I had noticed that the honorable senator had said that he had been subjected to insults. That was a reflection on the Chair which I was prepared to allow to pass in the belief that the honorable senator was smarting under a sense of defeat. I assure him, howover, that he got as much protection from the Chair as he was entitled to. I remind him also that he constantly interrupted other honorable senators. The honorable senator cannot live in a glass house and throw stones, without having stones thrown at him in retaliation. On the whole, the debate on the second reading  was, as was said by the PostmasterGeneral, conducted on a high plane, and during the course of it every honorable senator was reasonably protected by the Chair. 
I hope,  Mr. President,  that any remarks which I have made will not be taken as a reflection on yourself or on your conduct in the chair. This afternoon you were most magnanimous towards me and for that I pay tribute to you now. I realize that you could have been more severe towards me. However, that does not alter the fact that I was fully justified in what I said and I emphasize that I would repeat my offence to-morrow under similar provocation. The honorable senator who raised the point of order was one of those to whom I referred. At one stage he asked, by interjection : " Does not the party to which the Leader of the Opposition belongs, impose sanctions on the boss?" I hope that I shall be corrected if on any occasion I should say by interjection anything which is untrue or in which  I may have drawn wrong deduction from the remarks of any honorable senator. The interjection to which I have just referred sounds fairly innocent to a man who has not been educated in the' policy and procedure of the working class. 
I accept the honorable senator's correction, but another honorable senator, led on by  Senator Herbert  Hays, said that the Labour party imposed sanctions " on the boss." 
The honorable senator twitted the party to which I belong with having imposed restrictions industrially, or suggested that we believed in sanctions industrially. If the honorable senator knows anything of the history of the trades union movement, he must be aware that any sanctions imposed industrially were invoked because of the cruel conditions which prevailed in industry in Australia in days gone by. Gentlemen who belong to the class to which the honorable senator belongs, ought to go on their knees and thank Providence every hour of their lives that such a factor as the trades union movement came into the industrial life of Australia, and that power was given to it by this and other Parliaments to impose restrictions upon bad employers. Were it not for the power of this party, industrially and politically, to restrain the dispossessed in this community, to restrain the hungry and those who have not, and to restrain those upon whom the intolerable burden of unemployment is imposed by a bad social order, it would not be only the dividends or profits of the section which honorable senators opposite support, but their very lives which would be in jeopardy to-day. 
I ask the honorable senator not to pursue that line of argument. 
That country is being supplied with petrol and it is getting all the petrol it needs. 

 Senator Dein interjected : " Sanctions have not yet been actually applied." Then I went on - 
How long more will it be before the League gets on with the real job? We propose to supply food to Italy, but apparently supplies of a more essential commodity - petrol - are to be continued although this will enable Italy to operate against Abyssinia, its mechanized army, including its great fleet of aeroplanes. The Leader of the Government does not toll us why petrol has not been specifically placed on the list of sanctions or mentioned in this bill. 1 suggest that the reason is that great international interests - the oil producers of different countries - want to go on reaping unholy profits out of Italy. Deny Italy petrol and immediately its capacity to attack Abyssinia and prosecute the present conflict would be prejudiced. 

 Senator Hardy endeavoured to make it appear that I hoped that Italy would be allowed to carry on, whereas I advocated that Italy should be denied oil so that it could not carry on the war. I have been accused of having twitted  Senator Grant  on a previous occasion with not understanding the Covenant of the League of Nations and the good work which the League was doing. I have not had time to read the speech which I made on that occasion, but it is true that I did extol the League of Nations and asked  Senator Grant  to remember, not its failures, but its successes. I still stand for the League of Nations, and when the Senate is asked to vote money for its support, I shall energetically and enthusiastically support the proposal. But if it means the sacrificing of one Australian life I do not. believe that we should stand by the League in a dispute such as that between Italy and Abyssinia. 
TheStanding Orders are silent on the point raised. In such circumstances, the practice laid down in  May  prevails, namely, that at each succeeding stage of a bill speeches may be delivered in the same strain as on previous occasions, the only limitation being that, on the third reading, they shall be more limited and more direct than in the earlier stages. In view of that unchallengable authority, I cannot uphold the point raised.  Senator Collings  is endeavouring to correct a misapprehension regarding his previous remarks. 
Labour party will keep Australia out of war if possible. Because I say these things, nearly all the adjectives in the dictionary, and others which are not there, have been hurled against me. I have been told that I have advocated a policy of cowardice. The term " funkhole " has been used freely. I have heard most of these things before. Between 1914 and 1918, I was called all sorts of names. At that time, " funkhole " had not been coined, but its equivalent " hollow-log " was freely used. I was told that I was always looking for a hollow-log. If it is true that I advocate a policy of cowardice, then I am a coward, and as such I shall endeavour to persuade my fellow countrymen to be cowards also should -an attempt be made to send Australians to the other side of the world to engage in old world feuds. 
I compliment the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  on the restrained character of his reply to the second-reading debate. If he had let himself go, he could have been guilty of a lot of unbrotherly, and perhaps, unparliamentary expressions. There was, however, nothing new in what the Minister said. I am old enough to remember other "wars than the Great War of 1914-18, and I know the arguments that were used in connexion with them. Wc were told that the Groat War was a war to end war. Now, it appears that we shall have to go to war in order to protect the League of - Nations and to ensure peace. Peace is not the fruit of war. A man armed with a gun is not the best advocate of peace. When the existing social order has been altered, it may be possible to get a League of Nations which will prevent war. Why has the world not implemented the various conventions of the League of Nations? 
The whole of this sitting has been occupied in railing against the Opposition. One of the penalties of greatness is that the Leader of the Opposition has to hop over first and be the target for the shot and shell. But right down the years I have thrived on criticism. However, I realize that regardless of what we say the servile majority supporting the Government will enable this measure to be passed. Nevertheless this Government cannot silence the three men who constitute the Opposition. Although hour after hour is spent in attempts to show us where we are wrong and in distorting passages from our speeches, we shall not be prevented from making ourselves as effective in opposition as possible.Without the Opposition, this chamber would be worthless as a legislative body. I remind the PostmasterGeneral and honorable senators who have figured in the denunciation of the Labour party that we are  His  Majesty's Opposition, and without us in this chamber the procedure of constitutional government becomes a farce. Let ii be remembered that no bill can become law in this Parliament until we have expressed our views on it, if we so desire. These somewhat disjointed remarks come from the bottom of my heart. I regret that I have been unable to persuade a majority of the Senate to oppose the bill, because I firmly believe that the ultimate result of its passage will be not to stop the conflict between Italy and Abyssinia, hut to embroil Australiain another world conflict. 
I congratulate  Senator Hardy  upon the able manner in which he marshalled his so-called facts; but 1 was surprised that the honorable senator should accuse the Labour party of being in favour of the export of arms to Italy. The Labour party has always been opposed to the private manufacture and export of arms, and consequently cannot be accused of favouring their export. 
At the conclusion of his speech  Senator Hardy  said that if Australia did not support sanctions it would mean the further development of a policy of selfsufficiency or economic nationalism. In passing this measure we are forcing Italy and perhaps other countries to become even more self-contained than at present. 
Every war and every rumour of war has the effect of developing economic nationalism in order to reduce the risk of defeat. It has also been said that we have opposed this measure for party purposes, and the next moment we. are told that there are few people behind us. How can the two statements be reconciled? In order to clarify the position perhaps I should say that the members of the Labour party have no sympathy with Italy or its dictator. Mussolini. Any one who has read of the Fascist development in Italy must realize that the members of the Labour party have no love for Mussolini. 
Yes, he has been responsible for leaders of the trade union movement being tied behind motor cars and dragged through the streets of Italy until the poor devils died. We knowhow they have been persecuted and illtreated. How can it be said that we have any regard for Italy and its leader? On the other hand we have no love for Abyssinia. Only to-night the Parliamentary Librarian showed me a book published by the League of Nations picturing the horrors being perpetrated in that country. No one can peruse that book without feelings of horror at the way in which certain Abyssinian people are treated. We have definitely decided to take a certain line of action because we feel that in supporting the League of Nations in this dispute we may be embroiling Australia in another war. Only a few days ago I read the following comments by  Mr. Walter  Duranty, one of the world's most prominent international journalists. He said - 
The development of the Italo-Abyssinian affair has concentrated Europe's thought more than ever on the future, and in the opinion of European capitals has hastened the day when the world will be plunged into a conflict more terrible than anything in history. 
That is the opinion, not of the members of the Labour party in this chamber, but of a man in close contact with international affairs. He continued - 
This shadow of coming war looms black and threatening across all Europe which is cowering and trembling in the darkness for fear of the wrath to come. The majority of the League powers have little faith in the League, but fearing the coming war they clutch at the League as a drowningman cluches at a straw . . . Armament factories all over Europe arc working full blast obviously for war giving prosperity to shareholders and employees . . . The fact is thatEurope is preparing for war and neither statesmen nor theman in the street believe it is avertible. 
When we say that thereis every possibility of war, we are accused of suffering from hysteria; but there is no justification for that criticism when prominent men in Europe Bend such messages to Australia. Honorable senators opposite are now silent. In the past members of the Labour party have supported the appropriation of money to defray the expenses of the League. We shall do that again, simply because we believe that it. is endeavouring to ensure peace. We do not however believe that it can prevent all wars, or that we must support it in every action which it takes. The right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes)  said - 
The adoption of the principles of the Covenant tied the hands of the powers. Individual action was prohibited. Eur years the peace-loving nations of the world have been moving in a world of unrealities. Because they were sincerely desirous of upholding the principled upon which the League of Nations rested, they refrained from taking action to check the ambitions designs of those nations which landed the League with their tongues in their cheeks. The League of Nations established to ensure the territorial integrityof all nations - especially the weaker ones - has not only failed to protect them, but has created conditions that encourage aggression. 
The views I have just expressed are not those of a member of the Labour party, but of a gentleman who until it few days ago was a member of the Government. Itis easy for honorable senators opposite to play upon the emotions of the people by speaking of the good old Mother Country and the boys of the bulldog breed. Honorable senators in opposition who have similar feelings contend that thepeople should know exactly what is happening, and should they decide to support sanctions we shall have nothing further to say. The course we are following is to ensure peace and to safeguard Australian development in such a way that there will be no need for war. 
SenatorFoll.- Does the honorable senator think that Australia should remain a member of the League? 
I have heard that parrot-like cry again and again. 
Then I shall say it is not a parrot-like cry, but that of a magpie. It is puerile for honorable senators supporting the Government to ask repeatedly certain questions that have been answered on so many occasions. Our views on this subject are well known. We contend that war will never be prevented by the imposition of sanctions; that, to ensure peace among the nations, we must eliminate the basic causes of conflict. It was thought, when the peace treaty was signed, that Germany was utterly crushed. To-day Germany is as strong and virile as ever, and now threatens the peace of Europe. Within two years, it will be demanding the return of its colonies, the return of Memel and Danzig, and the elimination of the Polish corridor. It has not lost sight of its objective - a Mittel Europa extending from the Baltic to the Persian Gulf. Italy, too, is desirous of expansion. Its dependence on raw materials for the development of its secondary industries is compelling Mussolini to look to Northern Africa for the satisfaction of its needs. I repeat that we shall never eliminate the struggle between nations unless we come to some reasonable agreement for the supply of raw materials to those nations in need of it. 
It is true that the Soviet Government is, in this matter, supporting the Commonwealth Government; but it did not always hold its present views concerning the League of Nations. In a speech to the July Plenum of the Central Committee of the Communist Partyof the Soviet Union in 1928., Stalin stressed the danger of imperialist wars, and intervention in the following words :  - 
The most popular method of lulling the working class and diverting it from the struggle against the danger of war is presentday pacifism with its League of Nations, the gospel of " peace," the " outlawry of war," the nonsense about "disarmament" and so forth. Imperialist pacificism is an instrument for the preparation ofwar and for the masking of those preparations bypharisaical talk about peace. Without this pacifism and its instrument, the League of Nations, the 'preparations for war under present conditions would be impossible. 
That was Stalin's opinion of the League of Nations in 1928. To-day, theSoviet is behind the League. This merely shows that time brings changes in the outlook of governments, as well as of individuals. 
What has that to do with its present attitude? 
Recently the  Workers Weekly  stated - 
Should the demand for collective application of sanctions fail, and an imperialist war ensue, the conflict of Italian and British imperialism, the mass movement against war, and Fascism must be brought into action to change the imperial war into a war for the overthrow of capitalism. 
The Soviet Government is supporting this Government against Italy. The Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  this evening noted, with obvious pleasure, the fact that the Soviet has come into line. But although Russia is now supporting the League and this Government against Italy, its system of government is anathema to the imperialist nations within the League of Nations. It is anathema to Germany, and also to Italy. 
I presume that, measures or regulations, similar to the provisions contained in this bill will be carried by France, Great Britain, and possibly, also by Soviet Russia, thus indicating a community of interest between these three great powers; but the effectiveness of sanctions about to be imposed against Italy is likely to be impaired by the antagonism between the system of government operating in Russia and the systems in Great Britain and France. 
We who sit in Opposition have endeavoured to make it plain that we object to the application of sanctions against Italy because of the probable consequences to the people of this country, and I take this occasion to say to the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  that our attitude is summed up in the Latin phrase  Bella! Horrida bella!  We do not wish this country to be embroiled again in war overseas. It is apparent that a good deal of explanation is called for in regard to sanctions. There has been much splitting of hairs over it on the part of the Government. The former Minister for Health and Repatriation  (Mr. Hughes)  has said that sanctions mean war. In voting for sanctions when he believes that they will lead to war, he acted inconsistently. Yet members of this party are asked to follow  Mr. Hughes;  we prefer to be logical. After referring to the explanation by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  of the confusion among members of the Government in respect of this matter, the  Sydney Morning Herald  stated - 
<para pgwide="yes">There remains, as always, the possibility that the covenant-breaking State may, eschewing subtlety and taking to realism, electto make the imposition of sanctions a casus  belli  against a selected league member or members. That, of course, is the risk that has been admitted, though hesitatingly,by Ministers. 
That is what the Labour party is endeavouring to prove. In the same journal appears a quotation from an article by Professor Roberts in this week's  Sydney Mail - 
Once the economic screw (at Geneva) starts turning, it must bo twisted tighter and tighter unless collective action is to die of inanition or scorn. 
There is no doubt that, sanctions mean war. If we wish to make them effective - and I notice that Signor Mussolini within the last few days has threatened reprisals - we must continue to make them harder and harder until, as the  Sydney Morning Herald  pointed out, a covenant-breaking State takes to realism and elects to make the imposition of sanctions a cause of war. By admitting such risks to be attendant upon the imposition of sanctions, honorable senators opposite throw away their whole case, and prove that the views of the Labour party on this matter are sound.  Sir Austen  Chamberlain, the ex-Minister for Health and Repatriation  (Mr. Hughes), Sir John  Latham,  Sir Stafford  Cripps,  Mr. George  Lansbury, and members of the Independent Labour party in England, support our views. For the information of honorable senators who are not familiar with the divisions of the Labour party in Great Britain, I point out that the British Independent Labour party claims to be the intellectual section of the Labour movement in that country. That party has numbered among its members in die past  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald and Lord Snowden, two gentlemen who at the commencement of the last war were opposed to war, but who with the lapse of time, and by the good will of the people of England, became respectively Prime Minister and Chancellor of the Exchequer. Thus the Leader of the Opposition is able to stand a good deal of the verbal whipping of honorable senators opposite ; if he lives long enough, he may bc asked to become the Tory Prime Minister of Australia. Should that happen, I have no doubt that he will receive the plaudits of any honorable senator opposite who is then living. I recall that a gentleman named Joseph Cook came to this country some years 'ago, and after taking a prominent part in the Labour party, progressed, changed his political opinion, and was knighted.  Mr. Hughes  did likewise.  Sir Joseph  Cook,  at one stage of his career, said that " the destiny of Australia is to become a republic", and when that day arrives I shall welcome it. 
I am mentioning these matters because we as members of the Opposition have been ridiculed. In this debate, much has been said about courage. I am no braver than the average man, but I point out that it takes a good deal of courage to be one of an Opposition of three in this chamber of 36 members. The relative strengths of parties in the Senate en courage the majority to become hostile to the minority to an extraordinary degree. I have mentioned the political histories of  Sir Joseph  Cook and other distinguished men to point out that leaders of minorities who have been much abused by the majority have ended their careers by leading the majority. This bill should not be passed. Although the Opposition numbers  only three, we may be the intellectual three of the 3U honorable senators in this chamber. It may be that we see further into the future than do honorable senators opposite. Our ideas on this matter are sound. Honorable senators opposite have said that the war is not on; the war is on. Although Italy has penetrated a distance of 50 miles into Abyssinian territory, it has not made a declaration of war, and, it is stated, Abyssinia is not at war although it is being bombed by Italians and being overrun by Italian tanks and armies. We claim that the war will extend immediately sanctions are imposed. There cannot be the slightest doubt about that, and in that view we arn supported by the greatest organ of conservative opinion in this country - the  Sydney Morning Herald. 
The word " sanctions " is used. It has been alleged by honorable senators who support the Government that sanctions have been applied in our economic struggles, but I had never before heard the word used in that connexion. We do not consider that we are at war in the military sense when we engage in industrial fights. Economic sanctions, I maintain, inevitably mean war. The  Sydney Morning Herald  holds that view. 

 - Senator Dein, in the course of his speech on the second reading, said that Mussolini had evidently come to the conclusion that all the nations of the world are of the same "kidney" as the Labour party. My opinion is that when Mussolini realized that the League of Nations would not take action against Japan for its invasion of Manchukuo and China, he thought it would be quite all right for Italy to invade Abyssinia. The reason why no action was taken by the League against Japan was that the dispute was of too little interest to the principal Member States to make action worth while. The United States of America practically invited the League to intervene in the Sino-Japanese dispute, but the invitation was not accepted. In the Italo-Abyssinia dispute, however, the interests of the nations which were allies in the last war - and those nations are the principalMember States of the League - are vitally concerned. There are, for instance, the French interests in the Suez Canal and Abyssinia and the British interests in Egypt and Abyssinia. If Great Britain, France, and Soviet Russia were not supporting the imposition of sanctions, Mussolini would snap his fingers at the League of Nations.I do not think that any honorable senator will deny that sanctions must be pressed if they are to be effective. Unless they are pressed the last state of the League will be worse than its first, for it will become a laughing stock. But the enforcement of sanctions is undoubtedly likely to lead to war on a wide scale. If the two groups of the Labour party in Australia were alone in this view, they might reconsider their position; but thatis not the case. It will be a very serious thing for Australia if it. is to be drawn into every dispute that the powerful nations of the world, including Great Britain, the United States of America, Japan, Germany, France, Italy and Russia, have in regard to colonial possessions. 
I say that we should not, hurry into war. We should take all care that we do not give offence to the powerful nations of the world. If we are to become embroiled in every international dispute that occurs, we shall be in a most unhappy position. There is nothing disloyal about the attitude of the Labour party on this subject. If the majority of the people of Australia determined that the nation should go to war, we should need to examine the whole positionvery carefully; but we should not rush hot-foot into every dispute of an international character. Without doubt, the outlook of the nations of Europe is imperialistic. Unless they can reach a reasonable understanding between themselves with the object of pooling the economic resources of the world, or unless they experience a change of heart, numerous wars are likely to occur in the future. I have no desire to see Australia dragged into every dispute that occurs. If the League of Nations were functioning effectively- 
It is attempting to function; but for how long can it function peacefully? 
I know that nothing that I may say will influence the Government. Even the eloquence of a Demosthenes, or the reasoning powers of an Einstein, would not cause it to turn aside from the course it is determined to pursue. The Labour party is justified in opposing this bill, and I am convinced that, if the question of participation in war were submitted to the people at a referendum there would be an overwhelming majority against participation. Instead of preserving peace, the action of the Government will tend to bring about 
Avar. During this debate, honorable senators supporting the Government have repeated the parrot cry: "Smash the Leagueand what is the alternative?" They claim that world opinion is behind the League because 50 nations are opposed to Italy. But if France, Britain and Russia were taken from that number, the League would bo practically without strength. When the conflict is over, the world will again revert to the old system of maintaining a balance of power by grouping and alliances. War between Italy and Abyssinia could have been prevented hadthe League said to Italy when trouble first arose: "You must not send a soldier to Abyssinia because you must not attack another member of the League." Right throughout the negotiations, France has been seeking to evade its responsibilities.. Soviet Russia is at present ranged with France and Britain in support of the League; but what would the position of the League be if Russia withdrew from the war, as it did from the Great War? 
I agree that Australia should co-operate withthe rest of the Empire as far as it can; but, even if Great Britain did not exist, Australia would not be left unprotected, because it could make friendly alliances with other nations. Some honorable senators supporting the Government would make it appear that, because the Opposition is small, it has a weak case. That is not so. The Australian Labour party has advanced good reasons why this 'bill should not be passed, and future events will show that it has adopted the right attitude. As I have said, its stand on this issuehas the support of the majority of the people of Australia. 
[3.2]. -  by leave  - In continuance of the policy of the Government to inform Parliament from time to time of the various phases of the dispute between Italy and Abyssinia, I have to inform the Senate that a note of protest has boon received by the Commonwealth Government from the Government of Italy, on the procedure adopted by the members of the League of Nations against Italy. A copy of this note has been laid on the table of the Parliamentary Library for the information of honorable senators. 
The Commonwealth Government has received from the Secretary-General of the League of Nations, on behalf of the Co-ordination Committee, texts of four new proposals and a resolution regarding " contracts in course of execution," which have been transmitted to all members of the League. 
Proposal IIa. relates to the suspension of clearing or payments agreements with Italy. . It also provides for amounts in payment of the purchase price of Italian products already imported, or to be imported, in respect of which payment has not yet been made, to bo lodged in a national account, which will be employed for the settlement of claims arising from exports. There is no clearing agreement between Australia and Italy, and consequently no action is necessary in regard to the first part of this proposal. The Commonwealth Government hasaccepted the latter portion of the proposal, and the amendment to the Sanctions Bill introduced into the Senate on the 13th November, 1935, would enable the Commonwealth Government to give effect, by regulation, to the measure proposed. 
Proposal IIIa.: This proposal is that " books, newspapers and periodicals, maps and cartographical productions, or printed or engraved music," should be an exception to Proposal III., which prohibits imports from Italy or Italian colonies. The Commonwealth Government has accepted this exception to Proposal III., and provision will be made in the regulations under the act whereby such goods may be imported into Australia. 
Proposal IVa. : It will be recalled that Proposal TV. related to the prohibition of certain exports to Italy such as metallic ores, rubber and transport  animals, coming within the category of war material. The now proposal is that the list shall be extended by the prohibition of - 
Petroleum and its derivatives, by-products and residues. 
Pig iron, iron and steel (including alloy steels), cast, forged, rolled, drawn, stamped or pressed. 
Coal (including anthracite and lignite), coke and agglomerates, as well as fuels derived therefrom. 
I f the reply received by the Coordination Committee, and the information at its disposal warrant it, the Committee will propose to the governments of the members of the League a date for bringing the measures contemplated in this proposal into f orce. The Commonwealth Government has accepted Proposal 
IVa. in principle, and is notifying the Secretary-General of the League that it is prepared to put the measures into effect on the declared date. 
Proposal IVb. : By this proposal governments are asked to take measures to verify the destination of exports of prohibited products of Proposal TV., and in cases of abnormal increases in exports, totake steps to prevent products from reaching Italy or Italian possessions by indirect routes. The Commonwealth Government has decided that it will take steps to give effect to this proposal, and instructions have been issuedby the Australian Customs Department for the responsible officers of that department to report immediately any abnormal increases which come to notice, so that appropriate action may be token.The SecretaryGeneral of the League is being informed to this effect. 
In addition to the above-mentioned proposals, the Committee of Eighteen has adopted a resolution whereby it is proposed that certain contracts of essential importance entered into by governments, governmental institutions or institutions solely under government administration, on which not less than 20 per cent. of amounts due thereunder has been paid by the 19th October, 1935, may bo excepted from Proposal III. relating to the prohibition of imports from Italy. To ascertain the required information for the Coordination Committee about all such contracts in Australia, a communication has been addressed to all departments and to State governments asking for particulars of contracts in course of execution. When this information is received it will be incorporated in a general report to the Co-ordination Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has Italy submitted any terms to Great Britain or the League of Nations on which she is prepared to end the war in Abyssinia? 
If so, have these terms been submitted to the Australian Government? 
If so, what arc these terms ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCEThe right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answers: - 
No. 2 and 3. See answer to 1. 
Has the Leader of the Senate noticed in  Truth  newspaper, of the 10th November, an article headed - 
WHENTRUTH BOOTED DEFENCE DEPARTMENT. 
  Defeat Still Rankles. 
Why Be Annoyed,  Senator Pearce? 
On Thursday last,speaking on the proposed amendment to the Crimes Act, the Leader of the Senate was guilty of as gross an abuse of ministerial authority and parliamentary privilege 
Order ! The honorable senator must know that when asking a question, it is out of order to  read newspaper articles containing expressions of opinion, which would not be permitted to be used by honorable senators. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I do not read  Truth. 
Inquiries are being made, and replies will be furnished as soon as possible to  Senator Arkins  with reference to the offer of a subordinate position to  Mr. W.  J. Grieves, who for some years was leader in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Sydney Symphony Orchestra. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
Will the Government give consideration to the question of amending the Acts Interpretation Act in order to give the Senate power to disallow or amend a sub-regulation or a paragraph contained in a statutory rule? 
Is there any legal doubt as to the position which arises when a regulation, repealing other regulations, is disallowed? If so, will the Government consider amending the act to place the matter beyond doubt? 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer :  -  1 and 2. The question of introducing a bill to amend the Acts Interpretation Act is at present under consideration and the matters now brought under notice by the honorable senator will receive consideration in connexion with the drafting of the bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether he will inform the Senate what, if any, negotiations are in progress regarding the sale to a Japanese firm of a vast iron ore deposit in New Guinea, as reported in the  Sydney MorningHerald  of Monday last? 
No information has come to the notice of the Government concerning negotiations for the purchase of any iron ore deposits in New Guinea. 
 Senator McLeay  proposes to take  a  very important step when he  asks the  Senate to disallow Statutory Rule No. 30 under  the  Dried Fruits Export Control  Act.  The whole subject of  the  regulation-making power  has been  under discussion a great  deal  of late, including  the  honorable senator's speech on this subjectand  the  discussion in  the  Senate upon cognate subjects a  few  days before. The regulation-making power  has  gone through  two  stages -  first, the  actual  and  admitted growth of regulation-making power; and, secondly,  the  reaction in  the  public mind against  the  growing exercise of  that  power. The latter phase dates, I venture to think, from  the  publication some years  ago  of Lord Hewart's book,  The New Despotism.  As  the  Leader of  the  Senate  (Senator Pearce)  said,  the  noble lord  and  his book have  been  working overtime recently. This growth of  the  regulation-making power  has  been treated as an aggression on  the part, of the bureaucracy, but the bureaucracy has not usurped the functions which it exercises. Whatever powers it exercises have been granted it by a superior power - the Parliament - -which, in turn, has been granted such power by the people. How does it some about that Parliament has granted these extensive and extended powers to what, in a rather derogatory sense, has been termed a bureaucracy? That question is not difficult to answer. It has come about owing to the fact that to-day Parliament is itself performing functions more of n business and industrial character than it performed a generation ago. It has entered directly into business until to-day there is scarcely a primary industry, in Australia which has escaped its maternal attention. Let us go back another stage. Are these extended powers on the part of Parliament proof of aggression by Parliament? That drives us back a stage further. Parliament, as I have said, is responsive to the wishes of the people, and these incursions into the realms of business and industry have been under the pressure of the people themselves. They demand something, and  repeatedly  one party bidding for support will bring forward proposals for government intervention, and another party will submit more roseate proposals, and, as in the matter of currency, had politics drive out good politics, and we soon reach the stage when there is nothing occupying the political platform except such proposals as would have made our ancestors of a generation or two earlier turn in their graves. The deduction is that this cry of oppression of the people by a bureaucracy really means that the people themselves have raised up a bureaucracy and have endowed it with powers which they wish it to exercise. It may he that like Frankenstein they have raised a monster which is in process of devouring them. It has to be remembered that we are passing through very serious and difficult time3. Let us consider what is happening in industry to-day. Governmental assistance is afforded to our dried fruits, wheat, butter and other industries, and even our protective policy itself, in so far as it is not merely for reven'ue-raising purposes, is a phase of that. policy. These extensions .and incursions of the State into industry have rendered it necessary that there should be a bureaucracy - by that we mean nothing more than a government service - to look after the interests of the Government, for the one part, and of the people, for the other part. 
It can, and I myself would be perfectly willing to trust it. I merely point to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and members of his party as persons who bid for political support by promising the moon, knowing full well that they cannot fulfil their promises. No better illustration of what I have said can be found than by reviewing what has happened in the very industry which is under discussion to-day. The Dried Fruits Export Control Actwas passed in 1924 at the request, almost unanimous, of the industry. At that time the industry was at a very low chb. More was being produced than could be consumed in Australia, and the surplus production cost more to deliver at the seaboard than it could realize when sold overseas. That state of 'affairs, of course, could not go on for very long. At the time this act was passed the total annual production of the industry was 30,000 tons. Assistance had 'been granted by Parliament on more than one occasion in response to the overwhelming request of those engaged in the industry. If ever an experiment was justified by results, such an experiment was the intervention of the Government in the dried fruits business. No other primary industry in Australia has had such a record of success ; production has reached as much as 75,000 tons a year. Present production is not so high, but on several occasions during recent years it lias reached the figure I have mentioned. 
That is a matter for the industry; it will have to adjust itself to conditions, otherwise it may reach a position, as has happened in some other industries in certain States, where the more that is produced, the less is the return to the producer. At the moment I am dealing only with the present position of the industry and with the attack made by the honorable senator upon the regulations under which it has been enabled to attain its present position. How was this excellent result brought about? It was achieved by creating a board and endowing it with very far-reaching powers, which are exercised by means of these regulations which are now being attacked. The board was set up under section 13 of the act. The regulations may be attacked upon two grounds. It might be said that they are not authorized by the act. That view apparently was expressed by  Senator Hardy  by interjection when  Senator McLeay  was speaking. With the greatest respect, I do not think that  Senator !McLeay  is obliged to show that these regulations go beyond the authority of the act. That is purely a legal question ; if they go beyond that authority then on the first occasion on which they are attacked in the courts, they will be set aside. As a matter of fact this very question was raised in the courts and only within the last few weeks the High Court decided 'by a unanimous judgment that not only have these regulations been framed within the regulation-making power conferred by the act, but also that every portion of this act and every regulation in it is strictly legal. The second ground on which the regulations may he attacked is that they are politically unwise. I take it that this is the ground on which  Senator McLeay  bases his Attack. 
I do not intend to go into details on this matter. It is sufficient to say that the board which was set up under this act consists of eight members, three of whom are nominated by the Government and the remaining five elected by the industry. The three Government nominees are not men with any special knowledge of the dried fruits business, but they are men of the very highest standing in the commercial world and have had the greatest experience in business generally. As to the elected members, every one of them is, or has been, associated with the Australian Dried Fruits Association which is shortly called the A.D.F.A. However, there is nothing remarkable in that fact, because if any body of men propose to elect representatives to deal with a particular business, they will naturally elect men who have had experience in that business or industry. And it seems that at the time the board was first elected every man of any standing in the industry was a member of the voluntary organization known as the A.D.F.A. 
I am coming to that point. If elected representatives do not give satisfaction to the growers as a whole - and one of the fetishes repeatedly put forward to-day is that each industry should be allowed to control its own destiny - the growers have ample opportunity to replace them. The first election was held, in 1925, and elections have been held every second year up to 1935, and there has scarcely been any change in the personnel of the board during that period. At any rate, I do not think any such change has been brought about by an actual vote of the growers. 
Exactly ; the great majority of the growers are satisfied. There has been dissent of a minor character in South Australia and perhaps because of this  Senator McLeay  has moved in this matter. Let us now examine the depth of that discontent.  Mr. Howie,  whose name has been mentioned in this discussion - I am glad that  Senator McLeay  has withdrawn the allegations against him - had to submit himself for election so recently as last year. He was opposed by a nominee of the Independent Fruit Growers Association, whose cause  Senator McLeay  appears to champion. In that election  Mr. Howie  obtained 970 votes as against 238 cast for the nominee of the Independent Fruit Growers Association. Let us now examine the position of the Independent Fruit Growers Association as judged hy the contribution of its members to the total production of dried fruits. The seven firms which constitute the Independent Growers Association were licensed to ship 1,698 tons of sultanas, currants and lexias  up to the 30th April, 1935, and from that date up to the present time &lt;a further 799 tons, making a total of 2,497 tons. The total shipments of dried fruits up to last Monday totalled 48,971 tons, and before the season has closed, more than 50,000 tons of sultanas, currants and  lexias  will have been exported. In order to show how effective tha marketing operations of the board have been, I mention that almost every pound of the total production for the year recently closed has .been disposed of and the growers paid therefor. 
Many times during his speech,  Senator McLeay  said that the board was dominated by the Australian Dried Fruits Association.  His  remarks are resented by the " commercial " members of the board. I propose to read some passages from n statement prepared by the vicechairman of the board  (Mr. Bell),  in order to show how little ground there is for the suggestion that the hoard has acted  other than in a strictly judicial way in carrying out its duties. In paragraphs 4 and 5 of his statement,  Mr. Bell  says - 
It is to be conceded that the elected members of the board have, in the case of tho representatives in Victoria and South Australia, been prominent members of the great voluntary  organization  known as the Australian Dried Fruits Association, and, hud growers resented in any way the association of those members with that voluntary organization, which has done so much for the dried fruit industry in Australia, they have had frequent opportunities of replacing such leaders of the industry as  Messrs.  Howie. Johnstone and Malloch from the other candidates who have stood iu opposition to these candidates but who have been overwhelmingly defeated from time to time. 
It has  been  asserted that  tha  policy of  the  board has hee" unduly  influenced  by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, but, as a matter of fact, tho general outlines of the policy followed by the board and more particularly' the principles applicable to the control of the export and sale abroad of Australian dried fruit have been conceived and proposed by the commercial members of the board who were appealed to by the Government to lend their commercial experience for the benefit of the .industry. 
They are Messrs. Bell, Thomas and Malloch. 
Each member receives an allowance of three guineas for each sitting day, an amount which does not adequately compensate them for the time and effort devoted to the interest of the industry.  Mr. Bell's  statement continues - 
On no occasion has the policy or the principles enunciated by the commercial members of the board been dissented from by tile elected members of the board who have found the views and experience of the commercial members wholly acceptable and beneficial to thu industry. 
So far from any charge of undue influence by members of the Australian Dried Fruits Association,' the principal responsibility for the drawing up of the plans of tho board has rested on those gentlemen who were co-opted to the board as Government nominees in  order  that their commercial experience might be applied to the difficulties of tho industry. On no occasion has there 'been a dissentient minority in the board and the recommendations have been unanimous as being necessary to the well-being of the industry and to ensure equal treatment for every individual grower whether a member of any organization or a grower acting independently of the Australian Dried Fruits Association. Each grower wherever situated or whatever his acreage or production has obtained absolute equity in regard to thu sale of his produce when exported from Australia. 
It is a remarkable fact that, so intent have been the principal commercial members of the board on absolute fairness, on no occasion have these gentlemen even entered the offices of the Australian Dried Fruits Association. 
Realizing the delicate nature of their duties, these gentlemen have taken care to leave no room for scandal. 
I cannot. It certainly is not the type of humour which  Punch  would be disposed to pay for. I had hoped, that the honorable senator, having had time for reflection, would not have persisted with his motion to destroy something which has proved a success only because of the painstaking efforts and self-sacrifice of those responsible for it. I do not know whether he realizes that the whole industry would be thrown into a state of chaos if his motion were carried. Yesterday, the honorable senator indicated that he intended to seek leave to amend his motion, and I had expected that he would do so this afternoon. As the motion has not been amended, the situation is unaltered and the Senate is asked to disallow the whole statutory rule. 
Although the honorable senator is proceeding with the motion as it is set out on the notice-paper, the Government realizes, partly from information that he has himself given and partly from statements collected from private sources, that his objections are principally to sub-regulations 3, 4, 5, 6 and 16 of regulation 7. The honorable senator, I understand, seeks to have them set aside, if he can, without disallowing the whole resolution. 
Regulation 7 is very long, containing seventeen subregulations, but it contains actually the whole of the important provisions of the regulations. The remaining provisions are merely formal or of a machinery character. Of regulation 7, sub-regulations 3, 4, 5, 6 and 16 are the vital parts; hence they are actually the vital parts of the whole of the regulations. They set out the terms and conditions upon which licences to export dried fruits may be granted. sub-regulation 3 reads - 
That the licensee shall ship all dried fruits through and to such agentsas are authorized by the board. 
This does not differ very much from the powers which were contained in the regulations passed in 1927, in which the board was empowered to limit the agents in the United Kingdom and New Zealand to whom dried fruits could be shipped by licensed exports. The intention of the present clause is to give the board power to control the shipments of dried fruits to all export markets. The board considers that this provision is necessary, so that restriction may be placed on the number of agents handling Australian dried fruits in overseas markets, in order to prevent underselling and unfair competition, and in order that the fixed price which has been agreed upon shall be observed. The difference that exists between the regulation passed in 1927 and the present one is twofold - (a.) that the board has now authorityto control, not only the agents through whom fruit must be sold, but the agents to whom they must be shipped to foreign markets; and 
the application of this extended authority to all foreign markets, and not to the United Kingdom and New Zealand alone. 
It will be seen that control of export here would be of little avail if the board did not control in some way the agents through whose hands this fruit passed overseas. 
They may be controlled by the issue to the exporter of a licence containing certain stipulations. Such a licence is granted only under certain conditions. The honorable senator may consider it remarkable that an extraterritorial power could be given by Australian legislation, but we must bow to the decision of the High Court judgment that such a provision is quite legal. The section under which that provision was made is - 
For the purpose of enabling the board effectively to control the export and the sale and distribution after export of Australian dried fruits, the Governor-General may by proclamation prohibit the export from the Commonwealth of any dried fruits, except in accordance with a licence issued by the Minister, subject to such conditions and restrictions as arc prescribed after recommendation to the Minister by the board. 
The point raised by  Senator Badman  was expressly dealt with by  Mr. Justice  Starke who, in his judgment, said - 
But the power of self-governing dominions to make laws having extra-territorial operation was considered by the Judicial Committee inCroft v.  Dunphy,  1933 A.C. 156. Once it is found, as I gather from that case, that theparticular topic of legislation is with respect of one of its powers enumerated in section 51. of the Constitution, upon which the Commonwealth Parliament may competently legislate for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth, then no reason exists for restricting the permitted scope of such legislation by any other consideration than is applicable to the legislation of a fully sovereign State. 
The licence did contain those provisions which put some check upon what the exporters might do, even in a foreign country, and the courthas decided that this lies within the power of the board. Another portion of regulation 7, to which particular objection is taken by  Senator McLeay,  is sub-regulation 4 - 
That the licensee shall ship all dried fruits through such person as the board determines. 
The only alteration made in this instance is that the word " company " which was originally included in the regulation, has been deleted and the word "person" substituted for it. Strange though it may seem, " person " here has a wider application than "company". This sub-regulation to which exception is taken, has been in operation for many years, and, so far as the board is aware, nas not met with any opposition from the industry. The reason for the alteration will appeal to honorable senators. An attempt was made on one occasion to ship goods by an American line. The control board had entered into an arrangement with the shipping companies to consign its goods by particular lines and a breach of the agreement would have been committed if any of its products had been consigned by an American line. When we remember the privileges extended to Australian ships in American waters, nobody will say that, if we curtail the privileges granted to American ships operating in Australian waters to the advantage of our own vessels, we shall have done anything wrong. The effect of the arrangement entered into by the control board with the shipping companies resulted in a saving of £40,000 per annum to the industry. 
Sub-regulation 5 relates to insurance - 
That the licensee shall insure each shipment of dried fruit3 with such person as the board determines. 
The board received overtures from a large insurance company which desired to obtain some of the business. The board replied that it had made arrangements with other companies. As a result of the wholesale bargaining power given to the board by this arrangement, the saving to the industry in respect of insurance alone is conservatively estimated at £10,000. 
But the sub-regulation to which the honorable gentleman directed his chief criticism was 6, which reads - 
That the licensee shall soil all dried fruits on such terms and conditions iia are approved toy the board, and to such /purchasers through such agents and in such quantities as the board determine."). 
A perusal of the 1927 regulations will show that precisely the same set of conditions applied to both New Zealand and Canada, and although a specific pro- vision such as that to which objection is now taken was not inserted in the conditions governing the export to the United Kingdom, the general terms of export to that market were very, similar. Clause 4 of the 1927 regulations, which has reference to export to the United Kingdom^ governs insurance, shipment, appointment of agents, commission, storage, production of documents and completion of sale, only after the board's approval has been obtained. It will be seen, therefore, that similar power was vested in the board by virtue of the general clauses governing the issue of licences to that market. They were not, however specified in such a particular manner as in the clauses governing the issue of licences to New Zealand and Canada. 'The matter is one of draftsmanship alone, and the intention of the draftsman in framing the regulation in its present form was to give effect to the wishes of the board by embracing in one licence form the conditions which were formerly spread over the three markets, and for which there were three separate licence forms. Furthermore, the board's power to restrict the licensees to such purchases through such agents and in such quantities as the board determines, has been exercised with decided advantages to producers generally in respect of fruit exported to New Zealand. 
It would appear to be unreasonable to expect the board to control prices in overseas markets by means of a simple clause confining the licensees to fixed prices, if there were no over-riding regulation governing such important factors as commission, discounts, &amp;c. The fixation of prices may be evaded if some one can say, " We sell at such and such a price, less such and such a commission." This kind of business is really what the clause seeks to prevent. Without this proviso the fixation of a minimum price could be defeated, and the objects and intentions of the industry,  as  carried out by the board, would be completely nullified. I do not propose to go further into a detailed examination of other paragraphs unless  Senator McLeay  wishes me to do so. 
It is sufficient for me to defend the Commonwealth act without offering any comment with regard to the State act, or trying to reconcile any of its provisions with the Commonwealth act. Sub-regulation 16, to which the honorable senator has directed my attention, reads - 
That the licensee shall, whenever so required by notice in writing, signed by the secretary or an authorized person withhold from export the whole or any portion of any dried fruits intended for export. 
It is admitted that this is a new provision, and that, on the surface, the powers sought to be given to the board are far-reaching. 
I would rather have the £1,000 in any case. The worst construction that can be put upon the sub-regulation is that it could be misused if the board intended to do an injury to the industry. But, if we consider the constitution of the board - five of the eight representatives on it are growers, and represent the views of 94 per cent. of the producers of dried fruits in Australia - we must, I think, admit that it would have no desire to injure the industry or any section of it. The most severe critics of the board will, I believe, concede that it desires to assist the industry, and to this end it would administer litis sub-regulation conscientiously and in accordance with its terms. 
Experience over a period of ten years indicates the necessity for such a provision in the regulations. The board must have power to protect the industry by controlling the destination of exports of dried fruits. It would seem to be futile to charge the board with the administration of the industry and the fixation of prices, and at the same time to deny it the means of achieving those ends. The provision is designed entirely to prevent a glut on the market by the shipment of large quantities of dried fruits at a particular time. It is not suggested that the fruit should be cast into the sea or destroyed. The sole pur pose is to ensure that the production shall be marketed in Canada, New Zealand, or Great Britain in such a way as to prevent a glut with consequent depression of prices. It may be that technically and theoretically the provision will make possible a very great invasion of individual liberty. It cannot be denied, however, that it will be beneficial to those who are engaged in the industry. Throughout the whole of the regulations it would be difficult to find any provision which confers upon the board powers or authority that arc not essential to the well-being of the industry. In fact nothing could better express the necessity for regulations such as these than a comment made by  Mr. Justice  Dixon in his recent judgment in the case of  Crowe v. the Commonwealth.  His  Honour in referring to the regulations which  Senator McLeay  now seeks to have disallowed said - 
No effective control of the export and sale and distribution abroad of such a commodity couldbe exercised except by close supervision and a detailed direction of the trade. 
That was the desire of Parliament when it passed the Dried Fruits Act in 1924 and particularly when it approved of section 13 and the last section giving to the administration regulationmaking power. I admit that the regulation means an invasion by the Government of private enterprise, but the action has been taken under pressure from the people directly concerned, and I submit that where there is intervention bythe Government it is only common senseto concentrate the power of direction in as few hands as possible in order to ensure the most satisfactory results. Those entrusted with this power are experienced business men not professing to have any special knowledge of the dried fruits industry, and men who have had experience in the industry. The board represents an overwhelming majority of those engaged in. the dried fruits industry. If the regulations are disallowed, the effect will be to cause chaos in the industry. 
I hope that he will. The honorable senator may be cherishing the idea that the repeal of these regulations will revive the regulations of 1927. There are two comments  to be made on that. The first is that if the 1927 regulations please him, why does he disapprove of these regulations, because the difference between them is so slight as not to be worth quarrelling about. The other is that high legal authorities, including officials in the Attorney-General's Department, are not prepared to say that the repeal or nullification of these statutory rules would revive the 1927 rules. 
I do not know exactly what the honorable senator means by that. Parliament deliberately entrusted control of the industry to the board and the results have amply justified the action taken. I appeal to the honorable senator not to persist with his motion. The carrying of it will serve no good purpose; on the contrary, it may do a great deal of harm. This large and important industry affects a considerable number of producers in that portion of South Australia which abuts on the northwestern districts of Victoria. I warn the honorable senator that, if his motion is carried, the effect may be to bring about a state of chaos and do much harm to a new and important industry. 
If the honorable senator persists with his motion and calls for a division, I trust that a majority of honorable senators will oppose it. 
This afternoon the members of the Opposition are in the happy position of finding that, on this subject, the Government has beencon verted to the policy of the Australian Labour party. That party has always advocated the proper control and orderly marketing of all Australian primary products. In Queensland primary production is being controlled more effectively, and with greater advantage to the growers and consumers, than in any other part of the world. At the moment I cannot say the exact number of boards in operation. 
The boards in operation in Queensland control a large number of important primary industries, and as a result of their operations great prosperity has been brought to primary producers generally. The legislation on this subject passed by the Queensland Parliament is more advanced than that in any other State of the Commonwealth. Every visitor to Queensland realizes that thereis greater prosperity there than in any other State, due largely to the fact that the industries are under proper control, and that marketing is conducted on a most scientific basis. That has been achieved by making a comprehensive survey of what the State can produce, and by controlling production and marketing, not only in the interests of the producers and consumers, but also for the advantage of the State. The Senate is indebted to the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  for the well-reasoned statement which he presented to the Senate this afternoon. Yesterday some honorable senators made a deliberate attempt to convert me to' their way of thinking on the subject then before the Senate, and I am hoping that this afternoon,  Senator McLeay  having seen not only the wisdom but also the righteousness of what the Assistant Minister has said, will withdraw his motion. He has now an opportunity to take cover with, honour, and to free himself from the wrath to come, particularly when those engaged in the industry realize what would be the effect of the adoption of his motion. The Assistant Minister said only one -thing with which I do not entirely agree, and on that point, perhaps, he has been misinformed.  He  said that governmental control of primary industries came about as a result of political parties bidding against each other. That may be true in some instances, but it is quite erroneous in connexion with the control and orderly marketing of primary production, because the members of political parties do not go through the country telling primary producers that they will do more for them than has been done by the supporters of any other political party. 
The honorable senator should know by now that no such offer was made. Governments have assisted in the control of numerous primary industries, because, prior to control., those engaged in them were carrying on operations under chaotic conditions.  Senator McLeay  should realize that, until control legislation was introduced, only a small quantity of dried fruits were being produced in Australia, and that, in consequence of the passage of legislation, business is now being conducted on a thoroughly sound and scientific basis. I understand that the honorable senator desires that some regulations shall remain operative, and that others shall be disallowed. He has been advised that he can not make a selection. 
In the first instance,, he was advised as I have stated. It is unfortunate that  Senator McLeay  should have aimed his first shot at a regulation which ensures effective control. Let us consider what happened in California, a country said to produce excellent fruit, which, however, is not superior to that produced in Australia. A gentleman who came to Australia from California said to me, "Do not let any one tell you that California can produce better fruit than can Australia. The American climate, sunshine, and products are not equal to those of Australia ". Last year the price of Californian dried fruits was £14 a ton, hut  a little coterie of disgruntled individuals supposed to represent the producers acted in such a way that in one .year the price came down to £7 a ton. The position of the growers became so serious that government intervention was again sought, and they had to be paid a bonus of £10 a ton to keep thom off the dole. 
The honorable senator, who is now the leader in this chamber of a misguided minority, should have some knowledge on the subject. 
Seven years ago California was producing 300,000 tons of dried fruits, but after seven years, in which there was no control, the production fell off by onethird. Over 123,000 acres of vines went out of production, because of the low prices offered for grapes. Does  Senator McLeay  want anything like that to happen to the Australian dried fruits industry? Seven years ago Australia was producing about 40,000 tons of dried fruits, but last year the production had increased to about 75,000 tons, duc entirely to the sound control exercised by the board., concerning which we have heard so much valuable information from the Assistant Minister.  Senator McLeay  referred to certain disadvantages which producers experience in respect of shipping but, if the present arrangements were altered, satisfactory control of the industry would bc impossible. 
I know the extent to which it has been altered. A few weeks ago the honorable senator told us, with tears in his eyes, of the nefarious - he did not use that word - conduct of the board of control. He said that growers, who could not get their fruit away on the boat prescribed by the board, had been denied the right to ship by another vessel. The board did advise the exporters that they would be unable to ship their fruit by the  Canadian Conqueror  in April, and that their cargo could not be lifted until the following month. But the board pointed out that the shipment would be deemed to have been effected during April.  Senator McLeay  wishes the Senate to understand  that he has a grievance because the shippers were not allowed to get their fruit away by a. certain vessel, and that they were thereby inconvenienced, but he did not tell the Senate that, under an arrangement with the board, if consignments arc despatched by the vessels of a certain line a. reduction of 20s. a ton in freight is available. That concession, on the production of 50,000 tons a year, is of sow' consequence. 
I know that ihe Canadian Government gives a preference to Australian dried fruits of £19 n ton, and that there is nothing wrong in shipping by other than American vessels, which are heavily subsidized by the Government  of the United States of America. On the 26th April, 1934, the board despatched the following letter to shippers : - 
With reference to the board's circular letter of the 23rd April, I am directed by the  chairman  to state that the board has had before it representations in regard to the delayed sailing of the SS.  Hauraki  for Vancouver. 
In view of the special circumstances, I am to advise that licences for the shipment- of dried vino fruits by the SS.  Hauraki  during early May will be subject to the terms and conditions announced by the board in respect to shipments during April. 

 I hope that the board will stick to its guns. I heard this afternoon that that arrangement had been somewhat modified; to what extent I propose to find out later. Marketing for the industry cannot be satisfactorily controlled if any grower or his agent can ship by any line ho chooses. Such a practice strikes at the very root of marketing control. The same may be said in respect of insurance. After the Egg Export Control Board was established in Queensland, one misguided producer refused to send his eggs to be marketed by the board. He was prosecuted and finally - to put it in the vernacular - he went " balmy " over the matter. He barricaded his hut on his farm and arming his wife with an outofdate shot gun and himself with another obsolete weapon told the police, when the latter came to serve process, to go away, lie said that he was not going to send his  eggs to the board, and that if the police did not go away he would blow out, their brains. Of course, the board went ahead with its business as the Dried Emits Export Control Board is doing, with tho result that this misguided young man had to relent. When the Assistant Minister was speaking, one honorable senator asked whether it would be fair to prevent a grower from selling his produce for cash, and  Senator Abbott  asked, in the course of this discussion, whether there was a control board for the marketing of wool. 
I have already expressed the views of the Opposition on that point. The wool industry derived one of its greatest benefits from the establishment of Bawra, and it suffered one of its greatest calamities when that organization was allowed to be served as this board will be served if  Senator  McLeay's  motion is agreed to. Many small growers at that time were growling because exception was taken to their selling direct to buyers who approached them on their selections. 
That is so. Buyers, or their agents, do not follow such a course in the interests of the wool producer; they do so in their own interests. Only last year, when there was so great a shortage bf apricots all over the world that the price soared to £80 and nearly £90 a ton, buyers' agents approached growers and offered them cash. They did this, not from philanthropic motives, but, as  Senator Abbott  has suggested, in order to make bigger profits for themselves by taking advantage of the fact that many fruit-growers, like many other producers, are all too frequently in need of ready cash. The incident to' which I refer occurred in the Murrumbidgee area. The agent remarked that the grower had a good crop of apricots, and he was prepared to take the lot. He did not tell the grower that the ruling price for apricots at that time was anything from £80 to £90 a ton, but said ho would pay spot cash and give the grower £40 a ton. Of course, the unfortunate grower was tempted by the spot cash offer and sold his apricots at £40 a ton, the agent netting a handsome profit. At any rate, the grower did not get the balance; it went into the pocket of the buying agent or to the firm he represented. I congratulate the Assistant. Minister  (Senator Brennan)  on his address and the Government on the stand it is taking on this matter. I make a final appeal to  Senator McLeay  to extricate himself from an awkward position by withdrawing his motion. 
.- From investigations which I have  made  I have come to the con-  elusion that the existing legislation for the orderly marketing of dried fruits is essential to the well-being of the industry. Statutory Rule No. 30 has been adopted in the interests of the industry; it gives powers to the Export Control Board to take advantage of any privileges or benefits which may accrue from agreements in respect of insurance, shipping, or financial conditions in the export trade to various parts of the Empire. Trade treaties with Britain, Canada, and New Zealand involve responsibilities as well as 'benefits. It is the duty of the board to act for the general good of the industry, and it can do this only by controlling exports. The objection that the export of dried fruits can only be allowed pursuant to a licence granted by the Minister on such terms and conditions as are prescribed, is answered by the simple statement that it is a statutory requirement, as will he seen on reference to section 13 of the Dried Emits Export Control Act of 1924, which reads - 
For the purpose of enabling the board effectually to control the export of Australian dried fruits, the Governor-General may by proclamation prohibit the export from the Commonwealth of any dried fruits, except in accordance with a licence issued by the Minister, subject to such conditions and restrictions as are prescribed after recommendation to the Minister by the board. 
All of the conditions governing the issue of licences, some of which have been objected to, have been authorized, some specifically and others in general terms, by various regulations, and they have been in operation since the establishment of the board in 1925. They were observed by all exporters of dried fruits, including the small section of South Australian dealers which now seeks the disallowance or modification of these licensing conditions. On behalf of these dissentients,  Senator McLeay  has stated that the board - consisting of three Government nominees, two of whom are commercial men with an intimate knowledge of export trade, and five growermembers elected biennially by the growers themselves - is dominated by an organization of 35 years' standing, known as the Australian Dried Fruits Association. That the great majority of growers are members of this body is indicated by the fact that 94-J per cent, of the dried fruits production in Australia is handled hy it. The honorable senator would have us believe, apparently, that the Australian Dried Fruits Association, which is a voluntary organization, exercises an undue influence over the board. Of the 14,043 tons of dried fruits shipped to Canada this year, 12,226 tons was dealt with by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, the balance of 1,817 tons or  12$  per cent, being handled by outside selling agents. The independent growers, therefore, had more than a fair quota on the Canadian market. It has been stated that there are 1,500 growers in South Australia outside the Australian Dried Fruits Association which handled last year 17,639 tons of that State's total production of 20,091 tons. There are 2,206 registered growers in that State. If 1,500 independent growers produced the remaining 2,452 tons, an average of  2i  tons each, then the other 706 were responsible for 17,639 tons. The figures are palpably incorrect. Evidently  Senator McLeay's  independents are " backyard " growers, who engage in the production of dried fruits as a side line. Again, if the independent growers number 1,500 out of 2,206, how is it that  Mr. lj.  D. Howie, the  chairman  of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, was re-elected recently as South Australia's representative on the board, by a four to one majority? A total of 1,214 growers recorded formal votes. This does not indicate that the big majority of growers are dissatisfied with the existing legislation and the operations of the board. In the course of his speech,  Senator McLeay  gave the impression that the cash buyers with whom the independent growers , in South Australia dealt, gave better results than the Australian Dried Fruits Association. Such is not the case. During the last four years the advantage has been distinctly in favour of the organized marketing and pool-selling system. For two-crown currants the average price received hy growers operating under this system was £8 Ss. 4d. a ton better than the cash seller received ; three-crown sultanas showed an advantage of £8 2s. 3d. a ton, whilst four-crown lexias realized an extra £6 2s. 8d. a ton. Of course the consignment seller had to wait a little longer for his money, but it was as good as if it were in the bank. In the same  four years, tlie Berri Go-operative Packing Company paid to Australian Dried Fruits Association growers £100,000 more for their fruit than if they had been left to the mercy of cash buyers. Both had the same markets available to them. These figures speak for themselves and show the value of giving to primary producers power to adopt organized marketing. Results justify the passing of the Dried Fruits Control Act and the subsequent legislation. From reliable sources I have ascertained that the principles and practices of the Export Control Board, in respect to the export of dried fruits from Australia, have been recommended almost entirely by the commercial members. The existing legislation and the operations of the board have been responsible for the present stable financial conditions of the industry and the wonderful expansion of production from 30,000 tons to 75,000 tons in ten years. Of that production 80 per cent, is marketed overseas. I hope that the regulations will not bc disallowed, or even watered, down ; otherwise, in regard to the orderly marketing of dried fruits, the word " finis " may well be written. I urge that the business be left in the hands of the board, which is actuated solely by a desire to help the industry. The statement having been made that the board has refused licences, I approached  Mr. Bell  on the subject, and asked him  whether the charge was well  founded.  He answered with an emphatic " No ". It would appear therefore that, so long as they keep within the regulations, the independent growers have the same privileges as are enjoyed by members of the Australian Dried Fruits Association. I shall vote  against  the motion. 
I rise to oppose the motion for the disallowance of these regulations.  After the full and exhaustive speech of the Minister, there does not appear to be a great deal left to say. My rising to oppose the motion disproves the old saying that " Great minds always run in the same groove ", because  Senator McLeay  and I? who, in this chamber, both represent South Australia, do not soo eye to eye on this matter. My re marks will be confined principally to South Australia - the State which is the principal producer of dried fruits, and the one in which the agitation for the disallowance of the regulations is most pronounced.  Senator McLeay  quoted a number of authorities in regard to government by regulation, among them being Lord Hewart, Professor Kenneth Hamilton Bailey,  Sir John  Peden, and the present Attorney-General of the Commonwealth  (Mr. Menzies).  The honorable senator quoted  Mr. Menzies  as having said that no legislative change should find expression in a regulation. I agree with that view, for should a regulation be inconsistent with the legislation under which it is promulgated, there is always the risk of its being upset by a verdict of the court. Regulations are formulated for the administration of legislation, and must be consistent with that legislation. The regulations which  Senator McLeay  asks the Senate to disallow have been subjected to the scrutiny of the High Court, which has ruled that they are in conformity with the act. In his sum.muning up, Acting Chief Justice Rich said - 
Tlie objection  that  thu conditions transfer to the board a power of prescribing what the exporter must do exerciseable only by the Governor-General as the regulation-making authority is, in  my  opinion, made untenable by the very nature of the power which results from sections 13,  14  and 29. 
The motion before the Chair really asks the Senate to upset regulations which the Acting Chief Justice of the High Court has said are in accordance with the act under which they., were made. The Minister pointed out that only two good reasons exist for  disallowing  a regulation - either that it is not in conformity with the act, or that it is objectionable to the people working under it. I take it that  Senator McLeay  has attacked these regulations on the ground that they are objectionable to some of those who work under them. I disagree with the honorable senator that there is anything objectionable in the regulations. In my opinion, they have been framed, not to hinder, but to assist the industry.  Senator McLeay  seemed to go out of his way to say that: the regulations were framed for the benefit of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, and that that body has a dominat-  ing influence in moulding legislation dealing with dried fruits. The Australian Dried Fruits Association certainly dominates the dried fruits industry; but when the regulations were framed the association was not consulted in any way. lt is an independent body formed voluntarily in the interests of the industry. The dried fruits industry is controlled by a board of eight members, five of whom are elected by the growers, the remaining three being appointed by the Government. Naturally, the stronger force among tho growers obtains a preponderance of representation on the board. In this case, the stronger force was the Australian Dried Fruits Association. Had the independent growers been the dominant force, they would have had greater representation on the board. 
The outstanding features of  Senator McLeay's  speech were, first, the number of independent growers; secondly, the consideration due to them because of their numbers; thirdly, their production of dried fruits; and, fourthly, the prices obtained by them for their products. He set down the number of independent growers in South Australia at 1,500. I am not in a position to contradict his figures, hut I cannot understand them, seeing that there are only 2,260 growers of dried fruits in that State. 
If  Senator McLeay's  figures are right, why have »at the independent growers obtained greater representation on the board? At the last election in South Australia for a member of the board, M-r. Howie received 978 and his opponent, who I assume was an independent grower, secured 236 votes. Only 1,214 growers voted ob that , occasion. The turnover of the independent growers also suggests that there i3 something wrong with the honorable senator's figures, for out of a total production last year of between 60,000 'tons and 70,000 tons of dried-vin fruits, the independent dealers controlled less than 3,000 tons. 

 Senator McLeay also said that the independent growers were unjustly treated in that they were not given a fair share of the Canadian market for dried fruits. Of the 14,043 tons of Australian dried fruits sold in Canada last year, 12,220 tons were marketed through the Australian Dried Fruits Association, and only 1,817 tons by independent dealer.;. Those figures show that the independent dealers disposed of about 12£ per cent, of the dried fruits exported to Canada, although entitled on their production to only about 5 per cent, or 6 per cent. 
As  Senator McLeay  claimed that the growers who sold then* products for cash to independent buyers  received better prices than those who dealt with the Australian Dried Fruits Association, I submit the following table which gives a comparison of the prices paid by the two classes of buyers : - 

<graphic href="148332193511143_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will he seen that only on two occasions did the growers derive any benefit from disposing of their crop to independent buyers; in every other instance the advantage was with those growers who dealt with the Australian Dried Fruits Association.' Those figures prove conclusively that the co-operative society can, and does, pay a better price for the fruit than is paid by the cash buyer. Much distress reigns in the river Murray settlements, where the men have been experiencing hard times. Many of thom have difficulty in meeting their commitments to the Government, and are practically working under government control. Honorable senators will realize what a temptation it would be to any of these men if an agent were to offer them a cash price for their dried fruit. 
It applies far more when a man is financially pressed. If we allow the existing form of control to slacken, we shall leave these men open to any prospective buyer who may desire to take advantage of their position. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  cited a case in which £40 was paid for a product which was later' sold for £70. The Minister has made a lucid statement of the position, and we would do an injustice if we disallowed these regulations. I hold no brief for the Australian Dried Fruits Association, but we must admit that it has raised the industry from a point at which it was practically moribund to its present stage, at which the growers are getting along fairly comfortably. The Senate should avoid any interference with the board's work that would be detrimental to the best interests of the industry. I have no objection to the independent grower, who has a perfect right to continue to grow fruit, but he must be amenable to the laws of the country. If the independent individual can devise a better method of marketing, which will increase the price by even a few shillings a ton, I feel confident that it will be gladly adopted and the present form of control abandoned. I oppose the disallowance of the motion. 
 When listening to the speech of  Senator McLeay,  I felt that a grave injustice was being done to a section of the dried fruits industry. After investigation, however, I have altered my opinion considerably. I have received several telegrams from independent packers and growers in South Australia, and, on inquiring into' their case, I have come to the conclusion that the disallowance of this regulation would be a grave injustice to the industry as a whole. On the receipt of those telegrams from the interest supporting the motion moved by  Senator McLeay,  I met thirteen of its representatives in conference. I submitted to the delegates a series of questions for my own enlightenment. I asked how much of the dried fruit was controlled, exported or handled by the independent organization. The secretary of the organization gave 25 per cent, as the figure, but that must have been quite incorrect, because 88 per cent, is handled by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, in South Australia, and only 12 per cent, of the total by the independent organization. When one discovers that certain information submitted to him is incorrect, one is never quite prepared to accept without confirmation any additional facts which may emanate from the same source. The Senate is concerned a  3  to whether, these regulations governing the control of dried fruits are in the best interests of the industry as a whole, or are being used to the disadvantage and detriment of a particular section.  Senator McLeay  made some grave charges against the Dried Fruits Export Control Board, which were tantamount to an accusation of restraint of trade. The honorable senator also said that, in his opinion, the board is prejudiced against the majority of the independent growers. A further accusation which he made was that the control hoard is dominated by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, because six of its members are members also of that association. Dealing with the latter accusation, I ask, would those six men be working in the interests of the growers or not? I take it that they certainly would be, because it would be to their own interest to do so. Otherwise, I cannot conceive anything more stupid or foolish than for the majority of the growers to elect them. Why should the control board he prejudiced against independent growers, who handle so small a proportion of the total quantity of dried fruits? The independent packers and growers handle only 2,500 tons out of a total of 55,000 tons of dried fruits exported annually; and 20,000 tons are produced in South Australia.  Senator McLeay  stated that between 1,200 and 1,500 growers in South Australia sell all or portion of their fruit to the independent organization. As there are only 2,206 growers of vine fruits in South Australia, that is  a remarkable statement. I believe that that number does not consist only of vine fruit-growers, but includes a fairly large number of tree fruit-growers. 
I have heard of numbers of persons dealing with the independent association who have not more than half a cwt. of dried fruit to market. Some of the other members have bad not more than 2 cwt. This position applies throughout many districts in South Australia. Such people have been appropriately referred to as "backyard growers". In the many years during which the Control Board has been in operation, it has evolved a system that has been most satisfactory to Australian growers. When I use the term growers, 1 do not include independent packers; I refer to the members of the Australian Dried Fruits Association and the Independent Growers Association. For the disposal of Australian production, the board has adopted the quota system. Taking Australia's total production as being 75,000 tons, I find that 15,000 tons is consumed in Australia, 40,000 tons is exported to the United Kingdom, 16,000 tons to Canada, and 4,000 tons to New Zealand. The Australian quota is sold at a fixed price, usually about £56 a ton, and the New Zealand quota at about £40 a ton. The price obtainable for the fruit  exported  to Canada may 'be higher than that ruling in England or New Zealand. Another point that must be considered is that Canadian payment is hy cash draft within 90 days, with exchange added. On investigation, I have reason to believe that the independent packers and growers' organization is seeking to obtain control of the Canadian market, because it  aproaches  the grower and pays cash to him, and wants cash in return. The independent body does not wish to be controlled by having to send a quota of its produce to Canada and other quantities to the United Kingdom and New Zealand after the Australian requirement has been absorbed. It is looking for the cash draft market and trying to build up its business on that basis. The control 'board issues licences to exporters and allocates the quotas for each importing country, on a percentage basis, to exporters of either the Australian Dried Fruit Association or the Independent Dried Fruit Association. The secretary of the Independent Association in Adelaide "informed me that, on one occasion when an application was made for a licence, the board refused it. 
Investigating that case, I found that tho application form had not been filled in correctly and that the board could not possibly issue the licence on the basis that the applicant required. I propose now to refer "to the regulations which are so objectionable to the independent growers. Regulation 7, sub-regulation  2a,  states - 
That the licensee shall not sell any dried fruits overseas at a price loss than tlie authorized price. 
The comment of the association is as follows - 
Our packers are prepared to observe fixed prices for export provided they are allowed to supply their own clients and to supply those clients with the special class of fruit they desire. In common fairness, however, we consider wc should have some say in the fixation of any prices arranged in Australia for exports. 
The independent growers and packers must admit that the representatives on the board which fixed the price were chosen by ! ballot. and because it did not have a sufficient number of supporters among the growers it was unable to have a, representative elected to the board. Sub-regulation 3e reads - 
That the licensee shall ship all dried fruits through and ito such agents as are authorized by the board. 
The comment of the independent association is that this is quite acceptable provided that it is limited to the United Kingdom as hitherto. Its regret is that it does not control all the Canadian exports. Sub-regulation 4 reads - 
That the licensee shall ship all dried fruits through such person as the board determines. 
The association comments that it does not object  to  shipping through an authorized agent, but does object to being allowed to ship only through and to such persons as the hoard determines. The independent association imagines that it will not get justice from the board. Sub-regulation 5 reads - 
That the licensee shall insure each shipment of dried fruits with such person as the board determines. 
The comment is - 
This has never been enforced, and we would object if it were. 
Sub-regulation 6 reads - 
That the licensee shall sell all dried fruits on such terms and conditions as arc approved by thu board, and to such purchasers through such  agents  and in such quantities as the board determines. 
The comment is - 
This amounts to absolute prohibition ot trade, and will undoubtedly react on the industry. 
There is no evidence that hitherto the system of control has reacted detrimentally on those engaged in the industry. I take it that something has happened to make necessary a tightening up of the regulations, and the result, is that some exporters fear that they will not be allowed to continue doing what they have been doing hitherto. Sub-regulation 10 reads - 
That the licensee shall, not less than fourteen days prior to the export by him of any shipment of dried fruits, forward to the secretary or an authorized person in duplicate, an application, in accordance with Form C, lor authority to export those dried fruits. 
This is the comment on that provision - 
Impracticable and would preclude acceptance of many orders. 
When I asked to be informed of any specific cases of hardship none was forthcoming, and I know of none except, perhaps, the case mentioned by  Senator McLeay  - the shipment which was refused because the fruit did not go forward by the vessel designated by the Canadian buyers. Sub-regulation 16 reads - 
That the licensee shall, whenever so required by notice in writing signed by the secretary or an authorized person, withhold from export the whole or any portion of any dried fruits intended for export. 
This is the comment on that provision-  
This conflicts with the Pried Fruits Act which compels export of certain quotas of each variety of dried fruits. The act says certain percentages must be exported. The regulation gives power to an officer of the" board to prohibit export. 
I believe it is, and it is absolutely necessary if we wish to exercise effective control over the export of dried fruits. 
The Minister stated that the new regulations of 1935 were almost identical with the regulations of 1927, but had been slightly amended to give the board greater control over shipments to all export markets. There has been considerable development of the industry since 1927, and I have no doubt that the board discovered holes in the act which the Government ha3 very wisely decided to close. Hence these additional provisions to prevent future leakages. The Minister pointed out tha!: it was necessary to restrict the number of agents handling dried fruits for the overseas market, in order to prevent underselling and unfair competition, particularly in Canada. 
There has been underselling by various devices. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  instanced the position of the dried fruits industry in California, stating that seven years ago the production totalled about 300,000 tons a year. It should be explained that during .the prohibition years in the United States of America, growers who had vines for the production of wine, grafted currants and raisin grapes on to existing stocks, with the result that the production of dried fruits rose to about 250,000 tons in 1928. To-day they are getting about £10 a ton for 200,000 tons of their output which is sold in the home market. If they had adopted the system obtaining in Australia and, by means of a board, exercised control of the industry, they would be in a far happier position because the local market absorbs about 170,000 tons n year, leaving a surplus of only 30,000 tons which might be dumped in the world's market as Queensland surplus sugar is dumped in London. Californian growers disposed of portion of their output in Canada prior to the entry into that market of. Australian producers, largely as the result of activity on the part of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, though I am aware that the Independent Packers Association" claims credit for having secured portion of the Canadian market for Australian exporters. The truth is that ten years ago the Australian Dried Fruits Association secured  a  preference for Australian growers of 3 cents ner lb. equivalent to about £14 a ton. The Ottawa agreement increased the preference by 1 cent per lb., and gave us an advantage of £18 a ton over American producers. Our export trade to Canada now amounts to about 16,000 tons a year. Preference in the New Zealand market also enables our producers to compete successfully against American growers. There is no control over the export of dried fruits from Greece or Smyrna, our principal competitors in the London market. 
I am convinced that the board is  doing  its best to place Australian dried fruits on the world's markets under the most favorable conditions, and I am glad to know that its efforts are meeting with success. I regret that  Senator McLeay  did not investigate the other side of the subject before submitting this motion for the disallowance of the regulations. Had lie done so, I feel sure that he would have hesitated before taking action which might seriously injure the industry. 
Recently I met representatives of the Independent Dried Fruits Association in Adelaide with a view to ascertaining their views. There were thirteen representatives present. It was stated that 1,500 growers in South Australia dispose of their fruit through the Independent Dried Fruits Association, and that 500 growers sell for cash. 
Some interesting developments have taken place in South Australia during the last few years; the most noteworthy being the decrease of the percentage of fruit sold outside the Australian Dried Fruits Association. The figures are as  folows  : - 

<graphic href="148332193511143_18_1.jpg"></graphic>

These figures show an appreciable improvement in the quantity of fruit that is being marketed through the Australian Dried Fruits Association. Despite thu claims made on behalf of the Independent Packers Association it is evident that that body is not giving the growers  such  a wonderful deal as to encourage them to market a larger proportion of their output through that organization. I feel sure that, in the course of a few years, the Australian Dried Fruits Association will have complete control of the industry, and will handle the whole of the South Australian export quota as well as that for Victoria. 
The system which gives the best results for the grower is the one that should be approved. Prior to the appointment of the board the condition of the dried fruits industry was most unsatisfactory. Frequently exporters who sent dried fruits overseas received an expenses account which they were unable to meet. Since the act has been in operation, there has been a mostgratifying improvement of the industry. Some growers, who, ten years ago were almost bankrupt, are now financial. The Independent Dried Fruits Association declares that it is in favour of control, yet one or two of its member-; sought an injunction from the High Court against control by the board appointed under the act. I appeal to thu Senate no't to disallow the regulations which are necessary to ensure the continued development of the dried fruits industry in Australia along satisfactory lines. I hope that my colleague,  Senator McLeay,  will withdraw the motion. 
The statements made during this debate seem to me to have been wholly black or wholly white. We have had one statement of the position of the dried fruits industry by the mover of the motion, followed by a strong reply from several honorable senators. There has been little attempt to tone down the two extremes of opinion. The Minister  (Senator Brennan)  stated his case very clearly and fairly, I thought, although I do not agree with all that he said. If 1 have any right to intervene in this debate I think it is because I am, probably, the only member of this chamber who is, in any sense, a grower. I do not know if either  Senator Badman  or  Senator Collings  has produced any dried fruits, but. I have been a grower for between 20 and 25 years. I may, perhaps, be said to be conducting a " backyard industry " as I have .only 10 acres under fruit, but by comparison with thesis who do not produce any dried fruits at all, I should be entitled to express my views on this subject. When the Australian Dried Fruits Association came into existence I was not faced with bankruptcy in connexion with, my currant crop, and I am not lushed with wealth as the result of its operations. The statements made on this subject have been pitched so highly that in speaking at this juncture it is somewhat difficult to attempt to do justice to. both sides. We are facing an antagonism of long standing. I suppose that every honorable senator realizes that it is only natural that the two parties to this contest should have their respective view-points, and that opinions have been expressed on both sides by extremists. 
On the legal side, the High Court has decided that these regulations are in accordance with the act, and, therefore, if anything is susceptible to attack, it is the act under which they are framed.  Senator McLeay,  however, is quite justified in raising for discussion this important subject which is, or which should be, of interest to many honorable senators. My view in matters of this kind has been for years that there should be as little governmental interference as possible. In these days we are all agreed - most of us have been for some time past - that control in the grading and packing of dried fruits is essential, and that if it is advisable to introduce a home consumption price quotas and levies will be necessary. Apart from that, there are a great many in Australia who believe that it would bc far better for the growers if they were permitted to sell their own produce, whether it be dried* fruits, wheat, or even a relatively unimportant product such as oranges, instead of handing it to some one else for sale. I noticed with interest that the Orange Bounty Bill introduced by the Goverment does not in any way attempt to control the sale of oranges. It provides for the payment of a bounty on oranges exported to Great Britain, but t here is no complica ted machinery 'setting out the manner in which they shall be sold. 
I should be sorry if that should ever be the case. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  said that Bawra controlled the sale of the whole of the 
Australian wool clip, and that, when that organization went out of existence, it was a bad thing for Australia. Bawra performed good work, but it was concerned only with the disposal of wool sold at a fixed rate to the British Government. 
Bawra, which did not control wool as the honorable senator suggests, had its genesis in the minds of individualists who laid the benefit of their experience before the Government; on their advice that organization came into existence. I should be very sorry to think that any governmental or semi-governmental body should control Australian wool. The Dried Fruits Export Control Board has performed very good work in the interests of Australia. So far as I have been able to form an opinion, I think it is the most satisfactory of all the control boards, being constituted of men like  Mr-  Howie, who are  caapble  of keeping an open mind, and of conducting the industry as far as possible in the same way as it was conducted before a board was appointed. I have been through a number of the packing sheds under the control of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, and 1 have found that they are admirably conducted. At the same time, the members of the Export Control Board are perhaps too high-handed in' some of their actions. In one instance some independent packers asked the board  members to meet them in conference, so that they could express their views on certain phases of the board's activities. There are some in this chamber who will say that such persons are a mere minority, and have no right to be heard, but the board is supposed to consider the viewpoint of every branch of the industry. This section of the growers wrote to the board on the 24th April asking for a conference, and, as no reply was received, another letter was despatched on the 8th May asking for a. reply. On the 9th May a formal acknowledgment of the letter was received, but it was not until the 24th May that a reply was received stating that no good purpose would be served by holding such a conference. 
The legal representatives of that section of the growers. The letter from the secretary of the board stated that - 
The board does not see that any good purpose would be served by the holding of a conference such as is suggested, but the board will give its customary earnest and careful consideration to any written representations advanced by any exporter of fruit or interested party. 
It will be seen that the board is not using its power in a courteous and reasonable manner. 
Certain views were placed before the board by the legal representatives of a number of growers. They stated, among other things, that they agreed with the general principle of control so far as grading and export quotas were concerned, but they were against restrictions of sales and distribution on fixed price markets. They suggested further that a conference would remove some of the difficulties and result in a modification of some of the regulations. 
My own tendency is to hear the point of view of every section. I say quite deliberately that, when a dried fruit organization writes to the board of control asking for a conference, it would be more courteous to reply in a shorter period than one month. If the board did not propose to grant the conference, why did it not send a letter to that effect within a few days instead of waiting for a month ? There is a good deal to be said on both sides. One of' the difficulties associated with the pooling system, and one open to attack, is that growers cannot obtain details from any pooling organization as to how amounts are made up or what mistakes, if any, have occurred. Naturally, every person or organization is liable to make mistakes. My answer to  Senator Hardy's  interjections is that the independent growers have rights. Does the honorable senator suggest that because they are a small minority they have no rights and are not entitled to be heard? 
They did vote.  Mr. Howie  is an immensely popular man who was elected by a four to one majority. I draw the attention of honorable senators, however, to the election of  Mr. Russell  to theState board. He stood practically as an independent representing the non-irrigation areas and was elected against two well-known members of the Australian Dried Fruits Association. 
I do not know whether that is a fact or not. It seems to be extremely difficult to find out exactly how many members are in the respective organizations. Conflicting statements on this matter have been made to-day, and it may be that some growers sell to both organizations. 
HUGHES. - I think there is an acreage qualification. I emphasize that although the opposition to the Australian Dried Fruits Association is small, it is not negligible. Anybody who knows anything about the present state of affairs in the industry inSouth Australia cannot question that fact. Many growers are not satisfied with existing conditions and it may be that some of these do not turn up to vote, as they are not particularly in favour of either organization. Competition is desirable and, without saying that coercion has occurred in this instance, I am opposed to the coercion of a small minority. I am sure that all honorable senators agree that minorities have some  rights. For instance, the Opposition in this chamber is composed of only three members, but they represent one of the great Australian political parties, and no honorable senator would attempt - even if it were possible - to deny them the right of speech in this chamber. It is a good thing to allow the expression of different points of view. The Commonwealth has three nominees on the board. Could not the Government give one of its nominations to a representative of the independent organization? I do not desire to say anything about individuals but it is a fact that the last Government appointee, whom I know personally and like, is also a director of the Australian Dried Fruits Association in South Australia. The memorandum compiled by the Acting  Chairman  of the Dried Fruits Export Control Board strikes me as being disingenuous. It does not place the facts fully before Parliament when it says, "so intent have been the principal commercial members of the board on absolute fairness that on no occasion have these gentlemen ever entered the offices of the Australian Dried Fruits Association ". The members of the hoard meet in other offices, so what is the value of that iissuran.ee? The fact remains that one of the three Government nominees, a commercial member of the board, is a director of the Australian Dried Fruits Association in South Australia. Yet there is not a word in this document to suggest that this is so. 
No ; it emanates from the board, but it would have been much fairer if the fact I have indicated were stated in it. Six of the night members of the board are closely connected with the Australian Dried Fruits Association. Would it not be fair that the independent growers should have a nominee on the board? If they cannot get a member of the board by election, would it not be proper for the Government to place such a representative on the board to enable the point of view of this particular section to be expressed, to act, to some extent, as a check on other members of the hoard, and to enable him to become educated, if necessary, in matters affecting the control of the industry? If the Government does not propose to amend the act !by extending the hoard, it should see that this particular section is represented on the board, because the independent growers have their rights and should be safeguarded. On the surface, at any rate, the Control Board appears to have very great powers, but should the decision of the Privy Council upset the present control the position will he greatly changed and Parliament may have to decide whether or not the board has exercised its present powers fairly in the interests of the growers as a whole. I do not desire to make an attack on the board or on the Australian Dried Fruits Association. The latter is the dominant organization in the dried fruits industry in Australia at the present time. I admit that it is an efficient and well managed organization, and that the head men in it are fair-minded, although I have reason to believe that, in some instances, they are influenced by extremists outside. It is for the Control Board and the Australian Dried Fruits Association to ensure that they so exercise the great powers they have at the present time that, should a Privy Council decision upset their control, they will be in a position to go to the growers to ask for more powers. But if they take unfair advantage of their present powers, and commit such acts of discourtesy as, for instance, failing for a month to answer a letter written on behalf of a wellorganized minority in the industry, they cannot expect that members of Parliament will regard them with the same favour or that they will strengthen their hold over the growers as a whole. 
I ask the Senate to reject this motion. These regulations constitute machinery which, it has been admitted, has provided a model for marketing control in many other branches of primary production. The principle underlying this legislation is similar to that underlying the butter industry legislation, and, I believe, will be found to be the basis of the wheat industry legislation when it comes before this chamber. If it had not been a success - 'and the proof of the  pudding is in the eating thereof - there would be some reason for assuming that all is not well with the industry. Several honorable senators who spoke on conditions in the dried fruits industry in other parts of the world have demonstrated that this particular legislative machinery has succeeded in doing. something for the industry in Australia which has not been done for the producers of dried fruits in any other part of the world. This "legislation and the powers exercised under it enabled this industry right through the worst years of the depression to pay to the producer at least the cost of the production of his product. In no other part of the world was such a result achieved during those tunes of hardship. It has been pointed out that in California small minorities acted independently of other growers in the industry with the result that the dried fruits industry there was brought to its knees, and 123,000 acres went out of production. I do not overlook other explanations of this development, hut I  ampha- size  that the operations of those who claimed independence in the industry seriously contributed to such disastrous results in California. In Greece, low prices brought the industry to a standstill, and so serious did its position become that its disorganization was a contributing factor to the revolution which occurred in that country. In Smyrna, also, low prices crippled the industry, and. when the Government there intervened manipulations on the part of small independent sections took place with the result that the Government ultimately had to buy the whole of the crop and hold it against sale. Only in Australia has the industry achieved outstanding success, and this has been due entirely to this kind of legislation. Honorable senators are not seriously concerned that a few growers may have been injured under the present system or that the controlling organization may have been adjudged guilty of discourtesy to a small section of the growers. In passing, I point out that such allegations have not been proved. Nevertheless, we are asked to discard certain regulations which have been put forward by an organization which has made an outstanding success of this business. Under such circum stances, I prefer to adhere to the old adage that " the proof of the pudding is in tho eating thereof", and shall stand by the regulations. The board has been able to obtain preferences for Australian growers in Great Britain, Canada and New Zealand, in each of which, I understand, a tariff is imposed against foreign import;-. We would be ill advised to throw a spanner into the works of a legislative machine which has worked wonders for the Australian primary producers. I appeal to honorable senators to reject the motion. 
.- I should not have participated in this discussion were it not for an interjection which suggested that the allowance paid to members of the board is a rather important factor in the administration of the board. I know two of the "commercial " members of the board - Messrs. Bell and Thomas - fairly well. The former is managing director of Robert Harper and Company Limited and  Mr. Thomas  is managing director of W. C. Thomas and Sons Proprietary Limited, and also  president  of the VictorianChamber of Manufactures. The circumstances of those two gentlemen precludes any suspicion that the allowances paid to them would influence them in carrying out their duties. 
We have advanced a long way during the last 30 years in the management of primary production. I was one of the prime movers in the formation of the first co-operative company in Victoria to deal with butter. Had it been suggested then that the day would come when governments would be asked to control the industry, the suggestion would have been laughed to scorn not only by the producers themselves but also by the governments of that day. But since then governments have had to come to the relief of various industries. The changes which have taken place have necessitated a  re-adjustment  of our views regarding the need for government control of marketing. I confess that in thi 3 respect my views have changed considerably. Nevertheless, I see grave danger in this form of control, and I should like the representatives of primary producers in this chamber to recognize it. There is a growing tendency to require the home consumer in Australia to pay a higher  price for the primary producehe buys, in order that a bounty may be paid to the exporters of such products. So soon as the various control boards exploit that power unduly, and charge unwarranted prices for goods consumed locally, trouble arises. I do not think that the Dried Fruits Export Control Board has attempted to misuse its power in this direction, but a warning that the danger exists may not be out of place. We must not penalize the home consumer in order to confer benefits on exporters. Realizing that " what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander ", I am somewhat exercised in my mind as to what would happen to me, a manufacturer, if it were suggested that the iron and steel industry, or the agricultural implement industry of Australia, should charge higher prices for goods sold in Australia in order that a bounty might be paid on goods exported. 
I am also concerned to know why it was found necessary to tighten up these regulations. I do not think that the Senate has been informed of the whole of the facts. I do not know all of them myself, but I think that I know the reason for the amendments. I have been informed that some of the independent growers were "whiteanting " the industry in Canada. They allowed discounts not on the invoices, but by actually sending the money to Canada. If that is so, one can understand why stricter control of the industry has been found necessary. 
I have been informed on good authority that such things are done. 
The possibility of wrong practices creeping in is the reason why licences are necessary; it gives the Minister power to deal with known offenders. 
I understand that the practice to which I have referred was resorted to some time before these regulations were gazetted. In all probability, the men concerned have discontinued the practice. 

 Senator McLeay has done his job well, but I think either that incorrect information was supplied to him, or that he drew wrong inferences from the facts at his disposal. In view of the overwhelming body of opinion against the motion, he would do well to withdraw it now that the whole subject has been thoroughly ventilated. 
 It was not my intention to speak on this subject, because I was aware that several honorable senators who were fully acquainted with the facts were prepared to refute the statements made by  Senator McLeay  when moving his motion. But as the discussion proceeded other matters were referred to, and I now feel impelled to make a few observations. It is somewhat unusual to find honorable senators advocating the representation of minorities. I know that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and his two followers frequently claim, but to my mind wrongly, that although the Opposition is a small minority in the Senate it should be heard on all matters affecting the people because it represents 46 per cent. of the electors. The question we have to decide in connexion with this motion is whether or not the Dried Fruits Export Control Board is dominated by the Australian Dried Fruits Association to the detriment of growers generally. We have to decide tins question in the interests of the great body of growers, rather than of a few growers.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  said that, although, in a minority, the independent growers are a fairly strong minority. There are approximately 2,200 growers of dried fruits in South Australia, and they produce about 22,000 tons of dried fruits per annum. A simple calculation will show that the average production is about 10 tons to each grower. Figures which have been presented to us show that the 1,500 independent growers produce about 3,000 tons of dried fruits. That represents about 2 tons each. It will be seen, therefore, that the unit production for the other700 growers is about 27 tons, and that the minority group, which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  says should be represented on the board, is a very small group indeed. 
I do not think that  Senator McLeay  would apply to himself the principle which he now advocates for other minorities.  For  instance, if minorities are entitled to representation after a popular vote, it may he that some other person should be sitting in the place now occupied by the honorable senator in this chamber. In an ordinary company, is it not a fact that the will of the majority of shareholders rules? There is nothing wrong in that, because we must assume that the welfare of the whole is not inconsistent with the welfare of the majority. 
 Senator McLeay  said that the board acted improperly in refusing to meet the independent growers in conference. He accused the board of discourtesy in not replying to those who asked for a conference and implied that the board had acted arrogantly in this matter. I remind him that the hoard meets only at intervals of six or eight weeks. 
That is so ; but he could not authorize the holding of a conference. 
It may be that the letter was received immediately following a meeting of the board. 
The board probably thought, and rightly so, that, as it was a body constituted by an act of Parliament, the request for a conference to consider amendments to the act which constituted the board should be submitted to the Government. Surely that is a logical point of view.  Senator McLeay,  when dealing with the personnel of the board and its probable influence, stated - 
It is interesting to note that one member of tlie board who was appointed by the Govern ment was  Mr. J.  B. Murdoch, a. prominent member of the Australian Dried Fruits Association. These mcn have done excellent work and they aru highly respected and esteemed in South Australia. But honorable senators will realize that, with six of the eight members of the Dried Fruits Export Board prominently associated with the Australian Dried Fruits Association, the existing regulations, and the power that the board has, may be . . . 
I direct the attention of honorable se'nators to the words " may be ", which are used in exactly the same sense as when the Labour party attacked a previous appointment of a member to the judiciary. Because a gentleman assisted to frame laws, members of that party suggested that his sense of justice would be warped and that he must be influenced in a certain direction.  Senator McLeay  assails their sense of equity and justice when he avers that, although these gentlemen are esteemed in South Australia, they "may be " influenced to take certain action prejudicial to the interest of their immediate competitors. Later, in reply to my interjection, the honorable senator stated - 
It is not our wish to destroy the board, but we wish to prevent it, dominated as it is by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, from doing an injustice to a  large  section of the. growers in the dried fruits industry. 
The words " may be " occurring in the earlier part of Iris speech, when he showed an  inclination  to remain neutral on the point as to whether the board was dominated or not, were superseded by assurance that the board had been dominated by the Australian Dried Fruits Association. The words "dominated as it is" cannot be misinterpreted. If the board has been so dominated, that is only right and - proper, because the Australian Dried Fruits Association represents practically the whole of the growers. Where then lies the inequity? I fail to see any logical reason why the honorable senator should advocate that the extremely small' and evidently discontented minority should have representation on the board. Having regard to the fact that the members of the board are elected by ballot - the surest system of ascertaining the will of the people interested - under no rule of logic or deduction can such a claim be substantiated. The independent grower is not sufficiently interested to take advantage of an opportunity when it, occurs to change the policy of the hoard. The voting returns are proof of that.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  stated that the result of the election may have been due to  Mr. Howie's  personal popularity. I assume that the ordinary grower has sufficient intelligence to know that the policy that a candidate advocates must be taken into account as well as his popularity.  Mr. Howie  was elected by a, three or four to one majority, but 900 growers in South Australia failed to vote. I expect that the very men who were too lazy to vote are the persons now advocating the reform of the board. 
But that does not imply that only 15 per cent. of the electors should vote to-day. Majority rule is the surest and most satisfactory method of electing a representative. I was gratified to hear  Senator McLeay  inform the Senate that the statement which he made previously about  Mr. Howie  was incorrect. In what I am about to say I desire to be perfectly fair to the honorable gentleman. Three weeks ago he stated that we must suspend judgment until we found whether or not the utterance attributed to  Mr. Howie  was correct. At the commencement of the debate to-day  Senator McLeay,  in a personal explanation, said that his remarks were without foundation. Three weeks have passed since the honorable senator made his allegation, and I venture to assert that he could have, if he had so desired, made the explanation many days ago. Why did he wait for this period to elapse before taking action to clear  Mr. Howie's  name? I propose to read an excerpt from an official letter, addressed to  Senator McLeay  by  Mr. Howie.  In fairness to this gentleman, who has been, and still is, the leader of the dried fruits industry, his explanation should be placed on record. The statement completely refutes the assertion attributed to him about giving the independent packer a " crack in the neck." The letter is as follows :  - 
As regards thepersonal incidents in which any name is brought into prominence,I wish to state in regard to the statement alleged of me at Renmark to the effect that I saw an opportunity in the new regulations of giving the independent packer a " crack in the neck," I did not make such a statement. This meeting in Renmark was attended by a large number of growers, and  Mr. W.  F. McConnell, secretary of the Independent Packers and Producers Association. A full report of the meeting was made by a reporter of the  Murray Pioneer,  and no mention of such a statement by me is mode, but  Mr. McConnell,  in the next issue of the  Dried Fruit Producer,  quoted me as using the words in question. Immediately upon this coming before my notice I wrote to  Mr. McConnell  correcting him.  Mr. McConnell  published my letter, but endeavoured to justify my assertion that I had made this statement by saying that he had confirmed it with others who were at the meeting. I have since questioneda number of growers who attended the meeting, and not one of them recalls my utterance of such a statement. 
If ever an honorable senator made amends for an incorrect utterance,  Senator McLeay  did so to-day, but I quote this letter in order to support the retraction by the honorable senator, and to show that the statement attributed to  Mr. Howie  emanated from the quarter from which one would expect it, and that is the secretary of the independent association. From this explanation honorable senators can draw their own conclusions which must react to the detriment of that association. Every aspect of the motion has been well debated, and there is no necessity for me to emphasize how essential it is to preserve these regulations. The DriedFruits Export Control Board has a definite record of benefit to every producer of dried fruits in the Commonwealth. I trust that the motion will be rejected. 
 in reply  - I ask leave to amend the motion by inserting, after the word " That ", the words " regulations 3 and 7 contained in ". 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - Such an amendment may be made only by the unanimous consent of the Senate. As the objection of one honorable senator would be fatal,  Senator McLeay  will appreciate the risk that he runs by asking for leave. At an earlier stage the honorable senator might have arranged for another honorable senator to move the amendment. 
Leave granted. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

Where an act confers power to make regulations, all regulations made accordingly shall, unless the contrary intention appears - 
he notified in the  Gazette, 
take effect from the date of notifica tion or from a later date specified in the regulations. 
be laid before each House of the Parliament within fifteen sitting days of that House after the making of the regulation. 
But if either House of Parliament passes a resolution of which notice has been given at any time within fifteen sitting days after such regulations have been laid before such House disallowing any regulation, such regulation shall thereupon cease to have effect. 
The notice of motion to disallow the regulation was given within fifteen sitting days, but the Senate has had no notice of the motion as amended. If notice of motion were given to-day, and the motion were set down for consideration tomorrow, the Senate would not be considering it within the fifteen sitting days, as required 'by section 10. Therefore I contend that it is not competent for the Senate to amend the motion and that consent of the Senate cannot validate what is expressly disallowed by the act. I only wish to add that when you,  Mr. President,  gave honorable senators an opportunity to object to the amendment of the motion, I did not take advantage of it because I would not then have had an opportunity to give reasons why I object to the alteration. I submit that the honorable senator is required, in his reply, to confine his remarks to the motion of which he gave notice within the statutory time. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The point raised by the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  is very important, and is, perhaps, without precedent in the history of this cham ber.  Senator McLeay  obtained leave of the Senate to amend his motion. As the Minister has submitted, notice of a motion to disallow a regulation must be given within fifteen sitting days after such regulation was laid before the Senate. I am not prepared to say whether or not the amendment is a radical alteration of the original motion. But it is obvious that the motion in its altered form would not have been submitted to the Senate within the time specified by section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act. I must uphold the point taken by the Assistant Minister ; and, therefore, the original motion only is before the Chair. 
.  - I appreciate the position that has arisen and I thoroughly understand the reasons actuating  Senator Brennan  in raising the point of order which you,  Mr. President,  have decided in his favour. Some time ago I was informed that it was not within the power of the Senate to disallow a single regulation, but on the following day the Assistant Minister advised that it was competent for this chamber to do so. 
I am grateful to the Assistant Minister for the assistance which he has given to me in this matter. My main reason for objecting to certain regulations in Statutory Rule No. 30 which came into force on the 8th April, 1935, is not that I am opposed to control or fixation of prices in connexion with the dried fruits industry, but that I consider that three or four of the sub-regulations are altogether too drastic and would unduly trespass on the rights' of a number of citizens. I was under the impression that, if my motion were carried the regulations which were in force on the 7th April would still stand. As there appears to be some legal doubt on this point, it is imperative, because of the far-reaching nature of these new regulations, that the Senate should know what are its powers in the matter of the disallowance of regulations. The Assistant Minister should give earnest consideration to this statutory rule, which contains nine regulations, and one of them has seventeen sub-regulations, including twelve paragraphs. Some of these provisions are very far-reaching in their effects. I understand that the Senate has not the power to disallow or amend a single subregulation or paragraph contained in a regulation. If it has not this power, 1 am afraid that before long we shall be facing a sea of trouble. 
My motion is a protest against the present unsatisfactory state of affairs in the industry. In the course of this debate we have heard a good deal said about the success of the dried fruits industry in Australia. For that we have to thank the Commonwealth Government and State governments for passing legislation making possible the satisfactory development of the industry, and also the governments of Canada, New Zealand and Great Britain for the measure of preference which Australian exporters now enjoy in those markets. I was rather surprised that, with the exception of the Assistant Minister and  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  all those who took part in the debate this afternoon failed to note that I am supporting by motion all the regulations which were in force up to the 7th April, and that my opposition is directed against three or four of the new sub-regulations of regulation  '7 which came into operation on the Sth April. The regulation reminds me of the story of the cynical draftsman who observed that, as razors were made to sell, regulations were drafted to pass. The statutory rule against which my motion is directed - by the President's ruling I am not permitted to amend it - contains nine regulations, some sections of which I consider are unduly oppressive, yet we are told that we must accept or reject them in their entirety. 
As even lawyers differ on so many occasions, I am not prepared, at this stage, to express an opinion on the point raised by the Assistant Minister, but I repeat that the Government should give the Senate a lead as to the correct procedure. My objection is to certain of the sub-regulations which came into force on the Sth April, and in particular to regulation 7, sub-regulation 6, which enacts that an exporter shall sell " to such purchasers through such agents and in such quantities as the board determines." Let honorable senators consider the position from the point of view of a seller who goes to Canada to appoint agents for the sale of his products. Before he can appoint an agent or enter into any contract to sell dried fruits at the price fixed by the board, he has to obtain the approval of the board as to whether the purchaser shall be allowed to receive the goods. From the view-point of those controlling packing sheds, such a position is most undesirable. A packer may purchase 1,000 tons of dried fruits, and after entering into the contract the board then determines whether the contract to sell may be carried out. If the board is to have the power to exercise such control over commerce, the Senate should give these regulations most serious attention. Let us consider subregulation 10. The members of the board may be in different parts of the Commonwealth, and the secretary does not possess the necessary authority to issue a licence, unless fourteen days' notice is given for each shipment. The secretary may say that the person desiring to export is a reputable trader, that his licence is in order, and that he should be entitled to ship a consignment, but he has not the power to authorize shipment under fourteen days. It has been reported to me that after these regulations came into force a firm cabled from Colombo to Adelaide in September for a shipment to be forwarded within three days, but those desiring to comply with the request were reminded by the board that fourteen days' notice had to be given. Is it any. wonder that there is such a strong protest against these regulations when such restrictions arc imposed? The Assistant Minister has said that the Senate has not the power to amend these regulations; but even the best of draftsmen are not infallible, and mistakes may occur. I remind honorable senators that before the Sanctions Bill' was disposed of by the Senate last night, it was found necessary to amend it. That shows clearly that even at the last moment alterations were found to be necessary. Sub-regulation 16 of regulation 7 reads - 
That the licensee shall, whenever so required by notice in writing, signed by the secretary or an authorized person, withhold from export the whole or any portion of any dried fruits intended for export. 
The Commonwealth law provides that exports shall be withheld, and the State law provides that quotas must be exported. It is quite possible that purchasers would refrain from entering into contracts, because there is always a fear that these regulations may be used against them. I wish it to be clearly understood that I am in favour of reasonable control, and I trust that, if there is any friction under these regulations, the Assistant Minister will see that they are amended.  Senator DuncanHughes  said that if the Commonwealth decides to take a referendum as to the Commonwealth's powers under section 92 of tho Constitution, these regulations will be quoted throughout the Commonwealth, as showing the effect of Commonwealth control. I am prepared to support any amendment of the Constitution to give to the Commonwealth greater power to deal with exports, but I trust that the Government will see that the regulations which it promulgates are not ridiculous, and that when they come before the Senate, we shall have power to amend them. Subregulation 17 of the same regulation reads - 
The licensee shall comply with such other conditions as arc from time to time prescribed. lt is difficult to understand what is meant by that. It has given the independent packers in South Australia quite a scare. Reference was made this afternoon to the representation of minorities. Members of the independent organization in South Australia control eighteen of the 49 .packing sheds, and in addition to the dried fruits which this organization purchases locally, it obtains quantities from Victoria and New South Wales. In the first year of its operation, one independent packing shed handled 100 tons, and this year it has handled 700 tons of interstate fruit.  Mr. Howie  said that the Australian Dried Fruits Association handled S8 per cent, of the dried fruit produced in South Australia last year, leaving members of the independent organization 12 per cent. The members of the independent organization in South Australia were in business before the days of government control, and did not object to control until these regulations ' became operative on the Sth April. I understand that the Control Board objected because representations were made to it on behalf of independent packers by a firm of solicitors; but, in view of the nature of the regulations and the numerous technical and complex matters contained therein, it is only reasonable that they should obtain legal advice. This small independent organization exported in 1934 a larger quantity of dried fruits than was exported from New South Wales and Western Australia during the samo year, and those States have representation on the board. Some who are not familiar with the conditions under which the industry is conducted in South Australia object to the representation of minorities. In 1934, South Australia produced 20,000 tons of dried fruits, but the total production of New South Wales in that year was only 5,000 tons. We do not complain because New South Wales lias direct representation on the board, but the Assistant Minister should consider the suggestion of  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that, when another appointment is made, the claims of independent organizations in South Australia should not be overlooked. Unfortunately, some honorable senators do not appreciate the position which exists in the dried fruits industry in South Australia, where there are nonirrigated and irrigated areas. When the South Australian Dried Fruits Control Bill was introduced, one representative of the non-irrigated areas and two representatives of the irrigated areas were to be elected. Although the Australian Dried Fruit Association is a powerful organization, we should not belittle the independent organization which has done much for the industry in South Australia. Some honorable senators are apt to think that I am speaking on behalf of a merchants' organization. Eighteen of the  49 packing sheds are supported by men, of whom 95 per cent, are growers. This organization, which was not formed until December of last year, is making headway and, by resolution, has decided to support reasonable control. Both the Australian Dried Fruit Association and the independent organization arc commercial -undertakings and my desire is that they shall work together  amicably.I understand that some grower-members of the Australian Dried Fruit Association welcome the independent organization, which has livened up the industry and introduced healthy competition. Men have been sent to Canada and have done good business. One agent has been buying from the same source for years, but under these regulations confidence might not be retained and competition is likely to cease, giving one organization a monopoly which will not be in the best interests of the growermembers of the Australian Dried Fruit Association or the industry as a whole.  Mr. Howie,  who is one of the most respected men in the industry, on one occasion said : " I believe that if any individual, however small his interests, is the victim of an injustice his case is worthy of consideration." I cannot understand why I have failed to convince the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that I and the independent growers are not against control of the industry. I am not opposing the regulations as they were up to the 7th April: indeed, we recognize that they were largely responsible for placing the industry in the prosperous position it enjoys to-day. We oppose some of the new sub-regulations which came into force after that date. With  Senator Leckie  I ask what are the reasons for these new regulations? Are honorable senators prepared to agree to them with out even inquiring why the old regulations have been superseded? 
No. I have no desire to take any part in the work of the Australian Dried Fruits Association or the Independent Dried Fruits Association. I do not seek to express any opinion in this chamber on the merits of disputes between the rival organizations. I am concerned only with the principles which might be involved in such disputes. I have submitted this motion in an endeavour to ensure that justice shall be done to all sections of producers in this industry. I thank honorable senators for the patient manner in. which they have heard my case. There are many other points to which I should like to reply, but I appreciate the feeling of the chamber on this matter. However, I believe that I was justified in bringing the motion before the Senate. At all times I shall be prepared to fight any organization, even though it be as strong as the Australian Dried Fruits Association, in defence of principles. If I have done any injury to  Mr. Bell  or any member of the board, I am sorry. I. adopted this course in the interests of the growers as a whole, and I trust that the same healthy competition that exists today in the industry will survive, because this will be to the benefit of the industry as a whole. 
Motion negatived. 
I move- 
That to encourage the breaking down of barriers and in the interests of mutual understanding and peace among the nations of  the  world and to enable the founding of an international public opinion and literature - 
It is imperative that a means of international thought exchange be estab lished by a common language to be compulsorily taught in their respectiveprimary and secondary schools; 
For this purpose the Governmentbe asked to list this question on the Agenda of the next General Assembly of the League of Nations; 
That the Government be asked to instruct the delegates representing Australia at the next Assembly of the League to take action to ensure the approval of the Assembly to the above ; 
That the terms of this resolution be communicated to the House of Representatives with a request for concurrence therein; 
That the right honorable the Prime Minister be requested tocommunicate the above to the governments of the United Kingdom, the dominions, and India, seeking their co-operation. 
It may seem strange to honorable senators that a motion of this character should be submitted in this chamber and that I, a representative of the Country party, should move it. However, it involves a principle that is far above all party considerations. 
That is so. If I were taken to task by the producers of this country, whether they be associated with the primary or the secondary divisions of production, for taking up the time of the Senate on this matter. I would reply that all the difficulties through which the world passed during the recent depression have been the result of international, rather than national causes. Nations can apply all sorts of remedies to overcome local economic troubles but whatever a nation may do individually in this respect it is merely applying palliatives. We may give to the patient an aspirin or phenacetin tablet to relieve pain, but we cannot cure economic disease unless we attend to the external as well as the internal causes. No producer, whether primary or secondary, can prosper unless the trade and the business of the world as a whole are on a sound basis. Unless there is proper intercourse between nations, subject always to the local requirements of each nation, and the atmosphere of fright, suspicion, fear, hatred . and distrust, which for so long has afflicted this world, is dispelled, and an atmosphere of international understanding and trust is established, the affairs of the world cannot progress. I suppose that if I were to ask the average person what is the first essential for world peace, the reply would be that if one could get the nations to understand each other the danger of international t friction and war would he greatly minimized and the path to ultimate peace would be open. It is axiomatic that if we could establish understanding, backed by faith and mutual trust, among the peoples of the world, an opportunity would be presented to educate public opinion in succeeding generations in the ideals of peace, to which we all, irrespective of party, colour, creed, or race, subscribe. If international relationships are encouraged in an atmosphere of mutual understanding and trust we shall have a chance to establish throughout the world a state of confidence and harmony which must ultimately lead to permanent peace. But how can we understand each other when we cannot talk to each other? How can we understand each other when we cannot freely exchange our thoughts? To-day we have not the vehicle for such intercourse. The need for establishing better understanding between the nations of the world is being stressed to-day by many thinking people of all nations. In a statement published in the last issue of  Nippon,  a Japanese quarterly, Koki  Hirota,  the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs says - 
To banish war is not, of course, a personal desire of myself alone. It is a common desire of the statesmen of all countries, none of whom wants to see hia fellow citizens sent to a battlefield in order to kill or be killed. 
Why, then does war, so universally detested, come irresistibly, as it were, and so frequently as it has come in the past 
There are a great many reasons, profound, complicated and often controversial. However,  X  only  wish to mention one factor which constitutes indisputably an underlying cause of wor. It is the lack of mutual understanding between nations which generates needless antipathy, suspicion, and apprehension. 
I regret to say that of all the great powers Japan is, perhaps, the one least understood by others. Not only because of Japan's geographic position, but because of the wide difference between our  language,  our customs and manners and our mode of living and those of the Occidental peoples, they have so far failed to comprehend fully and correctly the character of our State, and the spiritual qualities of our race . . . 
This gentleman, who has a great international reputation and is very influential among his own people, concurs in the opinion, which I am now putting forward, that the first essential to world peace is international understanding. Of course the world to-day has its pacts and the League of Nations - and it is right and proper that it should have such safeguards - but we cannot transform human nature in a day; we cannot achieve lasting peace by merely waving a magic wand. Only by applying ourselves patiently and assiduously to the task of educating and raising man's thoughts throughout the world can we make progress to that goal. And so we come to my proposal for the establishment of an international thought exchange, which I advocated towards- the end of 1934, when I was privileged to address the Constitutional Association of New South Wales. I said then that the proposal postulated a common language. I am not concerned what language is adopted. I am not out to advocate any particular system, whether it be Esperanto, basic English or any other medium of thought exchange, or whether it be an existing language or a new and artificial system to be devised for the purpose. The main essential with which I am concerned is that in each country the language which may be agreed to by the nations of the world in conference shall be made an official language. This is a matter far  above  party politics, for it concerns humanity in the highest sense of the word. I therefore desire to keep the proposal entirely clear of party politics, and I welcome the interest and co-operation of men of every party, sect, creed, colour, and kind whatsoever. 
By the discoveries and ' inventions which, in this rapidly-changing age, humanity has been permitted to make, mankind is surely being drawn closer together, so that it is only a question of time when many more international barriers must fall. We are in a changing age. By reason of such inventions as wireless and aeroplanes, the peoples of the world have already been throught more closely together than ever before. That is an interesting fact for men to ponder. In our lifetime we have seen great advances made in the realm of science. I do not say that in some respects, as perhaps in mathematics the ancients might not have eclipsed us; but, speaking generally, we have been privileged to live in an age which has seen greater progress than any other generation has witnessed. I knew as a young man Laurence Hargraves, who has been acclaimed the father of aviation in this country, and has received honours in other countries greater, perhaps, than in his own. I frequently visited his workshop at Point Piper, Sydney, where I saw him at work on his models. If in those days I had told my hard-headed business friends in the city what I had seen and that Hargraves had said that some day men would fly, they would sympathetically and kindly have tapped their foreheads, and smiled pityingly at the poor dreamer. There was a time when scientists said that man would never fly a machine heavier than air. They argued that a certain prehistoric reptile known as the pterodactyl was the heaviest thing that could fly. They could not visualize the mighty machines which carried loads weighing many tons from the sea coast to the gold-fields of New Guinea. The dream of Laurence Hargraves became an accomplished fact when  Mr. C.  W. A. Scott brought Australia within two days of Great Britain. We are not indulging in an idle dream if we determine to-night to light a torch which may light the way towards that temple of peace in which the civilization of the world must eventually worship or perish. 
By the sound waves transmitted through the ether man's thoughts expressed in words can be immediately made known to persons throughout the world. Thought is the most powerful factor for good or evil in the world; thought is stronger than nations. It is an axiom that if a man's thought can be raised his achievements can be raised also. Similarly, if the thought-level of a nation is raised, the whole national outlook is improved ; and if the thought-level of all the nations of the world is raised, then humanity itself has proceeded a little further along the road which leads to peace and progress. It is now possible to exchange sounds through the ether; but how futile it i3 to do that unless we have a common understanding of the meaning of the sounds that we hear. I quote now from an article of mine which was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 28th September, 1934, and was warmly supported by that journal. Having dealt with matters to which I have already referred to-night, I went on% to say - 
This brings us, then, to the thought of international agreement and international understanding. Let us remind ourselves that we already have had some experience of one or two fairly successful international conventions, e.g., the Postal Convention and the International Patent Convention. 
The Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  will bear rae out as to the nature of the International Patent Convention. It is a matter of common knowledge that at that conference the nations of the world agreed to standardize the principles underlying their patent laws, and put them into effect by legislation within their own borders. Although there are still slight differences in connexion with patents, the main principles are the same throughout the world, and are understood in every country. Having those conventions in mind, I proceeded -  
I now advocate another convention, and that an international conference should be called to which each of the nations should be asked to send their best brains and educational experts, as well as such governmental representatives as may be deemed advisable. This convention should then examine all suggested languages, combinations or systems of thought exchange, with strict regard to simplicity; and, having once decided, the parties to such conventions should then bind themselves to legislate in their respective countries, making the teaching of the common language decided upon compulsory in their primary schools and carrying it on till the completion of the secondary education of the child. 
The point which I wish to emphasize is the need to commence this teaching in the primary schools. At present in this country the teaching of languages is not begun in earnest until the children reach the secondary schools. My suggestion is that a commencement be made with the children in the kindergarten, and that the teaching should continue through the primary and secondary schools, with the result that in len or fifteen years there would be growing up in the world a race which could understand what was said when the wireless was turned on, irrespective of the country from which the broadcast came. The same would be true of writing and every other form of thought exchange. Gradually a common literature would grow, and we should then have achieved a true international thought exchange. One can easily imagine how the cream of the literature of the world would gradually drift into that common literature, so that, in time, the people of every nation would get a better understanding of the ideals and aspirations of their fellow-men of all nations. This is no dream, but a practical proposal which, if carried out, would cause the word " foreign " to lose its meaning and give place to " neighbour ". We should then hear no more of the " inscrutable mask of the foreigner ".. The world has not made such a success of its international' relationships that it can afford to ignore any proposal which may lead to peace. The proposal which I submit is one which all can support, irrespective of nation, state, party, creed, sect, or class. It is of equal importance to Christian, Buddhist, Mohammedan, Hindu, Jew, and, indeed, to mankind of every race and colour whatsoever. In my letter to the  Sydney Morning Herald,  I stated that I proposed that a start bc made by a petition to  His  Majesty the King asking him to call the nations together. I. myself, intended to start such a petition so that the people of Australia may show to the world how to lay the foundations of that temple of peace at whose shrine mankind must worship or perish. This development need not be too far distant if we apply ourselves sincerely to the task. I suggest that this is something worth working for. Before introducing my proposal into the realm of politics, I submitted it to a number of bodies such as the Constitutional Association, the Legacy Club and others, and I was pleased at the enthusiastic reception given to it. I now wish to acknowledge the generous help which I have received from the Leader of the Senate  (Sir George Pearce).  Honorable senators will remember that a few weeks ago the business-paper contained notice of a motion asking  His Excellency  the Governor-General to communicate with the Home authorities suggesting that an international convention be called to consider the proposal. The right honorable gentleman, with that wisdom which is born of long experience, suggested that the motion be amended slightly, in view of the fact that in the League of Nations there existed the machinery to give effect more quickly to the proposal. I thankfully acknowledge his assistance, and express the hope that the motion will receive the support of honorable senators, for it deals with a subject which must appeal to all. Even the most apathetic senator can honestly say to himself: " An international tongue can do no harm; it may do a lot of good; therefore it is worth giving a trial." Of late, gibes have been cast at the usefulness of this chamber. Sections of the pre.3s have devoted themselves to a cheap form of humour, which pretends that honorable senators are sleepy old gentlemen who never do anything. The motion which 1 have moved affords the Senate - the senior chamber of the National Parliament - an opportunity to give an invitation to the world which, though it may be ridiculed by tlie press in this country, will be hailed with delight in other countries, and will receive their most sympathetic and serious consideration. Some honorable senators may regard me as being an optimist for expressing the desire to have this motion communicated to the League of Nations, in view of the present difficult  circumstances confronting that organization. During the last few days I purposely refrained from participating in "the debate on the Sanctions Bill, because I did not wish to be drawn into some of the heated party controversy that so often manifests itself in such a discussion. I now direct attention to the fact that the League of Nations - I do not wish to arouse a controversy by referring to this matter - is a power for good in the world. It is backed by the noble foresight and the truly spiritual vision of the people of Great Britain, of whom we are proud to be the sons and daughters; their determination, sincerity, and sheer goodwill towards humanity will, I believe, do more to bring the nations of the world back to righteousness than all the guns, bluster, bluff, pomp, warring, speeches and platitudes of those who subscribed to the Covenant of the League and retired when, it did not suit them. During the last few months little Britain has done more than all others to lead the world back to the path of peace and goodwill. By its insistence on clinging to the one hope of the world - collective security - and maintaining at all costs the existence of the League of Nations, Britain has won the admiration and praise of even an influential section of the German nation. 1 believe that the League will prove to be a lasting institution, the foundation of a better order of things, and the genesis of a bigger, better and grander league which mankind will gladly join, recognizing that the only road to peace is mutual understanding. So I propose that an attempt be made to procure a common tongue throughout the world I am aware that objections will immediately enter the minds of some, honorable senators who, for the first time, have been called upon to consider this proposal. Often the statement has been made to me that the attainment of my objective will involve the abolition of 
English and the native tongues of other countries. That misunderstanding frequently arises. There would be not the slightest necessity to get rid of any existing mother tongue. A child would be taught two languages, one, the international language, and the other the mother tongue that it would learn in the home of its parents. "When we consider that some of the peoples of Europe are required to speak four or five tongues, the difficulty of introducing a second or international language is by no means insuperable. In some parts of Czechoslovakia, I understand, one must have five or six languages, and in Switzerland two or three languages in order to make any headway. Not only would an international thought exchange be created, and the bottle-neck of interpreters and diplomats - who may or may not toss against us with a doubleheaded penny, as it were, because we are at the mercy of their translations - be abolished, hut the creation of an international literature, and an international public opinion would begin. Although we may he the chosen representatives of the nation, I confess that in the long run we are never the leaders. "We bow to public opinion; so do all so-called leaders throughout the world. In the course of time when an international public opinion has developed with a free exchange of the thoughts of the people of the world, and we are freed of the fogs of misunderstanding which cause suspicion and endless antipathy, we shall find a clear way towards a higher order and a better and nobler state of things. Although it may seem an exaggeration, this Senate has the power to light a torch to illumine that path through the jungle of human misunderstanding to the very steps of the Temple of Peace. By forwarding this resolution with our blessing, may we not be taking in our own hands our little trowels and mortar, and each of us adding a brick to that edifice. I commend this proposal in all sincerity to honorable senators, and emphasize that an international language is not an idle dream. It is just as practical as the establishment of the international patents convention. The onus would be upon the votaries of other systems to prove their  case. The merits of the different systems might be discussed at Geneva, where they would receive an impartial hearing. In securing a . standardized pronunciation, scientific progress in the last  50  years would again come to the assistance of mankind. The gramophone has been invented, and some languages are now being taught in schools by this medium. The body which would decide the common means of thought exchange would, no doubt, commit the chosen words of that language to gramophone records, in order that a standardized pronunciation record could be multiplied in millions, and distributed among all countries. By this means the correct pronunciation of the international tongue could be acquiredby all races. At least it would be sufficiently general that children would be able to turn on the wireless, and not encounter the barrier of misunderstanding that, exists to-day. The unintelligible sounds of t o-day would be the expressed thoughts of every child, whether it lived in Moscow, Dresden, Berlin, London, Tokio, or New York. By that means it lies within our power at least to take a little step toward achieving that Christian ideal of " peace on earth, goodwill to men " to which we all earnestly aspire. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Sir GeorgePearce)  adjourned. 
Will the Senate have an opportunity this session to discuss a scheme for national insurance? 
40-HOUR WEEK. 
Does the Govern ment subscribe to the views of the Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Employment regarding the introduction of a 40-hour week in Australia? If not,will it repudiate all responsibility for the statements made by  Sir Frederick  Stewart? 
In view of the many statements made regarding the need for an amendment of the Electoral Act in order to restore something like a balance of power in the Senate, and the need for dealing with other important matters connected with electoral reform, will the Leader of the Senate say whether the Government has under consideration legislation to amend the Electoral Act, and if so, will the Senate have an opportunity to consider it this session? If not, when will such opportunity be provided ? 
SenatorSir GEORGE PEARCE. - It will take more than an amendmentofthe Electoral Act to restore the balance of power in the Senate. The honorable senator knows that it is not usual to announce government policy in reply to questions. The first reading of the Appropriation Bill will afford honorable senators an opportunity to discuss electoral reform. 
I did not ask the Leader of the Senate to disclose any item of government policy, but merely to give the Senate some information in regard to a report that legislation to amend the Electoral Act is contemplated. 
-Is the Leader of the Senate in a position to say whether an invitation has been extended to members of the Congress of the United States of America to visit Australia? If nothing has been done in that direction, will he ask the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  to issue an invitation at an early date? 
In view of the strictures passed by  Mr. C.  J. Cerutty, the Commonwealth AuditorGeneral, on the old-age pensions system in Australia, will the Leader of the Senate say when  Mr.. Cerutty  is expected to take up his residence in Canberra? Further, willhe inform the Senate how long  Mr. Cerutty  will have the right to deliver policy speeches to the people of Australia? Will  Mr. Cerruty  retire on a pension, and if so, to what amount will he be entitled on retirement? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce any information to give to the Senate regarding the whereabouts of the Minister directing negotiations for trade treaties  (Sir Henry Gullett).  Further, can he say how many treaties with other countries have been arranged by  Sir Henry  Gullett,and with what countries they have been entered into? 
No search parties have been sent out to find the Minister directing negotiations for trade treaties, as the Government has no uneasiness regarding his whereabouts. I ask the honorable senator to give notice of the remaining portion of his question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the wheat harvest is now commencing? 
Is it the intention of the Government to expedite the passage of legislation dealing with assistance to the industry, to enable those concerned to know how the harvest is to be handled? 
The Minister for Commerce has furnished the following replies to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
 Yes. 
The Commonwealth Government's policy was stated by the right honorable the Prime Minister last night when he said - 
The Commonwealth Government, in agreement with the governments of the States, have agreed to joint action in order to secure a home price forwheat. The Commonwealth Governmenthas introduced its legislation for this purpose. 
It is essential in order to provide some guarantee) for the wheat-growers for the coining harvest that the main wheat-growing States shall at once introduce their legislation. 
So farNew South Wales and Queensland are the only States that have done so. Victoria, I understand, will introduce its legislation next week. Until the other wheatgrowing States have taken action, as agreed upon, the Commonwealth Government is not prepared to announce any policy for the forthcoming harvest. 
The Commonwealth Government feels that the governments of the States should shoulder their obligation, and desires to point out that if no provision is made for the wheat-growers for the coming harvest the responsibility for that position will lie upon the States which do not take the action agreed upon. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice -  1.Is it a fact that  Mr. Starling  and  Mr. Thorpe  have been appointed to the Commonwealth Public Service Board as Assistant Commissioners ? 
In the event of the board being reconstituted with three independent commissioners, will the Prime Minister give an undertaking to appoint a returned soldier to the Third Commissionership, as prescribed by the Commonwealth Public Service Act? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
Yes. 
Full regard will bo given to the provisions of sub-section (2) of section11 of the Commonwealth Public Service Act in the event of any reconstitution of the Board of Commissioners. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
Is it '  a  fact that a new knee-action artificial leghas been invented by a wellknown firm of British limb manufacturers and taken over by the British Ministry of Tensions for issue to returned soldiers who have suffered above-knee leg (imputations? 
Is it a fact that a pattern of this knee has for some time past been in the possesion of the Repatriation Commision in Australia? 
If so, is the new design of knee to be used in the artificial leg issued to returned soldiers with above-knee amputations? 
In the event of the new knee being incorporated in the limb to be issued, when will limbs of the now design be available to limbless soldiers desiring the new knee? 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this measure is to provide for the control of the export of meat. The principle of export control has already been applied to dairy produce, dried fruits, canned fruits, and wine, and it is now proposed to extend it to meat and meat products. 
Although the basic principle proposed to be applied to meat is similar to that applied to other primary products there are differences, in regard both to the circumstances under which control is sought, and the extent of the powers proposed for the board. Export control has usually resulted from representations by the industries concerned. This was illustrated yesterday in the discussion on the dried fruits industry. In respect of meat it has resulted from the negotiations recently conducted in London between the British and dominion Governments. The circumstances under which these negotiations were conducted are well known to honorable senators, but a brief review of them may indicate the necessity for the present measure. 
For a number of years the United Kingdom has been practically the only world market for meat. Ten years ago, European countries imported approximately 300,000 tons of different classes of meat, but those imports have declined until they are now considerably less than 100,000 tons. For some years prior to the Ottawa Conference, all exporting countries were forced to concentrate on the British market, with the result that that market became glutted, low prices prevailed, and a general condition of disorganization existed. During the years preceding the Ottawa Conference, Australia's beef exports fluctuated without any material expansion, but mutton and lamb supplies were on the increase, and Australia had become an important factor in the supply of mutton and lamb to British consumers. As a result of the agreements reached at Ottawa, supplies of meat from foreign countries were reduced, market conditions improved, and the way was opened for greater supplies from the dominions. Increased supplies of beef, mutton and lamb from the dominions practically equalled the reduction of foreign supplies, and, from the point of view of the British producer, market conditions for beef were not greatly improved. This condition also had its effect upon prices received for beef supplied by the dominions. During the second half of 1934, the general position was causing considerable anxiety to the Commonwealth Government because of the conflicting interests of the dominions and foreign suppliers, and the existence of the agreement with Argentina. Since July, 1934, the British Government has had the right to regulate meat supplies from the dominions, subject to their being granted a corresponding share of the import trade. Differences of opinion regarding the effect of the AngloArgentine agreement on the rights of the dominions rendered personal consultation between British and dominion Ministers imperative. There were two chief points at issue when the delegation sailed from Australia, namely - 
The proposed limitation of Australia's total supplies of beef, mutton and lamb; and 
The danger of a check to Australia's right freely to ship beef in a. chilled, instead of a frozen condition. 
Honorable senators are aware that the negotiations in London were attended with gratifying success from Australia's point of view. The Australian delegation was able to ensure a market in the United Kingdom during 1935 for all the supplies which are available for export, and Australia has been able to maintain the remarkable expansion which has taken place in exports since 1932. In addition to the satisfactory result for all meat during 1935, an arrangement has been made in regard to mutton and lamb for the year 1936, under which Australia will supply up to 90,000 tons of these meats. If we succeed in supplying this quantity, Australia will have increased her supplies to the extent of 55 per cent. above the 1932 level, and 20 per cent. above the Ottawa base year - 1931-32 - which was thought at the time to be a figure beyond which a substantial increase was very unlikely. The supplies of beef from Australia in 1935 will exceed those of 1932 by 75 per cent., and those of the Ottawa year - 1931-32 - by 49 per cent. No arrangement has yet been concluded for beef beyond December, 1935. Negotiations in regard to future beef supplies are still proceeding. 
The export of chilled beef from Australia is of recent origin. Prior to 1934 it practically did not exist. In 1934, Australia's chilled beef supplies totalled 2,750 tons. When the delegation sailed from Australia in February last, the threatened check to chilled beef shipments was causing great concern. However, the efforts of the Government were successful in ensuring an unrestricted market for this commodity during the progress of the negotiations, and it is expected that the total supplies this year will be approximately 12,000 tons. Thus, the situation gives grounds for gratification, because we have so far ensured a market for all available supplies. However, there are other features of the situation which have been emphasized during the negotiations. It is the desire of the British Government that not only should there be some knowledge of the total supplies which are to be made available in any given year, but that there should be some regulation of those supplies during the year to ensure that the market shall be supplied according to its requirements. New Zealand has a Meat Board, which has been able to regulate supplies, and the South American meat trade is regulated in a very detailed maner. Hitherto, regulation of this type has not been applied to Australian shipments. It has been, felt that, to make future regulation of the British market fully effective, cooperation between all the governments and the British administration is essential. With this objective, a definite proposal arose out of the London negotiations as follows: - 
There should be an Empire meat council, representative of the United Kingdom and other Empire countries interested in the supply of meat to the United Kingdom market. The functions of this council would be to consider the well-being of the Empire meat trade, and to review the working of any agreement which might be in existence. 
There should also be a standing meat conference of all countries supplying meat to the United Kingdom market, to secure appropriate regulation of the flow of meat on to the British market in the light of supplies and of information regarding the trend of prices and production. 
The Empire body would be quite independent of, and in no way subordinate to, the general body. Neither body would have any statutory power to interfere with the total volume of supplies from any dominion. Their function would be to regulate the market within the limits of government policy and the provisions of existing agreements. 
The constitution of an Empire meat council and a standing meat conference was strongly urged during the negotiations by the British and New Zealand delegates, and it was also urged that there should be in each dominion a meat board affiliated with the Empire meat council. Without such a board, suitably constituted and with the necessary statutory powers, the Australian meat industry would be placed at a serious disadvantage, as compared with that of other countries, in attempting to give effect to any agreement that may be drawn up, and in ensuring that the utmost advantage should be taken of market conditions from time to time. 
For about eighteen months the Commonwealth Government has had the assistance, in its negotiations, of a voluntary Meat Advisory Committee, composed of representatives of producers and exporters from each State. This Advisory Committee has sat in conference with Federal and State Ministers, and has given very valuable advice and support to the Government in the conduct of negotiations. The position has now beenreached, however, when some more definite and permanent form of organization is called for. It is necessary to establish a board, with statutory powers of a limited character, which will be so composed, and clothed with such powers, that it will be able to protect the interests of the Australian meat export industry and encourage its further development. 
At the Commonwealth Meat Conference, held on the 5th October, 1935, which was attended by Commonwealth and State Ministers, and members of the Commonwealth Meat Advisory Committee, con sideration was given to a recommendation of the Advisory Committee that an Australian Meat Board be set up with power - 
to appoint a London representative ; 
to regulate shipments; 
to issue licences to export; 
to formulate quotas. 
That recommendation had been considered and affirmed at conferences representative of the industry in each State; in some cases the resolutions of the State conferences went further and recommended a board with somewhat wider powers. These resolutions were also placed before the Meat Conference, together with a draft bill based upon the original recommendation of the Advisory Committee. The principal decision of the conference was that a board having defined statutory powers should be established. It also dealt in detail with the constitution and functions of the board. This bill has accordingly been introduced to give effect to the decision of the conference, and to provide for the appointment of a board with the powers necessary to meet the position that exists. 
It is proposed that the board shall consist of eighteen members. One member shall be appointed to represent the Commonwealth Government. The meat producers will have nine representatives - one for each State, to be nominated by the stock-producer members of the Meat Advisory Committee in the States; one to be appointed on the nomination of the stock-producer members of the Southern Riverina Meat Advisory Committee to represent the meat producers of that district ; one to be appointed on the nomination of the Northern Territory Lessees Association to represent the meat producers of that territory; and one to be appointed on the nomination of the Australian Pig Council to represent the pig producers of Australia. 
The Riverina, for purposes of stock supplies, is practically a separate geographical area, as in this respect it cannot be considered to be definitely a part of Victoria or New South Wales. There will be three  representatives of the meat-exporting companies - one for each of the States of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland; these will be nominated by the Minister, after consultation, wherever practicable, with the Meat Exporters Association in each of those States. There will be one member appointed to represent co-operative meat-exporting organizations.Four members will be appointed to represent publicly-owned abattoirs and freezing works which deal with export, such members to be persons occupying for the time being the following positions :  - 
Metropolitan Meat Industry Com missioner, New South Wales. 
Chairman, Queensland Meat Industry Board. 
Manager, Government Produce Export Department, South Australia. 
General Manager, Western Australian Government Meat Works, Wyndham. 
The present occupants of these positions are Messrs. Merrett (New South Wales), Sunners (Queensland), Pope (South Australia), andFarrell (Western Australia). These gentlemen will be members of the board. The constitution of the board is designed to give representationto all sections of the industry, with a balance of representation on the side of the producers. 
An executive of seven members has also been provided for, as it has been felt that if all executive actshad to be decided upon at meetings of a board consisting of eighteen members, the operations of the board would be unduly hampered. A special beef committee, to be appointed from within the board, has been provided for, to ensure that the complex problems surrounding the beef industry shall receive the special consideration that is warranted. 
The provision upon which the whole success of the bill depends is that no meat shall be exported from Australia except under licence. Such licences will be issued by the Minister or a prescribed person to act on his behalf, but the board shall have power to recommend to the Minister the terms and conditions upon which licences to export meat shall be granted. It will be competent for the 
Minister to refuse to grant a licence, or to decline to approve of any conditions laid down by the board. This is the principle which has been adopted in other export control acts, and it has worked in a highly satisfactory manner. In this case, however, control is not to extend beyond the powers necessary to regulate shipments within the limits of any export programme which may be fixed from time to time. Control of other products includes, not, only power to regulate shipments, but also the power to determine through whom such products are to be sold, and, in respect of dried fruits, canned fruits and wine, to require that such products shall not be sold overseas at less than the authorized price. The boards set up in respect of other Australian industries exercise very wide powers, and may, if the producers so desire, assume full marketing control over exports. 
The main objective  of  the Australian Meat Board will be so to arrange clearances that full advantage maybe taken of overseas markets, consistent with the need for ensuring that the full season's output shall be disposed of. The bill does not compel producers to export any propor  tion  of their output. They will be at liberty  to  decide whether they will  sell  in Australia or in overseas markets. If they elect to sell in Australia they will not be subject to control by the board in any way. Theboard will be financed by a method similar to that adopted in other acts, that is to say, by a levy on meat exported. Provision is made in a complementary measure for a levy not exceeding  id.  per quarter on beef, and1d. per carcase  on  mutton, lamb, pork and veal, with corresponding charges on other classes of meat exported. These rates may be reduced, but not increased, by regulation. In any case, the maximum rates are but a small impost on the industry. On the basis of export during the year ended the 30th June, 1934, the maximum levieswould have amounted to, approximately, £25,000. Obviously, that sum is very much larger than will be required to finance the administrative expenses of the board, but it is intended that it shallbe empowered to devote portion of its funds to defraying the cost of promoting the sale of 
Australian meat overseas, by advertising and by undertaking any experiments calculated to . improvethe quality of meat intended for export, other provisions in the bill can be dealt with more appropriately in committee. I commend the measure to the favorable consideration of the Senate. 
 The members of the Opposition will not oppose the passage of this bill, but they may suggest certain amendments in committee. We are in the same happy position that we were in yesterday. Again we are delighted to find that, although belatedly, the Government has at last been converted to at least one plank of the policy of the Australian Labour party in that it is providing for the effective control of primary production. We believe that if the people of Australia will tolerate this Government sufficiently long its conversion may some day, be complete. Meanwhile we are gratified to find that it is now proceeding along the Labour party's straight and narrow path which leads towards national righteousness and progress. The proposed action of the Government is of special importance to the members of the Opposition, all of whom represent the State of Queensland which produces 90 percent. of the beef exported from Australia. 
Fully 90 per cent. of the beef exported from Australia is produced in Queensland. 
I repeat that 90 per cent. of the beef exported from Australia is grown in Queensland. We are gratified to find that somewhat belatedly the Government recognizes that private enterprise cannot any longer be entrusted with the management of this important primary industry. It has realized with Ruskin that " Competition in all things is anarchy and death, co-operation is in all things harmony and life." The Government now recognizes that competition in this and other similar industries is not in the best interests of the nation. 
-It does. For the last 25 years the members of the Labour party have been telling the people that unbridled competition brings ruin in its train. It was stated inthe House of Representatives that Vesteys have ceased to continue operations in Australia because of the extravagant demands made by Australian workmen. That is not true. Every one connected with the meat industry knows that Vesteys closed down their meat works in the Northern Territory, leaving expensive buildings and machinery in charge of a caretaker, not because of the demands of Australian workmen, but because it was to their advantage to obtain their supplies from Argentina. 
I know that, but they are not operating their extensive and expensive works. Vesteys did not discontinue operations in Australia because of the extravagant demands of labour. 
Some years ago I travelled north from Brisbane with a representative of Vesteys, who should be competent to speak on the subject, and as the conversation occurred many years ago I shall not be breaking any confidence if I disclose the information then given to me. I asked if it was true that Vesteys had closed down their meat works in the Northern Territory because of the extravagant demands of labour. After denying the statement he said that the company could afford to pay any reasonable wages but at that time it did not suit them to carry on in Australia because they could make bigger profits from their operations in Argentina. Owing to the way in which Great Britain is conducting this business, particularly in respect of quotas, Argentina has now been given practically dominion status. The amount of British capital invested in Argentina is between £450,000,000 and £500,000,000, but the amount of British capital invested in Government securities in Australia is £560,000,000. For over 25 years Australia has given wonderful preferences to 
Great Britain, but upon that point I shall have more to say later. Australia, unlike Argentina, has never defaulted in respect of its interest liabilities of Great Britain. 
That benighted State, under the leadership of  Mr. Lang,  proposed to set an example to the world ; but the proposal was thwarted by this Parliament. 
Yes, but only after some of us, including myself, had raised strenuous objections to his policy. The Argentine default in respect of interest due to Great Britain exceeded £200,000,000. When the ratification of the Ottawa agreement was being discussed by this chamber, the members of the then Labour opposition, including myself, stated definitely that the agreement would act detrimentally to the interests of Australia. 
Yes. The Ottawa agreement has been practically emasculated because of the other trade treaties that Great Britain has entered into with foreign countries. The preference which Australia extends to Great Britain - I do not suggest that it shouldbe cut down in any way - undeniably jeopardizes our opportunity to open up trade with other countries. The Labour party, which sees more clearly and immediately than any other party, the possible results of any (measure, was quick to recognize that danger. 
No, but I maintain that Great Britain should be requested to make Empire preference really Empire, in the proper meaning of the word, instead of granting partial preference to the dominions, and giving more considerable benefits to foreign countries. The Ottawa agreement was made ostensibly to encourage the development of Great Britain's home production and to give the dominions an increasing share of the trade of the United 
Kingdom. Both were worthy objectives. The Minister directing negotiations for trade treaties  (Sir Henry Gullett),  said in his speech on the United Kingdom and Australia Trade Agreement Bill- 
After  1933,  no restrictions on dominion exports are contemplated. 
That is a very definite statement. The Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  himself went further than I would have the temerity to go in this chamber when he stated that - 
Unless Australia can sell her produce freely in Britain it will not be able to meet its debt commitments. The Country party has always protested against restrictions on the export of Australian products. 
I remind honorable senators, however, that the Minister for Commerce expressed that sentiment when the Country party did not share the Government of Australia. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  in a statement issued at the beginning of November, 1934, denied that the Government had assented to the principle of restriction. He said- 
Both before and during the elections campaign. I clearly declared my Government's opposition to any proposal which implied restrictions. 
Since making that statement, the Prime Minister has visited the United Kingdom, but he found it impossible to secure that expanding share of the British market which was guaranteed to Australia by the Ottawa agreement. After the ratification of the Ottawa agreement, Great Britain commenced to enter into trade agreements with foreign countries, and strong condemnation of its pacts with Denmark, Argentina, and others was expressed by the Research Committee of the Empire Economic Union in its survey of Britain's trade policy. This body is not a Labour organization and has no connexion with the Labour party, either in Australia or abroad. Its report emphasized that these pacts not only hampered agriculture at home but also endangered relations between the various countries within the Empire. Therefore, it declared, the agreements should not be renewed ontheir expiration. I emphasize these points, because the Labour party believes in the development of trade within the Empire, while first fostering our home market, because it is the best. If we can increase the purchasing power of the Australian public, the consumption of our primary products will be stimulated. The Labour party advocates a policy to attain this objective, which would make the conditions in this country attractive to our kith and kin across the seas, and in this way increase our population. 
Obviously  Senator Duncan-Hughes  is incapable of understanding a definite statement. I said that the Labour party believes that the home market of Australia is the best possible market. I do not maintain that at the moment it is able to consume the greater proportion of what we produce, but I supplement my statement by saying that I would make it the best market by increasing the population and creatingpurchasing power sufficient to enable the people to buy greater quantities of Australian commodities. If that were done, there would be no further instances of under-nourished mothers, malnutrition and rickets, which result from the industrial and social policy of this Government. I am delighted with the present proposal because it is a step in the right direction. The Research Committee of the Empire Economic Union stated in its report - 
In the past, the pursuit of foreign trade has almost been an obsession and some people have regarded it as a peculiar merit of its own. We must realize that there is no merit in obtaining from a foreigner something which can bc obtained from a Briton at home or overseas. 
The agreement with Argentina provides for a 10 per cent, reduction of the quotas of chilled beef, but in respect of more than 10 per cent., that agreement provides for a corresponding reduction to b&gt;* imposed by Great Britain on meat supplied from other countries as well as Argentina. It also stipulates that no levies shall, be imposed during the currency of tha agreement. We were told that great benefits to the meat industry of Australia would accrue from the Ottawa agreement, but from every quarter of the continent - newspapers, experts, and the industry itself - comes the testimony that the very opposite has been the result. This bill will have the advantage of giving the industry an opportunity to control export, and in addition, the authority which will be created by the measure will be able to take a general Australia-wide survey of the industry, and do the things that are so strenuously objected to in another primary industry, referred to yesterday by  Senator McLeay.  A costly Government delegation visited Britain this year. I do not know whether any honorable senator has been curious enough to inquire, or has secured the information, about the expense incurred by that large delegation. 
No ;  Sir Henry  Gullett seems to have lost himself abroad or become entangled in trade agreements. The numerous array of Ministers and Government officials failed to effect any satisfactory settlement of the meat export problem. 
If it is claimed that the delegation did arrive at a satisfactory arrangement, the various authorities to whom' I have referred must be wrong. If they are wrong, I err in good company. One newspaper of some standing in the community, says that the whole thing has been a huge bluff and it asks the question: "What has Australia got out of it?" The paper itself answers the .question in the one significant word : "Nothing". Australia could not take advantage of the alleged opportunity to export more beef, because chilled beef is the only item mentioned and this branch of the industry in- the Commonwealth is only in the experimental stage. I admit that wonderful work is being done in that connexion and that shipments of chilled beef from Queensland have opened up in Britain in a highly satisfactory condition, due entirely to what the Queensland Control Board has been able to do through, the agency of  Mr. E.  F. Sunners and his associates. The authority to which I have referred stated - 
Notwithstanding the assertions of  Mr. Lyons  and other federal Ministers, the marketing of beef in England is still in the air. 
From the  Sunraysia Daily. 
Not only is this journal an authority, , but it is a greater authority on this particular subject than any of the honorable senators who have showed amusement at the mention of the name of the journal. If ever a representative in this chamber was an authority upon Empire trade, and an enthusiastic propagandist and protagonist of the policy, in Australia, South Africa, and elsewhere, it was ex-Senator R. D. Elliott. Honorable senators who expressed amusement at the mention of the  Sunraysia Daily  are merely revealing their own ignorance; their derision of an authority like ex-Senator Elliott is equivalent to impudence laughing at dignity. I shall now quote another authority. 
I propose now to quote very briefly from statements made by the Right Honorable Stanley Melbourne Bruce who,  as  the official representative of Australia in London should, and does, know a great deal about this business. Although I am not in the habit of throwing bouquets at my political opponents, I have to confess that, in respect of this Government's activities in connexion with the Australian meat export trade,  Mr. Bruce  knows his job. When last ho was in Australia I and a number of other representatives of this Parliament had an interview with the right honorable gentleman in Brisbane, and I frankly admit that I was astounded at the wealth and accuracy of his knowledge of all phases of the trade. 
I at least have had more years of experience than the honorable senator, and, therefore, I have a greater capacity to estimate worth when I discover it, even in my political opponents ; and as I have had a few labels attached to me in this Senate lately, the one added by the honorable senator will not perturb me.  Mr. Bruce,  in an address delivered to representatives of the Royal Empire Society at the summer school in Great Britain said, as reported in the Wellington  Evening Post,  a reput able anti-Labour journal of New Zealand, of the 10th October, 1934- 
They would have to apply to Britain, in regard to agriculture, some system of rules such as Australia in the Ottawa agreement used for the development of its secondary consideration - manufactured products. The question that was occupying everybody's mind just now was the beef industry in Great Britain. But there was a limit as to how far they could go in the production of prime British beef. In Britain a beast had to realize between £25 and £30, whereas in Argentina £8, and in Australia £10 would seem such remunerative prices that every one would be wanting to start growing beef. They wanted 5s.6d. a bushel for wheat in Britain, but close examination in Australia revealed that if the price only wont up to 3s. for the Australian farmer they would all be planting wheat.  Mr. Bruce  added: "But you have sot your limit, and if you stick to it you will be meeting the social and other sides, and you will not be putting an impossible burden on the people of this country." Continuing, he said: "There are certain treaties with Scandinavia, Argentina, and Central Europe. I will make only this one comment : Whatever any one might think, their effect for the next two years will be nothing at all. That gives us a breathing space, but it seems to me that at the end of the two years the whole position should be reviewed, and Britain oughtto review it with a very grim appreciation of her own interests, and remembering that she is the only market in the world of real interest to the* agricultural countries. To those of us who imagine we are going to give themaximum to Britain it is essential that she should live prosperously. There is one thing Australia can take that the Argentine and Denmark can never take - that is your people." 
That is the point. Unless Great Britain concedes what was guaranteed to us under the Ottawa agreement, namely, an ever expanding share of the United Kingdom market, it has no right to expect us to continue the substantial measure of preference which we give to British products in the Australian market. 
The following appeared in a recent issue of the  Sydney Morning Herald: - 
.lt is evident that  Senator Hardy  wishes my argument to be cribb'd, cabin'd  and confined. 
can best answer him by quoting  the  following letter, written by J. S. Collings, and published in the Brisbane  Courier Mail,  a reputable anti-Labour journal: -  Sir. 
In your subheader replying to a statement by  Mr. Randolph  Bedford, M.L.A., regarding the value of preferences that Australia has (ranted to British manufacturers during the past 28 years von assert that "they are a myth 
Some honorable senators apparently agree with that statement- 
Such an assertion conveys an impression that the preferences we have granted Britain practically annum t to nil. mid therefore I cannot refrain from emphasizing that in effect what  Mr. Bedford  contends is quite correct. 

 Sir H. S. Gullett, M.H.R.. then Minister for Trade and Customs, stated: - "Innumerable attempts have been made to assess the actual annual money value of Australia's preferences to British goods and the estimates lune varied us widely as from £3.000.000 to 
£10,000,000." 
[ hope that  Senator Hardy  is listening 
If the exhaustive overhaul of the Australian tariff and trade in preparation for the Ottawa Conference gave emphasis to one fact more than another, that fact was the remarkable efficacy of our preference as an aid to British trade in this market. Then turning to statements made by the present Prime. Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  we find that lie also lays great stress on the value of the preferences we have granted Britain. 
Speaking at Glasgow in June last, he said. " Australia provided a margin of preference to Great Britain against the foreigner in amounts that varied up to 35 per cent." 
If they discarded all those goods which Australia had to bring from tropical countries, and things that Britain could not supply, they found that out of. every £10 worth imported into Australia, £7 worth came from Great Britain. 
The position is as stated by  Mr. Bedford,  and this is proved by the facts as set out by  Mr. Lyons  at Glasgow, " We have given our all to Britain, and now have nothing to barter for trade with her. The British Minister for Agriculture.  Mr. W.  Elliot, recently said, 'Britain desires the development of Empire trade, hut ho added, ' the dominions must pav for their place in our market.' " 
What does he mean by that I wonder? 
For that I do not censure him. The letter continued - 

 Mr. J. Lawson. M.H.R., New South Wales, with whom the interview took place, in an article referring to this statement, said  Mr. Elliot  meant we must buy our place in British markets by purchasing British goods, and the extent to which we were granted priority over foreign in British market would be determined by the measure of our purchases from Britain. 
In other words, the silken ties of empire mean nothing.  Mr. Elliot  makes the definite statement that Australia will ger. nothing from Great Britain unless in return we are prepared to buy British goods. 
In the consideration of this and other measures of like nature that come before the Senate, we must realize the importance of fostering trade within the Empire, because, owing ' to the growth of economic nationalism, countries which formerly were good customers of ours are now our keenest competitors in world market.?. We must not be tender hearted in our endeavours to  increase  Australian trad.1 with other countries. On every occasion, if we are to do the right thing by our producers, primary and secondary, we must strike a hard, cold, matter-of-fact bargain, empire sentiment notwithstanding 
I am not blaming  Mr. Elliot,  the British Minister of Agriculture, for all that he has done, and is doing, to safeguard the interests of the primary producers of Great Britain. On the contrary, I freely admit that the course which he has taken is the only logical one in the circumstances. What I am trying to impress upon honorable senators opposite is that, merely because we happen to be a British dominion, we must not deceive ourselves that friendship and business can be mixed without one party to the transaction suffering. We have to put our commercial relations with Great Britain and the other dominions on a strictly business footing. I therefore welcome this bill because it is an attempt to do this. 
If I have conveyed that impression to honorable senators, I wish to correct it. But I have a suspicion that they are indulging in the somewhat unprofitable occupation of making deductions, a proceeding which caused an eruption in this chamber only a day or two ago. If they deduce from my argument something which is not contained in it, then I must be the innocent victim of their incapacity to understand an argument.  Mr. Elliot  is doing the only thing possible for a British Minister for Agriculture; had he done less he should have been ejected" from the Cabinet. But, as regards this bill, we should not deceive ourselves regarding its implications and probable final results so far as the industries of this country are concerned. 
Of course not. He is, nevertheless, a more important figure in the Government of that country than is the honorable senator or T, myself, in the Government of the 
Commonwealth. During the controversy about a year ago on this subject, the Premier of Queensland made an important statement with regard to the effect of export quotas on our primary industries. He addressed the following letter to the right honorable J. H. Thomas, Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs, under the date of 29th June, 1934- 
This article deals with poultry and pigs, which are meat. I am pointing out that GreatBritain gives Australia nothing for nothing. Australia has granted to Great Britain a substantial measure of preference for a, quarter of a century, and is still giving that preference. As Britain's third best customer Australia has a right to demand a full share of Empire trade. 
The honorable senator reminds me of a bad boy at school who does not intend to be satisfied. My enthusiasm is wasted on him. On the 3rd and 4th December, 1934, a conference convened by the present Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  was held in Canberra, and was attended by a number of distinguished representatives from the several States. Addressing the conference,  Dr. Earle  Page said - 
The policy of Great Britain in regard to. the restoration of British agriculture and the protection of British farmers ought not of itself prevent the expansion of Australian agriculture and pastoral development because of the enormous consuming capacity of the British people, which has made the English market the greatest agricultural market in the world. Unfortunately, however, Britain has entered into commitments with foreign countries which have limited her immediate capacity to absorb the  whole  of out production, notably meat because of her commitments with Argentine, and butter because of her commitments with Denmark and other European countries. We feel, however, that we must resist with all our strength the restriction of our exports' into the markets of the British Empire and the English market in particular. If we cannot sell freely in the English market, we shall not bo able to pay interest on the money which has been lent to us for developing and expanding agriculture; nor  win  we bo able to buy in the world's best market for  such  commodities the machinery and equipment necessary to enable us to carry on the policy for which the money was lent. 
As I have already said, for the next eighteen months Britain is bound to a- large degree to suit her policy to the fact that she is tied up with a number of international agreements which involve the marketing by foreign countries in Britain of various products similar to those in which Australia specializes. If Britain had freedom of action to-day and was insisting on restricting our exports, there i; no doubt that we would have seriously to consider whether we would not have to abandon our natural and proper policy of progressive development of our  own  resources, and provide employment for our own people by following out at home the same policies that were being imposed on us from abroad. 
There is no equivocation in that statement, which was made by the leader of the party to which  Senator Hardy  belongs. Yet  Senator Hardy  tries to discredit my statement that, while recognizing Britain's right to develop its home market, Australia must demand an everincreasing share of the British import trade. 

 - Dr. Earle Page went on to say - 
Were we forced by British restriction to this point, it would involve the abandonment by Australia of her .efforts to establish a sane policy of encouragement of economic industries and, by means of prohibitions and other restrictions, however uneconomic the policy or means, to provide for our total requirements internally. 
Such a policy I believe no Australian government has any desire to follow, but there are only two alternatives before us - either to expand by developing progressively our natural and  economic  industries, or to set about developing our unnatural and uneconomic industries. If  Ave  are forced  by  world  policies to abandon the first, that we shall bo obliged, willy-nilly, to consider adopting the second. 
Yet if I say the same things, my remarks, if not received with ribald laughter, are subjected to criticism, by way of interjection, by honorable senators, who should be better equipped mentally than to be guilty of such offences. In quoting the following extracts from a reputable Melbourne journal - one of the greatest daily newspapers in Australia - I do not tear sentences from their context or draw deductions : - 
The annual conference of the Associated Chambers of Commerce was opened to the accompaniment of the always lofty and sagacious eloquence of the Governor-General. Subsequent speeches relating more specifically co conference business were, however, in certain instances somewhat disfigured by statements  which  challenge analysis. The main thesis was expressed in such phrases as " The tremendous assistance that Britain gave to Australia in her time of crisis", and "the part Great Britain had played iu helping to bring us safely through the depression ". 
I have quoted from the Melbourne  Age,  of the 23rd January, 1935, a newspaper for which, I am sure,  Senator Payne  has profound respect. The  Age  continued - 
In the interests of truth, it is desirable to review such assertions. There is, of course, a type of spurious Australian whose" patriotism consists  solely  of a spirit of subordination to everything British. The validity of any argument, the  accuracy  of any statement, is discounted if it seems to fall short of blind approval of every phase of British policy. 
I have not said anything so strong as that this morning. I have merely said that we must understand that Australia's relations with Great Britain are on a business basis, and that Australia has the right to demand a  quid pro quo  from the Mother Country. 
I continue my quotation from the  Agc - 
For 25 years she granted Britain preferences amounting at times to £10,000,000 annually without receiving or seeing any reciprocity. . . . During the ten-year period 1922-32, Britain bought from us £472,000,000: we bought from her £537,000,000 . . . Since the Ottawa agreement was signed, Britain has made repeated attempts to have some of our staple exports restricted . . . Britain's annual food bill is approximately £510,000,000. Of that amount, Britain herself provides -some £220,000,000, the dominions supply £120;000,000, and the foreigner £170,000,000. And yet, during the  above  mentioned decennium, Britain bought from Argentina £434,000,000 more than she sold her; with Denmark, she had an adverse trade balance of £410,000,000; with Australia, she -had a favourable balance of £05,000,000  . . Britain does not buy one pound of Austraiian butter, one pound of Australian meat, beyond what she finds she needs, and, as the foregoing figures prove, she prefers the imports of the .foreigner. 
This is not the statement of a wild-eyed Labour supporter or of any member of this Opposition, but of a reputable antiLabour journal which is one of the biggest newspapers in Australia. 
At any rate the Labour party has a lot of grievances against it. I have endeavoured to emphasize that I "believe in trade within the Empire, that' we must develop that policy, and that we must recognize the tremendous difficulties under which Great Britain laboured during the last war when it learned for the first time in its history that it was utterly dependent for food supplies on countries situated a long distance away. Because of this, Britain proceeded to put its own house in order, and all it has done in this respect since the Great "War has been to that end. We should always try to understand the other fellow's point of view. That is my attitude in this chamber; I would be much more severe in my criticism of honorable senators opposite if I did not try to put myself in their place, realizing that they have -a case although it may be only a case of sorts. Whilst we admit that Britain must increase -its capacity to produce its own food requirements, but when it is still  unable  to supply all its own needs, we have a right to demand .that, because of our loyalty to the Mother Country and the preference we give it over foreign countries, we should receive an ever expanding share of British trade. 
This bill is mainly a machinery measure to give effect to the need, which the Government recognizes, for the control of .the meat export trade of this country. It embodies the general principle of collective action as applied to the control of primary production and export. The Opposition will support the bill, which, of course, will he carried. We may  Iki  ve something to say on different clauses in committee in an endeavour to improve the hill, hut we agree with its general principle. 
I fully anticipated that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  in discussing this hill, would deal with the relations, particularly the trade relations, -between Great Britain and Australia at the present time. I also expected that he would trot out the old bogey of Argentina, and try to show that the United Kingdom, in spite of its political and sentimental links with the dominions, is really discarding preference to the dominions in favour of Argentina. Early in his speech, the honorable senator referred to capital which he claimed the United  Kingdom had invested in Argentina. He declared that the amount of those investments was greater than the  amount  of British capital invested in Australia, and that the "commercial magnates" and the British Government would naturally favour Argentina in trade arrangements. As he has often clone before, the honorable senator pointed out that cold, hard commercial logic governs Great Britain's trade relations with other countries. Not only does the idea persist in some quarters in this chamber, hut the nian in the street also believes that the British Government has infinitely more capital invested in Argentina than in Australia. A cursory examination of the facts will show that  the  reverse is the case. Some time ago, 1 inquired into this matter, first to find out how much British governmental capital is invested in Argentina, and secondly, &gt;t&gt;he .amount of British private capital invested in that country. A leading economist points out - 
So far as can be found, the British Government has not itself made any investments in Argentina. A search of the finance accounts in British Parliamentary Papers, shows no mention of any Government loan nor Governmentguaranteed loan  to that  country, -and I think it would be correct to say that all British investments in Argentina, whether in the form of Government or other bonds, railways, or miscellaneous industry concerns, have been made by British individuals or companies. 
No, it has been compiled by an economist who has no association with that institution. ' If the Leader of the Opposition desires further proof as to whether the British. Government has a definite official stake in Argentina, I suggest that he should read the report of the British Department of Overseas Trade on  Economic Conditions in the Argentine Republic,  which was published in 1932. 
Perhaps the honorable senator did not say so in so many words, but he implied that because of such investments the trade relations between Great Britain and Australia is being adversely affected. 
The honorable senator also implied that favouritism was being shown to Argentina. I am endeavouring to prove that the honorable, senator was wrong. On page 25 of th&amp; report to which I have just referred calculations made by the  South American Journal  are quoted giving the total amount of British capital in Argentina at the end of 1930 at £435,128,4S2, of which £271,277,626 was invested in railways, £58,714,253 in Government 'bonds, and £105,136,603 in miscellaneous undertakings. An important point to be noted here is that ail of this capital was invested by private people, and not by the British Government. 
'How can the honorable senator contend that the investment of British private capital in Argentina must influence British governmental policy in trade matters? 
As there is only £435,12S,482 of British capital invested in Argentina, and a greater amount of British capital is invested in Australia, Australia should, according to the honorable senator's logic, enjoy more trade with Great Britain to-day. 
I remind the honorable senator that he said that Britain will deal with its trade with Australia on a hard and cold commercial basis. I tried to make him use the word " harsh " in this connexion, but he saw the pitfall and skilfully skidded around it. He said that we can only expect a hard commercial deal from Great Britain. This, I presume, means that Australia must make concessions equally with Britain. But the honorable senator apparently failed to take the precaution to inform his mind regarding the balance of trade between the United Kingdom and Australia. Had he done so, he would have received a distinct shock; because the actual figures show that England has indeed been more than generous to Australia in this respect. The details of trade between Australia and Great Britain since 1929, are as follows: - 

<graphic href="148332193511154_15_0.jpg"></graphic>


 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

I have submitted those figures, because the Leader of the Opposition has implied that Great Britain is endeavouring to make a hard and cold commercial bargain with Australia. Taking the whole of the figures we find that for the period mentioned the actual balance of trade in favour of Australia was £164,759,659. Had the Leader of the Opposition taken the troubleto check the trade figures, he would not have argued as he did. He also stressed the point that Great Britain had favoured Argentina as against the dominions, and was more or less insisting upon placing restrictions upon Australian exports of meat. Since the Ottawa agreement was entered into the value of meat exported from Australia to the United Kingdom has been as follows: In 1932, £45,900,000; 1933, £48,500,000; and in 1934, £50,000,000. How can the Leader of the Opposition say that Argentina is given preferential treatment, and that Australia has been subjected to undue restriction ? A study of the comparative figures shows that in 1932 Argentina sold to the United Kingdom meat valued at £50,000,000; in 1933, £41,000,000; and in 1934, £47,000,000. The quantity of Australian beef exported to the United Kingdom in 1935, after the signing of the Ottawa agreement, was 84,000 tons. The Leader of the Opposition said that that agreement had not assisted the Australian industry, but the figures show an increase of 49 per cent. above the 1931-32 level. The reductions of the quantities supplied by Argentina after the adoption of the Ottawa agreement, based on supplies prior to that time, were: - Mutton and lamb, 35 per cent.; frozen beef, 35 per cent. ; and chilled beef, 10 per cent. Apparently those figures do not mean anything to the Leader of the Opposition, who, for party purposes, claims that Great Britain has imposed hardships upon Australia. I understand that the Government wishes to dispose of this measure this afternoon, and as I do not wish to deprive other honorable senators of the opportunity to speak, I shall refer to only one other point - the representation to be granted to the Southern Riverina on the Australian Meat Board. Some honorable senators may say that in this respect it is proposed to give representation to a minority, but I can assure them that if they analyse the figures for the Southern Riverina they will find that such is not the case. In 1927-28, the production of mutton and lamb in New South "Wales was 504,953 carcasses, but in 1933-34, it had increased to 1,981,666 carcasses, or 293 per cent. Practically the whole of that increased production has been in the southern portion of the State. In these circumstances the producers in Southern Riverina are entitled to the representation proposed to be given to them on the Australian Meat Board. 
SenatorFOLL (Queensland) [2.22].- I am glad that the Government has decided to introduce this bill which provides machinery to ensure the effective marketing of Australian meat overseas. The measure is long overdue, because if there are any producers in Australia who have not received any practical assistance they are those engaged in producing and exporting meat. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator Hardy  have spoken concerning the relations between Argentina and Great Britain. Argentine beef has secured an extensive market in the United Kingdom, owing to the careful manner in which it is selected, handled and marketed until it ultimately reaches the consumers. In the past Australian producers and exporters have been inclined to place their product on a ship and, after giving it a " sailor's farewell," allow it to take its chance in the British market. Argentine producers have adopted totally different methods. They select the right type of beef, and watch carefully the details of slaughtering, shipments and marketing. They engage in extensive advertising, study the requirements1 of the consumers, and watch the possible market demand almost from day to day. They have also derived great advantage by shipping smaller beef. These and other factors were responsible for the paramount position they occupied in the market in the pea.k year 1933. I. agree very largely with the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  regarding the effrontery of Argentine producers, who believe that they should be placed in a position superior to that of the producers in the dominions. The conclusion I reached when in London recently was that a majority of the present British Government is overwhelmingly opposed to the attitude of Argentine producers; but at least three of its members are willing to place Argentina on the same basis as any of the dominions. The Australian delegation, led by the right honorable the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  and supported by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Menzies),  and other Ministers who were in London, was largely responsible for the improved position in which Australian exporters are now placed. Realizing the seriousness of the situation, the members of- the Australian delegation left the vessel on which they were proceeding to Great Britain at Naples, and travelled overland to London to place the views of the Commonwealth Government before the British authorities at the earliest possible moment. I do not agree with the Leader of the Opposition when he says that the delegation did not accomplish any good, because I know from personal experience that, as a result of Australia's representations, Argentine interests were compelled to recognize that they must take a somewhat inferior position to thedominions. The Leader of the Opposition also referred to extensive sales of Argentine beef in Britain ; but, as I have said, this is due largely to the manne* in which the Argentine product is handled and marketed. Considerable work will have to be done before Australia will be able to compete successfully with Argentina, particularly as regards the type of beef produced. Owing to low prices many meat producers in Queensland, in the Riverina, and in other parts of Australia, have been unable to improve their herds. This has prevented them from producing meat of the type required, and has resulted in their being unable to secure a larger share of the London market. It will be the responsibility of the board to improve the marketing methods in London, and this should result in Australian exporters receiving a larger share of Great Britain's meat business. Australian producers are compelled to face fierce opposition, particularly from certain members of the British Cabinet. I was privileged to hear a speech delivered by  Mr. 'Walter  Runciman, when he addressed a conference attended by the delegates of the Empire Parliamentary Association at Westminster Hall, in London. I recognized in that gentleman a hard-headed business man, who is prepared to do business in the best market regardless of whether supplies came from Argentina or any other foreign country or the dominions. I should like to correct a few of the figures quoted by  Senator Hardy  regarding trade between Australia and Great Britain between 1920 and 1933. The honorable senator endeavoured to substantiate his arguments by quoting figures for certain selected years. Speaking on this subject in London, I said - 
In 1934 Great Britain sold more than halt her exports of manufactured goods to Empire countries, and of the many types of highlyfinished goods, the Empire took from AO to 70 per cent, of Great Britain's total -exports. 
The four dominions - Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa - are sparsely populated countries. Their combined populations represent only 1.3 per cent, of the world's total, yet they bought in 1934 no loss than 22 per cent, of the total exports of the United Kingdom. The emphasis which must inevitably be laid upon the foregoing important facts should not blind us to the importance which Great Britain, as a great trading nation, must attach to the maintenance of satisfactory commercial relations with foreign countries. During the fourteen years from 1920 to 1933 Australia bought from the United Kingdom no less than £667,000,000 worth of goods on a sterling valuation, and during the same period the value of Australian imports retained in the United Kingdom was £635,300,000, leaving a balance of nearly £32,000,000 against Australia. 
I quoted figures over a period of six years. 
The period of fourteen years covers a time of depression and prosperity, which is the only true basis on which one can arrive at an accurate estimate of the average trade between the two countries. For the same years, the total value of British exports to Argentina was £351,800,000, a figure just exceeding half the value of British exports to Australia. But the value of Argentine imports retained in the United Kingdom was no less than £930,200,000 showing a balance of £578,000,000 in favour of Argentina. If the post depression years alone are taken, the figures are' necessarily on a less colossal scale. But during the three years L932-1934 the value of Australian purchases of British goods was £67,600,000 and the value of Australian imports to the United Kingdom was £144,600,000. The balance of £77,000,000 was just about sufficient to cover the annual interest bill which Australia pays to the United Kingdom. When dealing with these figures, it must be borne in mind, that it is impossible for Australia to export and import, on exactly the same basis. Allowance must, be made in our imports for the large interest bill which has to be paid in London. I remind  Senator Hardy  that, when the representatives of Argentina originally approached the British Government for the purpose of securing a beef agreement with Great Britain, they held the pistol at the head of the 
British Government and said : "Unless you are prepared to take a certain proportion of our beef we shall refuse to meet our interest obligations to Great Britain." No  such threat was ever made by Australia or any other dominion when seeking trade treaties with Great Britain. To my mind it was largely because of the stand-and-deliver attitude of the Argentine representatives at that time that that country was enabled to get the concessions accorded it on the London market. In the same three years  thu  value of Argentine purchases from Great Britain was £38,400,000 and of Argentine exports to the United Kingdom £139,600,000, leaving a balance of just over £100,000,000 which is more than sufficient to meet a normal rate of interest on British investments in Argentina and far more than is required to meet the actual payments on account of British money invested in that country. In 1934 South Africa purchased £30,000,000 worth of British goods, whereas the whole of South America, with a population ten times greater than, that of South Africa, purchased only £28.000,000 worth of British goods. New. Zealand, in 1934, bought British goods to the value of £11,400,000, but the total value of British exports  t(&gt;  China and Japan amounted to  only  £10,300,000. Canada bought £19,700,000 worth of British goods, and the United States took only £17,500,000 worth, showing that 10,000,000 British people in that dominion were more valuable to Great Britain than 120,000,000 people in the United States. The facts that India bought £36,600,000 worth of British goods and China £6,500,000 worth indicate the immense difference in the values of these two vast masses of population to the British manufacturer. 
From my own experience, and from conversations with those who took a prominent part in the meat negotiations in London this year, I know that had it not been for the presence of the Australian delegation in the Old Country and its representations regarding Australia's view of the import of dominion meat into the British market, we would not have received anything like the concessions that we are likely to get now. I sincerely trust that this meat board will realize the Government's expectations of  it. I believe that it has a great opportunity before it. By the proper organization of our marketing ' methods, the improvement of our herds, the supply of the quality of meat that is required on the British market, and the advertising of our product in order to persuade the British people themselves to acquire a taste for it, the board will do a tremendous amount of good for the beef industry of Australia. 
Evidently there is not much encouragement in the chamber for any honorable senator to dilate at great length on this bill. I am reminded of the story of a young peer who was addressing the House of Lords for the first time. When lie had finished his speech he was invited to explain his feelings. He said it was like talking to a lot of corpses in a charnel house by candle-light. 1 shall not say that addressing the Senate is an experience equal to that of the young lord, but one is discouraged by a similar lack of interest. Being first and foremost a representative of Queensland, I am particularly interested in this measure. The beef trade has had a hard struggle in the past few years, and any action by this or any State government which will improve conditions and prices will be welcomed by the industry. I realize the necessity for boards, and recognize that the development of keener competition between country and country makes it impossible for private enterprice to continue without governmental support. Therefore the governments of various countries have been forced to come to the assistance of private enterprise through the medium of boards in order that it may meet competition more successfully. The Minister explained that the board will have full and complete control, but in the next breath he stated that the producers will be able to sell at home and abroad as they please. There will be no distinction between home and foreign supplies, except that the board will control and regulate the supplies going from Australia to the markets of the world. The overseas market is practically confined to Britain. T hope that the board will give greater stability to the market and assist the producers. I notice that there is a representative for practically every section of the producing interests, but no representation is given to the workers. Apparently on the boards which are being set up in Australia the workers are ignored. The Labour party considers that the workers are part and parcel of the producing section; one may say that in the main, they are the producing section of the community. They are the strongest numerically in the actual expenditure of energy. Yet in all my experience I have never found a government prepared to give to the workers representation on a control board. In this instance the various interests in the meat trade - the abattoirs, the States and the producers - are represented. Even the Riverina has not been overlooked; I see no reason why it should be, and I compliment  Senator Hardy  on the recognition he is gaining for his proposed new State. Honorable senators have said that representation on the Meat Control Board has nothing to do with the  worker, but I make bold to say that the workers are just as much interested in the industry as is the station-owner, the manager of the abattoirs, or any one else. Associated with the beef industry are two of the largest organizations in Australia - the Australian Workers Union, which has "a membership of S0,000, although not all of those men are engaged in the pastoral and beef industries, and the Meat Employees Union. Are they not entitled to representation? The commissioners of the State railway systems recognize the value of the co-operation of their employees; they invite them to offer suggestions for the improvement of control, and rail transport. The employees place their proposals in a box, and if a suggestion is adopted, the author receives extra remuneration. On many occasions the workers have given of their best in this direction, and have received a modicum of compensation for it. I recall that on one occasion this zeal rebounded against the workers. One railway employee, through the suggestion in the box, informed the controller that in his particular section, a number of mon could be dispensed with. The controller accepted the suggestion, but the foreman discovered the identity of the author, who was the first to be dismissed 1 If as a result of greater efficiency, production can be increased and the number ofworking hours reduced, the employees are entitled to share in the accruing benefits, instead of being dismissed. If that principle is recognized why have the workers been given no representation on this board? Any arrangement which would mean greater co-operation between employers and employees, and would ensure that such industry would care for its workers, would be a valuable reform. I am aware that the Minister will argue that the Arbitration Court will take care of the workers. Although, in the matter of hours and wages, the Arbitration Court can be relied upon to do this, innumerable questions which arise from time to time could be dealt with if the workers in all industries had representation on their boards of management. At one time, I was a member of an important trade union, but because the industry in which I was employed was in the hands of private enterprise we had no voice whatever in its control. We on this side take the view that the workers should have representation on all public and semi-public bodies.  Senator Collings  this morning reminded us that profit and not sentiment was the determining factor in all trade and business relations. Since the signing of the Ottawa agreement, under which Australia was promised an expanding share of the British market, the British Government made an agreement with Argentina with regard to chilled beef imports, and this instrument has tied the hands of British Ministers in their negotiations with the Commonwealth as regards exports of Australian chilled beef. There is, however, no restriction upon the quantity of frozen beef which may be exported from this country to Great Britain, but of late years British consumers have shown a decided preference for chilled beef. Dealing with the restrictions imposed by the British Government on imports of chilled beef from Australia the Brisbane  Telegraph,  in its issue of the 5th September, 1935, made this comment - 
We confine ourselves just now to an inquiry as to why there should be more severe restriction on Australian chilled beef than on Australian beef chilled or frozen. In the current calendar year Britain has agreed to accept from Australia 84,350 tons of beef, of which 12,300 tons may be despatched in chilled condition. Other countries are allowed to send the bulk of their shipments chilled. Why is this? It is difficult to see how a chilled carcase can in any way be a greater detriment to the home producer than a frozen carcase; or if it is, why foreigners may specialize in chilled, as against frozen, and dominion countries must do the opposite. At the present time, as revealed in our news columns the other day, despite the temporary cattle shortage, the quantity of beef available for export as chilled at the Brisbane abattoirs exceeds the allowance for the whole of Queensland, so it is foolish to pretend that the trade is not suffering a restriction. 
That is the case for chilled beef. There is restriction on the quantity which may be exported to the United Kingdom, and as time goes on we may expect greater restrictions to be imposed. This tendency makes it all the more necessary for the industry, as a whole, to be thoroughly organized, in order that the production may be marketed to the best advantage. I should like to deal with this subject at greater length, but as the time available for the discussion is limited I shall content myself with saying that, because of the limitation of the available markets and because of the restrictions that are being placed on exports, control of the meat industry is necessary, and the time is rapidly approaching when we, as legislators, instead of appointing boards to handle the complex problems that arise from time to time, should seek deeper for the basic causes with a view to evolving other and more effective schemes for the expansion of our primary and secondary industries. I support the bill, but recognize its limitations. 
that Queensland was responsible for over 90 per cent. of the total beef exports from Australia was challenged, and I have obtained a recent copy of the  Commonwealth, Year-Book  in order to establish the facts. I find that in 1930 there were, in round figures, 5,500,000 head of cattle in Queensland, out of 11,500,000 head in the Commonwealth. The consumption of beef  per capita  in Queensland is probably much lower than in other States of the Commonwealth, owing to the warmer climate. Although Queensland has only one-seventh of the population of the Commonwealth, yet it  produces approximately one-half of Australia's cattle ; thus it is obvious that this State would be in a position to provide 90 per cent, of the beef exported. livery one must, I think, admit that the day of the middleman in the sale of our primary products is rapidly passing, and that the future control of primary industries must be in the hands of boards representative of the producers themselves. They realize that, if they are to secure a reasonable return for their labour, they must organize as the workers in other industries have organized. I assume that most honorable senators at some time or other paid a visit to the Mother Country, and I think they will agree with me when I say that, after a steady diet of frozen beef and mutton on the voyage, the change to fresh meat on the railway journey to London is* much appreciated. Because of their proximity to the British market, the meat producers of the Argentine Republic, our strongest competitors in the export beef trade, have, in more recent years, been able to market their beef chilled instead of frozen. Our exporters have, however, succeeded in applying the same process to Australian exports with the result that Australian beef is now landed in London in splendid condition and is in increasing demand. It is gratifying to know that this bill provides the machinery for the more effective control of the meat export trade, and that it will help us to secure a larger share of the British market. I consider that the most satisfactory commercial relations are those which are founded on a strictly business basis. In our business relations with Britain, so far as Britain is concerned, there is 99 per cent, business and 1 per cent, sentiment. Because of the large amount of British capital invested in the Argentine Republic, that country, in its business relations with Great Britain and as a competitor of Australia, may be regarded as a British colony, and we may be sure that British capitalists with investments in Argentina will use every means in their power to prevent Australia from getting an expanding share of the British market in chilled beef or  mutton.  Some honorable senators opposite believe that, because Australia is a British dominion, we have always received special treatment in the British market. It will be within the memory of most honorable senators that, during the war years, our primary products were sold in Great Britain at much below world parity. It would be safe to say that, had we received world parity for our wheat and wool during those years, Australia would be the richer by hundreds of millions of pounds; indeed one estimate which I read was that the amount lost by our producers would have been sufficient to pay off the entire external debt of the Commonwealth. The bill should assist to put the Australian meatexport business on a sounder 'basis, because the distribution of produce is almost as important as its production. In the British market Australia has to fight the British capital, invested in the meat business in Argentina. 
One honorable senator said that the wool-growing industry could not he managed by a hoard such as is proposed in this bill, or by an organization similar to Bawra. I remind him of the wonderful service rendered to Australia by Bawra, and go so far as to say that had that organization been continued, the. wool industry, particularly in the depression years, would have benefited considerably. 
-Bawra gave great satisfaction to the producers of wool. 
-I remind  Senator Abbott  that an association of graziers, with head-quarters in Roma, Queensland, lately issued an appeal to members of Parliament to bring about a better state of affairs in regard to the marketing of wool, and actually invited them to make suggestions for improvement. In my opinion, Bawra should have been continued. 
The Opposition is prepared to allow this bill to pass to-day, hut its willingness to do that should not he taken as  a precedent. It is asking rather too much to expect a bill of such importance to be passed through all its stages in one short sitting. Should the Government attempt to make a practice of this procedure, I shall do my best to prevent it. I regard this measure as a step towards national socialism, which should have been taken years ago in the interests, not only of the producers, but also of the people of Australia generally. 
I come now to the composition of the board. It would appear from clause 5, which sets out the various interests which are to be represented, that the board will consist of at least sixteen members; there may be as many as twenty members. The Opposition is of the opinion that the workers who are engaged in the various technical processes connected with the meat industry should have representation on the board. There is no desire to take the control of the industry out of the hands of the. other interests, but it would be of value if the board contained some men with technical knowledge of the various processes of meat production, from the rearing of the cattle to the freezing of the meat and its shipment abroad. The Opposition will move an amendment to give representation to the workers, but, it knows that it will not be accepted by the Government. Nevertheless, we are of opinion that the board would be strengthened by the inclusion of one or two men with a practical knowledge of the various processes associated with the production of meat. 
 I should have no objection to the consumers of meat in Australia being represented on the board. I go further, and suggest that it might be well to appoint some person to get in touch with consumers of meat in England in order that their requirements might be ascertained. 
The Opposition commends the measure because it will tend to eliminate middlemen, cheapen costs, and increase the value of stock, as well as lead to a better understanding of the requirements of overseas consumers. One reason why Argentina meat interests have been such powerful competitors is that they know what the 
British consumer wants. I hope that the board will be successful in its efforts to develop the Australian meat industry. 
 I had not intended to speak on this bill because the Leader of the Country party in the Senate  (Senator Hardy)  has already expressed the views of the party; but I now rise 'because of some suggestions made 'by members of the Opposition. The Minister pointed out that the principle underlying this bill is the same as that underlying other legislation dealing with the dried fruits and dairying industries. In those cases control boards were established at the request of the producers themselves. Opposition members seem to have entirely misunderstood the control of the wool industry by Bawra. The wool industry was never compulsorily controlled  by  Bawra. Should the present 'Opposition ever occupy the treasury bench and attempt to force legislation upon the wool industry, it would do well to  remember  that " It is manners to wait until one is asked." When the wool industry, which has been the mainstay of Australia through the lean years, sees fit 'to ask for control, it will he time for Parliament to intervene. 
 in reply.  - I shall be brief in my reply. During the discussion of the 'bill,  Opposition  speakers said that the Ottawa agreement had proved a failure. I shall give some figures to show that, so far from being a failure, it has conferred a great advantage on Australia. 
The following table shows the exports of beef, mutton and lamb from Australia during recent years - 

<graphic href="148332193511154_21_1.jpg"></graphic>

It is expected that the supplies ofbeef from Australia for 1935 will exceed the figures for 1932 by 75 per cent., and those of the Ottawa year by 49 per cent. In respect of mutton and lamb, the arrangement represents an increase of 55 per cent. above the 1932 supplies and 20 per cent. above the figures for the Ottawa year. In the light of those figures, it is futile to argue that the Ottawa agreement has been a failure. 

 Senator J. V. MacDonald said that the Opposition proposes' to move an amendment to alter the constitution of the board. I point out that this is not an industrial measure and that industrialists as such are not entitled to representation on the board. 
The board will have nothing to do with such conditions; these can be neither improved nor made worse by anything which can possibly be done under this bill. 
They are, but only in the sense that the ladies of Melbourne may be said to be interested in the welfare of Australia. The bill relates merely to the control of exports. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
.- I move- 
That after sub-clause (2) the following paragraph be inserted: - 
Two members to represent employees. 
I said all I desired to say on this matter in the course of my secondreading speech and I do not propose now to elaborate those remarks. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move - 
That sub-clause 10 be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following new sub-clause - 
The members appointed to represent publicly-owned abattoirs and freezing works which deal with meat for export shall be - 
the person for the time being holding the position of Metropolitan Meat Industry Commissioner in the State of New South Wales; 
the person for the time being holding the position of chairman, Queensland Meat Industry Board; 
the person holding at the commencement of this act the position of general manager, Government Produce Department, State of South Australia or in the event of that person ceasing to hold that position or ceasing in pursuance of this section to hold office as a member of. the board, such person as is appointed by the Governor-General on the nomination of the Metropolitan and Export Abattoirs Board in the State of South Australia; 
the person for the time holding the position of general manager, Western Australia Government Meat Works, Wyndham. 
Each member shall hold office during the pleasure of the Governor-General. 
No principle or alteration of meaning is involved in this amendment; it is merely a drafting revision. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 I move- 
That after sub-clause 10 the following subclause be inserted: - 10a. The members appointed in pursuance of paragraph (i) of sub-section 2 of this section shall bo one person nominated by the Meat Industry Employees' Union of Australia and one person nominated by the Australian Workers' Union. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause 5, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 15 agreed to. 
Clause 16 verbally amended, and as amended agreed to. 
Clauses 17 to 21 agreed to. 
Clause 22. (Moneys in fund uninvested may be lodged in bank). 
I ask the Minister to explain the significance of the provision that moneys lodged in the bank to the credit of the Meat Export Fund shall be held to be "moneys of the Crown". What would be the position of a claimant who brought an action against the board for heavy damages? Would he be prevented by this provision from obtaining damages against the board? 
SenatorBRENNAN (Victoria- Assistant Minister) [3.30]. - The honorable senatorwill find that a later clause of the bill touches upon the subject which he has raised. The members of the board are not personally liable for anything which they have done in good faith. Doubtless the honorable senator is concerned because the clause provides that the moneys shall be held to be moneys of the Crown, but that does not invest the board with what is legally termed the " shield of the Crown ". The board is liable to be sued as a corporation, but the fact that its moneys are to be safeguarded does not place its members on a higher pinnacle than they would otherwise be. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 23 to 28 agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 
Motion (by  Senator Brennan)  proposed - 
That the report be adopted. 
Can the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  state why the southernRiverina is to be given representation on the Australian Meat Board. I may have been absent when this point was explained. 
.- The southern Riverina is a large and important mutton and lamb-producing centre. It is out of direct contact with Melbourne on the one hand and with Sydney on the other, and as it is in a somewhat unique geographical position it has been decided that it is entitled to representation on the board. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[3.37].- I move- 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
The bill contains some minor amendments of the New Guinea Act which experience has shown to be desirable. As honorable senators are aware,  the New Guinea Act 1920 made provision for the acceptance of the mandate for the Government of the Territory of New Guinea and for the establishment of civil government for the territory. That act provided for the appointment of an Administrator of the territory, who is charged with the duty of administering the government on behalf of the Commonwealth. Provision was also made for the Governor-General to make ordinances having the force of law in and in relation to the territory. Amendments of a minor nature for the purpose of facilitating the administration were made to the act in 1926. 
In the New Guinea Act 1932 a measure of local government was granted to the territory. The power given to the Governor-General in the principal act to make ordinances for the territory was repealed, and legislative functions were entrusted to a Legislative Council. The amending act also made provision for an Executive Council to advise and assist the Administrator. Ordinances passed by the Legislative Council are not in force until assented to by the Administrator or by the Governor-General, and ordinances assented to by the Administrator may be disallowed by the GovernorGeneral. The New Guinea Act 1932 came into operation on the 9th May, 1933, and the Executive Council and the Legislative Council were established from that date. 
The proposed amendments are set out in clauses 2 and 3 of the bill. Clause 2 amends section 12 of the principal act. This section provides for the appointment of an Executive Council consisting of nine members, who are to be appointed by the Governor-General, and who are to hold office during his pleasure. Eight of the members are to he officers of the territory and onemember is chosenby and from the nonofficial members of the Legislative Council. If the non-official members of the Legislative Council fail to choose one of their number for appointment as a member of the Executive Council, the Governor-General may appoint a nonofficial member of the Legislative Council, or any other person not an officer of the territory, to be the non-official member of the Executive Council. 
Under section 12, the GovernorGeneral may, in the event of illness or absence from the territory of an official member, appoint a deputy. Such deputy has all the powers of a member. There is, however, no power to appoint a deputy non-official member. Meetings of the Executive Council' are held at Rabaul, and it has been found that the nonofficial member may, on account of absence from the territory, from Rabaul, or on account of illness, not always be available to attend such meetings. It is,' therefore, proposed that provision be made for the appointment of a deputy non-official member to act in the place of the non-official member when he is unable to attend owing to illness" or absence from the territory, or when he lias been exempted by the Administrator from attendance at any meeting of the Executive Council. It is further proposed that, when a deputy of a non-official member is attending a meeting of the  Executive  Council, he shall exercise all the powers and functions of a member of the Executive Council. He will be selected in the same manner as is the non-official member, and will be appointed by the GovernorGeneral. 
The next amendment concerns section 25 of the principal act, which authorizes the Legislative Council to make standing rules and orders "with respect to the order and conduct of its business and proceedings. Pursuant to that authority, the Legislative Council made standing orders which included a provision to the effect that the Administrator should appoint such times for holding each session of the council as he thought fit, and for proroguing the council from time to time. The standing order also provides that there shall 'he a session of the council at least twice in each year. The Crown Law authorities have expressed the opinion that such a standing order is beyond the scope of the authority vested in the Legislative Council to make rules, and that the power purported to be given by the standing order is a matter which should he dealt with by legislation. The Legislative Council had its inaugural meeting convoked by instruction from the Governor-General on the 3rd May, 1933. 
In the absence of provision in the act in relation to the fixation of .times for meetings of the council, an instruction must be issued by the Governor-General to the Administrator upon each occasion it is desired that the council should assemble for the conduct of business. .It is most desirable' that the Administrator should be in a position to call the council together for business when he deems it advisable. It is therefore proposed that provision be made to authorize the Administrator, by notice published in the  New Guinea Gazette,  to appoint such times as he thinks fit for holding sessions of the council. He is to have power also to prorogue the council. Honorable senators will appreciate that there is nothing very contentious in the bill, and I commend it to the favorable consideration of the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator  Collings)  adjourned. 
[3.1]. - I desire to inform honorable senators that the following papers have been laid on the table of the Parliamentary Library :  - 
Reply of the Commonwealth Government, dated the 22nd November, 1935, to the Italian Note of Protest in connexion with the application of Sanctions sent to all State Members of the League, dated the 12th November, 1935. 
Letter dated the 16th November, 1935, received by the SecretaryGeneral of the League of Nations from the Ethiopian Minister in Paris, submitting the views of his Government on the Italian Note referred to above. 
On the 14th November,  Senator Arkins  asked the following questions,  upon notice :  - 
Is it a fact that  Mr. W.  J. Grieves, who held the position of leader in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Sydney symphony orchestra for a period of four years, has been relieved of that position? 
Is it also a fact that  Mr. Grieves  was first made acquainted with his transfer from this important position by a letter from the New South Wales manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, offering him the subordinate position of leader of the second violins, and at the same time stating the salary to be paid? 
Why were reasons not given for the transfer ? 
What were the reasons that actuated the commission in taking such a drastic step against an old employee of the commission, whose musicianship is of the highest; and will the Minister request the commission to give the Teasons for such transfer in full? 
If the replies to questions 1 and 2 are in the affirmative, will not the methods used by the commission have a detrimental effect upon the Australian musical world, and also belittle a musician of Australian-wide reputation? 
Is it not a fact that  Mr. W.  J. Grieves is accepted as amongst the most accomplished orchestra leaders in the Commonwealth? 
Will the Minister make available all papers in connexion with the matter? 
Also, will the Minister at the same time make available to honorable senators the special report made by  Sir Hamilton  Harty at the conclusion of his 1034 season upon the work of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Sydney symphony orchestra? 
I am now able to state, for the information of the honorable senator, that, under the Australian Broadcasting Commission Act, it is the responsibility of the commission to engage such officers and servants as it thinks necessary, and it is obvious that this responsibility can only be accepted by the commission when it is free to exercise its discretion as to the suitability of any person to undertake a specific duty or responsibility. In the case under notice, the commission has acted in what it believes to be the best interests of the broadcasting service for which it is responsible, and it would be inimical to the proper carrying out of the commission's functions to interfere in what is obviously an aspect of every-day management. 
Is it the intention of the Postmaster-General to refuse to give information to the Senate regarding the administration by the Australian Broadcasting Commission if the information asked for is considered to relate to purely business transactions of the commission? Will the Minister make available to the Senate the report for which I asked previously, namely, that made by  Sir Hamilton  Harty after he left Australia? 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Will the Postmaster General inquire into the difficulties -which a number of Fre- mantle citizens are experiencing in connexion with an application for a licence for a " B " class broadcasting station at Fremantle? Will he kindly expedite consideration of this application, and the allotment of a wave length and other details involved in the application? 
On the 15th November, 1935,  Senator Cooper  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation the following questions,  upon notice: - 
Is it a fact that a new knee-action artificial leghas been invented by a well-known firm of British limb manufacturers, and taken over by the British Ministry of Pensions for issue to returned soldiers who have suffered above-knee leg amputations? 
Is it a fact that a pattern of this knee has for some time past been in the possession of the Repatriation Commission in Australia? 
If so, is the new design of knee to be used in the artificial leg issued to returned soldiers with above-knee amputations? 
In the event of the new knee being incorporated in the limb to be issued, when will limbs of the new design be available to limbless soldiers desiring the new knee? 
The Minister for Repatriation has  sup plied  the following answers: - 
Yes. The contract entered into by the Ministry of Pensions with a private firm of limb-makers for the manufacture and repair of artificial replacements and surgical aids provides for the supply, where required, of a new device of friction knee joint. By this device the degree of stiffness of the knee action can be adjusted by the wearer. 
Yes. 
The new device is not usable for all types of above-the-knee amputations. It is being thoroughly tested by the commission's technical adviser at the Common wealth Artificial Limb Factory. In some cases it has been demonstrated that the type of friction kneejoint already in use at the Commonwealth Artificial Limb Factory is more suitable - this applies particularly where the amputee has a very long stump. 
The answer to this question depends upon the result of the investigation mentioned in 3 above. If the device is adopted, it will not be necessary to issue new metal limbs as the adjustment can bo inserted into friction kneejoints at present in use. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
How much pension or superannuation will the Auditor-General,  Mr. C.  J. Cerutty, receive on his retirement from the Commonwealth Public Service? 

 Mr. Cerutty on retirement will receive a pension of ?416 per annum under the Commonwealth superannuation scheme to which he has been a contributor since its inception. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Government any information concerning the number of trade treaties entered into by  Sir Henry  Gullett? 
With what countries have these treaties been arranged? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer :  - 1 and 2.No trade treaties have been concluded by  Sir Henry  Gullett. 
I move - 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
When this bill was previously before the Senate certain alterations suggested by the Government were agreed to, and sent to the House of Representatives for  iti  concurrence. The Senate desired to provide that each member should hold office during the pleasure of the GovernorGeneral, but the House of Representatives thought that difficulties might arise in the event of a person who was removed from office by the Governor-General still holding office in the State. For instance, should the person holding the- position, of Metropolitan Meat Industry Commissioner in the State of New South Wales be removed from the Meat Board by the Governor-General, but still hold his position in the State, a deadlock would arise, because although a vacancy would have occurred, there would be no means of filling it. The House of Representatives now desires to add at the end of paragraph  a  the words : " or in the event of that person ceasing, in pursuance of . this section to hold office as a member of the board, such person as is appointed by the GovernorGeneral on the nomination of the Governor in Council of that State ". The proposed amendment will avoid any deadlock. The amendments to paragraphsb, c and  d  are exactly to the same effect, namely, to remove the possibility of a deadlock being created. The bill, in the form in which it left this chamber, made no provision at all for the filling of a vacancy, but now it is provided that if a delegate is removed by the Governor-General, a successor may be appointed on the nomination of the Government of the State. The explanation of paragraph  a.  applies equally to paragraphs  b, c  and  d.  The object is only to meet a situation that might possibly arise. The principle of the bill is not affected, and I therefore request the Senate to accept the amendments. 
.- These amendments may remove the possibility of a deadlock, but they introduce a very much more dangerous possibility. The object of the measure is to enable  the meat-export industry to be managed by those actually engaged in it. Under these amendments the Governor-General in Council may at any time remove any member of the board and appoint a successor who may, or may not, have any knowledge of the meat trade. If the Governor-General in Council did not agree with the political views of the four gentlemen on the board, they could be removed and be replaced by persons whose politics were more acceptable. 
The principle cuts both ways. I shall be satisfied if an amendment be made to provide that a nominee to replace a member of the board removed by the Governor-General shall occupy a managerial position in the meat industry. ( 
The point raised by  Senator Leckie  introduces the question of whether we can trust governors in council or the Governor-General in Council to try to operate an act as Parliament intended. The bill does provide for the representation of certain publicly-owned abattoirs, and it is quite true that the Governor-General in Council may remove those representatives. But then, it is equally true that the Government, which is responsible for this bill, need never have introduced it. The Government initiated this legislation for the purpose of expediting and strengthening the control of meat for export in the interests of the whole of the meat trade. The honorable senator must admit the possibility of a deadlock arising as a result of the amendments made to the bill by this chamber. The problem was fo find out how we could overcome the possible difficulty of the GovernorGeneral in Council removing a member of the board and appointing another person who would be prohibited by the mandatory requirements of subclause  10(a)  The easiest way out of the difficulty was to keep the control, in the hands of the State by permitting a Governor in Council to nominate some person whose appointment would be subject to the approval of the Governor General. Hence there is a double safeguard. First, a person must be nominated by the Governor in Council of the State, and, secondly, his appointment must be made by the GovernorGeneral in Council. I assure  Senator Leckie  that the amendment entails no serious risk, such as he envisages. Having regard to the personnel of the board, I assure honorable senators that only men who are associated with the industry will be appointed. If we cannot trust govern.nors in council and the Governor-General in Council to do the right thing in this case we cannot trust them to administer other laws. 
 I consider that there is definitely something of importance in the point taken by  Senator Leckie.  I preferred this clause in the form in which it left the Senate last week. Perhaps no very great principle is involved, but this complicated amendment means, in effect, that four out of the eighteen members of the Meat Export Control Board will, after the first nominees have ceased to hold office be nominated by the State governments. No provision whatever appears to have been made to ensure that such persons shall have any knowledge of the meat industry. A completely new method is introduced with regard to any individuals who may be appointed under the different sub-clauses of clause  5.  Of the probable eighteen members of the board, some will represent the stock producers of the States, the Northern Territory, and the southern Riverina, the pig producers, the meat-exporting companies of each State, and co-operative organizations which export mutton and lamb ; four will represent publicly-owned abattoirs and freezing works - the portion with which we  aye  dealing now - and one member will represent the Commonwealth Government. This measure does not require .the representative of the Commonwealth Government to have any particular affiliation with the meat trade; in fact, he is the only one of the eighteen who is not required to be associated with the industry. We assume, of course, that the Government will naturally appoint an expert on meat, and it may be claimed that it is reasonable to imagine that the States will act similarly. 
The  committee ought to consider the effect of these amendments, which, if adopted, will extend to a number of persons for whom no qualifications are provided, and who may not be in any way associated with the meat industry, the right to sit on the board. I do not think that that is desirable. I believe that the clause as it left this chamber was more acceptable than the form which is now proposed, as, for instance, it gave the Metropolitan and Export Abattoirs Board in South Australia, which is an independent government instrumentality, the power to nominate a representative. It may be thought desirable to place other nominees on a similar footing; but there is no guarantee that the persons nominated by State governments shall be directly associated with the meat industry. 
The proposed amendment will affect that provision. 
Certainly; but there is no assurance that the successors or substitutes appointed will be associated with the industry. Like  Senator Leckie,  I have some doubt as to the desirableness of States having the power to nominate particularly as the persons appointed may not be associated with the industry. A person nominated by a State government would doubtless be a meat expert ; but is there any reason why it should not be specified in the act? 
If we come down to points of extra refinement such as those mentioned, we shall find that the Australian Meat Board may, technically at any rate, consist of representatives, none of whom has anything whatever to do with the meat trade. Sub-clause 4 of clause 5 reads - 
The members appointed to represent the stock producers of each State shall be appointed upon the nomination of a majority of the representatives of the stock producers on tho Meat Advisory Committee in that State. 
Sub-clause 7 of the same clause reads - 
The members appointed to represent the pig producers of Australia shall be appointed upon the nomination of the Council for the Australian Pig Industry, or such other body as is approved by the Minister. 
The bill provides that persons with power to nominate shall be connected with the particular branch of the industry concerned, but it does not provide that they shall nominate persons who are themselves associated with the industry. They could appoint persons, some of whom may have no connexion whatever with the industry. But it is only common sense to assume that men who are themselves associated with the industry will nominate persons who will represent their views. It is also true that the Governor-General in Council or a Governor in Council may appoint persons, who, they think, deserve something from them but know nothing whatever concerning meat. Such representatives ' may not necessarily be associated with meat. Persons appointed to represent particular branches of the industry may be connected with the industry, but the bill does not provide that they shall be. The Governor-General in Council or a Governor in Council of a State may make unworthy appointments, but such appointments may not be limited to a meat board. In making appointments to the judiciary or to other important posts, it is always assumed that persons capable of undertaking the work they are expected to perform will be appointed. The bill does not expressly provide that the GovernorGeneral in Council or a Governor in Council shall nominate some person connected with the industry, but since no wrong can be imputed to the King or his representative, the assumption is that suitable men will be appointed. Surely a Governor in Council, which means a State Government, can be trusted to appoint some one who will have equal standing in the industry with the other members of the board. It is, of course, extremely improbable that the necessity for re-appointment under the conditions mentioned will arise. The members of the board will hold office during good behaviour, but if any of them die or retire, equally competent men will be appointed. This point was debated in the House of Representatives in an entirely non-party spirit, merely with the desire to make the provision, workable, and I ask the committee to accept the amendments. 
.- 1 cannot accept the statement of the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  and I. indulged in extra refinements, because the Assistant Minister used an even finer sieve. Other members of the board arc to be persons actually engaged in the industry, and it is essential that all the members of the board should have that qualification. That is a fundamental requirement in any scheme of this kind. I voice my protest against the amendment because I see grave danger of the provisions of the bill being used in the way which I have indicated, and I am concerned to .maintain the principle that those responsible for the carrying on of our export primary industries shall be adequately represented on boards appointed to control the overseas trade. The Assistant Minister seems to be under the impression that the present Ministry will always' be in office. I take a somewhat longer view and envisage the time when it will be displaced by a government which, for purposes of its own, may desire the appointment to the board of persons having nothing whatever to do with the industries concerned. I fail to understand why the Assistant Minister should object to the very small and reasonable amendment which I have requested in order to safeguard the interests of those actually engaged in the meat industry. 
[3.53]. - Even if an amendment such as that suggested by  Senator Leckie  were inserted it could only be in the form of a direction, and I suggest that there is already in the bill provision that meets his objections. Paragraph  g  of sub-clause 2 provides for the appointment of- 
Four members to represent publicly-owned abattoirs and freezing works which deal with meat for export from Australia. 
That surely is a direction to a State government and also to the Federal Government that the persons to be appointed under sub-clause 10 as it will be amended shall, in fact, be such persons. 
That is so. Sub-clause 3 provides that members of the board shall be appointed by the Governor-General "in accordance with the provisions of this section ". I cannot conceive any form of amendment which would give a more definite direction concerning appointments to the board under sub-clause 10. We should also bear in mind that we cannot strip a State government of its prerogative. All that we can do in our legislation is to give a direction concerning the kind of men who, in our opinion, should be appointed. If a State government made an appointment not in conformity with the act, it would be flouting the law. I feel sure that if  Senator Leckie  studies more closely the provisions to which I have directed his attention he will find that what he is contending for is already in the bill. 
 I am afraid that the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  did not quite follow my argument. T do not think I said that a State government would appoint unworthy persons. My sole concern is to see that the provisions of the bill are so drafted as to ensure the appointment to the board of the proper persons. I also remind the Minister that honorable senators are quite entitled to express their opinion upon this important subject. In my opinion the form in which this clause was passed by the Senate was to be preferable to the amended clause now under consideration. I understand that it was not, at first, a Government amendment; that it was suggested by a private member of the House of Representatives and, after discussion, was accepted by the Ministry. 
The Leader of the Senate may be right. I have not had time to study, in sufficient detail, the various drafts of the clause to say what alterations have been made in the verbiage; but, as regards the appointment of a successor to any one of the four members representing  publicly-owned abattoirs and freezing works, my objection is that this power is being taken away from the persons to whom it was given originally, and is being given to a State government. I put it to honorable senators that while the pig producers may appoint, as their representative, some one who is interested in homing pigeons, they are much more likely to appoint some one with a practical knowledge of the pigraising industry. Under the amendment which we are now considering the State Government has the right to nominate the successor of a member who may be removed from the board. I believe that it will nominate a suitable person but there should be no objection to a slight alteration of the verbiage to make it quite clear that the four persons appointed to the Board as representatives of publicly-owned abattoirs and freezing works shall, in fact, be persons connected with the meat industry. 
I do not think so, because, as Senate Brennan has. pointed out, it is not stipulated that any one of those appointees must be definitely a producer of beef, mutton, lamb or pigs. There is, however, an internal safeguard with regard to other appointees of the board. Under paragraph  g  a State government may, and in accordance with the act, appoint a capable man who is not himself directly interested in the meat industry. An interesting situation might arise if one of the four representatives had been appointed by a State government for hostile purposes. I do not wish to overemphasize this possibility but I have heard nothing in the discussion this afternoon to cause me to alter my opinion that the form in which the Senate passed the bill was better than the amended form of which we are now asked to approve. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
As this is merely a machinery measure to provide for a more effective conduct of administrative affairs in New Guinea I have no desire to prolong the debate or delay its passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
Dealing with the proposed new sub-section 1a, 

 Senator Dein raised objections to the words " as to, or as to be likely to", being under the impression, apparently, that they placed the onus of proof on the person charged. These words do not alter the onus of proof in any way. A person charged under this sub-section has to be tried before a jury, which would take its directions as to the law from the presiding judge, who would put the matter before them somewhat in this way - "In your opinion is this book, periodical, pamphlet, poster or newspaper of such a nature as to be likely to seduce any person serving in the King's forces from his duty and allegiance? If you are satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the publication is of such a nature, you should find the accused guilty; if you are not so satisfied, you will acquit him." Thus, the onus of proof will not .be altered by anything appearing in this proposed new sub-section. 
I propose to refresh the minds of honorable senators concerning the objections of the Opposition to the words " or as to be likely to ". We have to consider the use that will probably be made of this law and the circumstances likely to be prevailing at the times when it is put in operation. They will not be times when every one in the community is calm and when a considered judgment is likely to be given by judicial authorities If these  particular  words are omitted, the position will be different. Under such circumstances, the tribunal charged with considering the matter will merely have to decide whether any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper contains matter of such a nature as to do certain things. That will be a fairly definite issue upon which a tribunal can be expected to give a reasoned judgment. Now, it appears to me, in order to be quite certain of  securing  a conviction the Government proposes, in effect, to direct the judge to say to the jury, " You have not finally to decide whether such a publication is of a nature calculated to do certain things, but, if, in your opinion, such a publication might possibly lead to these things being done, you will find the defendant guilty". This is a sort of dragnet arrangement. 
That would apply to the first part of the new subsection under which a jury would have to be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that the matter published was of a nature to do these things. Now, however, in order to make quite sure that the accused shall have less opportunity to escape, the jury is told that if it is of the opinion that such a matter, even by a stretch of the imagination, is likely to have certain effects, it should find the accused guilty. The Opposition had hoped that the Minister would see his way clear to withdraw these words. 
My first objection to this clause is the omission of the word " knowingly " which appears in the principal act. The law seems to have been quite adequate to meet all requirements from the establishment of the Commonwealth nearly 150 years ago until a newspaper,  Truth,  published a sensational article which was alleged to contain seditious matter. In this case, a prosecution was launched, but did not succeed. Everybody knows that editors, publishers and proprietors, have quite enough to do in conducting a newspaper without being confronted with further traps of tin's character. This is not a party matter, but concerns all printers and publishers. A few years ago the editor of the Brisbane  Telegraph  was charged with having published seditious matter because he had published a letter sent to him by a correspondent. Eventually he was- acquitted of the charge. Whether or not a statement published in a newspaper is seditious depends largely on the point of view of the person who reads it; what might appear to one person to be seditious might be considered harmless by another. Editors and other persons associated with newspapers have enough to do without having to weigh the possibility of something which they publish being construed to be seditious. I am astonished that the press of Australia has not been more alive to the danger confronting it. If the word " knowingly " were omitted from the act, every publisher would need to have a team of barristers at his elbow to advise him; and even then he would not be certain whether or not be was publishing seditious matter, because in all probability the barristers would disagree. Even if he accepted the views of the majority, he might find that the court held a different view. I have had some experience of newspapers, and I have seen the members of the staff of a newspaper in a state of great nervous tension because of the possibility of a charge of libel being laid against them. Reputable Australiannewspapers are not likely to publish seditious or libellous matter; the possibilities of an expensive court case are too serious to be disregarded. At the moment the press of Australia is silent regarding . the Government's intention; but should one or two editors or publishers have to face court proceedings, the press will probably seek an alteration of the law. I agree with the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition regarding the words " or as to be likely to ". I move - 
That after the word " who ", proposed new sub-section (1a.), the word "knowingly" be inserted. 
I cannot accept the amendment, because the committee has already dealt with an amendment to a later portion of the proposed new sub-section. The honorable senator may move later for the recommital of the bill. 
I cannot accept an amendment which would take the committee back beyond other portions which have already been dealt with. 
[4.25]. - In order to show the danger of retaining the word "knowingly ",I propose to quote from the official records of a case which was dealt with by the Supreme Court of Victoria in  The King  v.  William Arthur Payne - 
John Greig Latham, the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth of Australia, informs the court and charges that on or about the fifth day of November, . 1932, at Melbourne, in the Central Bailiwick of the State of Victoria, William Arthur Payne, of 402-406 
Latrobe-street, Melbourne, in the said State, printer and publisher, did contrary to the Crimes Act1914-1932 of the Commonwealth of Australia, by means of an article headed " Navy Issues Strike Ultimatum ", published by the said William Arthur Payne in the  Truth  newspaper at Melbourne, aforesaid, knowingly attempt to incite certain persons serving in the King's Forces, to wit, the lower deck ratings of H.M.A.S.  Canberra,  H.M.A.6.  Australia,  H.M.A.S.  Albatross,  H.M.A.S.  Tattoo,  and other ships of the Royal Australian Navy, to commit an act of mutiny Dated the ninth day of November, 1932. 
G. Latham, 
Attorney-General of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
This prosecution commenced on Wednesday, 22nd November, 1932, at the Supreme Court, Melbourne, before  His  Honour  Mr. Justice  Lowe and jury.  Mr. L.  V. Cussen and  Mr. W.  O'Bryan appeared for the . prosecution,  Mr. Gorman,  K.C., and  Mr. A.  L. Read appeared for the accused. 
The general plea was "Not guilty", but the real defence was - 
that Payne had nothing whatever to do with the editorial department, of  Truth  newspaper; 
that he had not written the article complained of; 
that he did not know about the article until it was printed and published; . and 
that althoughhe saw the paper when it came off the printing presses he merely glanced at it to see that the printing was up to technical standard, but that he did not read one word beyond the heading. 

 Mr. Gorman (for the defence) further Submitted - 
that the article did not amount to an incitement to mutiny, and 
that if the article were in fact seditious the accused, although he printed and published the article in a technical sense, could not bo held to have knowingly attempted to incite the navy to mutiny inasmuch as he did not write the article nor did he even read it. [ shall now read a few extracts from the address to the jury by  Mr. Gorman,  K.C., counsel for the accused -  . . But, gentlemen, in a criminal court, one must descend to some particulars and there must be a jumping-off point. In order to achieve that, let me "indicate to you precisely what is it with which the accused publisher is charged. The charge is that he is a personwho, in the words of the section "knowingly" (that is the first important adverb) "knowingly attempted to incitea person serving in the King's Farces to commit an act of mutiny", a very grave crime, originally punishable, of course,with death; but we have come down from that and we can now range over a considerable field from imprisonment for life downwards. Let us first get to the essence of this grave offence "that the accused person knowingly did what is represented" - "knowingly attempted to incite a person serving in the King's Forces to commit an act of mutiny "... 
You should say to yourselves, "What are we trying this man for 7" The answer is that lie" "knowingly", not inadvertently, "attempted to incite Australian sailors to mutiny "... 
You will say to yourself, " What has Payne to do with it? Did Payne write it?" The answer is "No." Did he cause it to be written ? The answer is " No." . . . 
An  ex officio  information is lodged against this printing gentleman, and he comes along to the court, lets himself into the dock, closes the door on himself, and you, gentlemen of the jury, are commissioned to try whether he attempted, to try whether he "knowingly" attempted to incite the Australian Navy to mutiny. . . . 
The article is written and the fleet arrives here, and my learned friend  Mr. Cussen  says it was contemporaneous with the arrival of the fleet. When would you expect it to be? You do not write an account of the Melbourne Cup on the first Tuesday in June. You do not write an account of Christmas Day happenings at Easter. Of course the article was contemporaneous with the arrival of the Navy. . . . 
But you, gentlemen, will, I suggest, subject to any direction the learned judge gave you, look at this article in a wide and generous spirit. I emphasize the word generous, because it is one which has been -more than any other utilized by judges in dealing with matters of this character. Looking at it in a generous spirit, you have to say: "What is the wording of this charge - that this accused knowingly attempted to incite the Australian Navy to mutiny. . . . 
I draw special attention to the following extract from  Mr. Gorman's  address : - 
If this article wore the most seditious ever published, if every line of it were an inducement to our Navy to rise and disregard its oath of allegiance, if its character was such that no counsel could easily get up and deny to you that it was full of all that was reprehensible and unpatriotic, even though that were so and even though it were not the innocuous thing which this article is, it would still he our strongest submission to you that this man could not be saddled with the responsibility. Some one wrote this article; some one censored it; some one edited it: but the evidence as to what happened is all one way, that this man has never written a newspaper article in his life. Ho printed and published in the technical sense, but that is not the charge, not that he printed it, not that he published it, not that he is news printer or publisher, but that he personally, not his company, knowingly attempted to incite the Navy to mutiny. 
In his summing-up,  Mr. Justice  Lowe, after dealing with the elements of the case, said - 
. I cannot say any more with regard to those clements involved in the crime which  I  have discussed while reading the article through to you. I am now going to make this comment to you: Suppose you came to the conclusion that the article did incite to mutiny; that is only one portion of the consideration ulrich you will have to give before you can como to a conclusion whether the crime is established or not. You would then have to go on and to consider the other elements which I have referred to. . . 
Now let me take the other assumption, that you think the article properly construed is an incitement to mutiny. That does not necessarily mean that the accused is guilty of this crime charged against him, because you see the indictment says that the incitement was of certain persons serving in the King's Forces, to wit, the lower ratings of those vessels. 
I propose then to pass on to what is a much more important element of the facts in this case, that is, " Did the accused knowingly attempt to bring about the result I have been discussing, that is, inciting the lower ratings to commit an act of mutiny?" 
His Honour then proceeded to quote a portion of Payne's evidence. The effect of this evidence is that, though Payne's duties consisted of general office management in connexion with the .paper, such as the control of agents' supplies, the control of accounts, supervision of the advertising department, supervision of advertising contracts, and the general administration of the office, he had nothing whatsoever to do with the editorial department of any paper. He has never written an article for' publication in  Truth  in his life, and he has never known anything of any article published in  Truth  prior to publication. He did not know one word about the article in question until  after  the paper was printed and published. . . . 
But if you thought that Simpson's account was correct, and he did know and he did use the words, "I have never liked it," then the fact of the statements being untrue and of  absence  of any inquiry to find out the truth would be material matter for you to consider on this charge of knowingly attempting to incite to mutiny. 
Simpson was the detective who served the summons, and to whom the publisher made certain comments. The whole essence of the defence in this case turned upon the word " knowingly ". There was never at any time a serious attempt to suggest that the article could not have the effect of inciting to mutiny, and the defence was mainly directed to the point as to whether the accused "knowingly" attempted. His Honour at one stage invited the jury to contemplate the possibility of this incitement to mutiny. He remarked that if the jury came to the conclusion that the article was seditious it would still have to consider the other elements contained in the charge. His Honour gave no direction to the jury as to whether the article was seditious or not, and in consequence it is still open to anybody to claim that the writer - of the article deliberately intended such  incitement  The effect of the judgment was merely to exonerate Payne of the charge of having knowingly incited to mutiny, and the article itself was not directly relevant. Had the jury come to the conclusion that Payne was the person responsible for the article in that it was published with his knowledge and consent, and with a full realization of its possible consequences, the jury would then have had to come to a conclusion as to the seditious properties of the article; but that did not occur. It is, therefore, open to anybody to claim that the article was seditious. 
For an offence against this law, some person must be held responsible; and whom should it be? The person who writes an article or the publisher of it? Obviously, it must be the publisher; he is the only person who can be held responsible. Under the existing law, the publisher has only to enter the witness-box and say, " I know nothing about the contents of the article ; I merely printed and published it ", and he cannot be convicted. That is the reason for the omission of the word "knowingly". Largely as the result of the  experience  in this case, the Government has advisedly omitted the word "knowingly" from the proposed new subsection 1a.. 
Section 25, which clause 6 amends, refers to any person who knowingly attempts to seduce a person in the King's Forces. But in the proposed new subsection dealing with the publication of seditious matter, the word "knowingly" does not appear.  Senator Pearce  has maintained that this omission is necessary. I fail to understand why the word should be left out in one instance and nor. in another. If a person publishes a book and is haled before the court, he knows perfectly well whether he has published that book or not. There remains for decision by the court the question of whether the article is likely to seduce any person serving in the King's Forces from his allegiance.  Senator Pearce  said that, in the  Truth  case, the judge gave no direction to the jury in regard to inciting to mutiny; and that the whole of the defence rested on the word " knowingly ". According to the issue of  Truth  of the 10th November, the judge said - 
The prosecution had to prove whether the article read in a fair-minded manner,, was an incitement to mutiny, or, a report of news and a warning to the naval authorities. 

 Senator Pearce quoted from a departmental report, which stated that the judge gave no direction whatever to the jury on the question of inciting to mutiny. According to  Truth,  the judge asked the jury to decide whether the article, if read in a fair-minded manner, would be likely to incite a person serving in the King's Forces to mutiny. The judge proceeded - 
Tim l the incitement to mutiny, if any, was directed to and aimed at lower ratings of the vessels &gt;n Melbourne. 
If so, did the accused, the publisher, do all this knowingly. 
Admittedly, a rational and intelligent counsel for the defence would make use of these provisions, and he could not be blamed for doing so. If an article, of which the publisher knows nothing, is published above his name, is it just that he should be prosecuted, and because it is proved that the matter might have incited to mutiny, that he should be sent to gaol without the option of a fine, as is desired by  Senator Allan  MacDonald? 
In my opinion, no reason exists for the omission of the word " knowingly ". A publisher ought to be safeguarded, to the extent that the prosecution should be required to prove that he knowingly published a seditious article. 
 Truth  published, an article in good faith. Admittedly, the matter was sensational, but then  Truth  is a sensational newspaper, and naturally it seized on this subject, but it did not deliberately attempt to incite to mutiny. SenatorPearce said that special steps had been taken to circulate the publication to the lower ratings on the warships. But  Truth  declared - 
No special steps were taken to circulate the publication to the men on the ships. 
 Senator Pearce  said that special steps had been taken to circulate copies among the ratings.  Truth  denies that, and the judge particularly pointed out to the jury - 
There is no evidence before you that a single copy of  Truth  ever came to a single person of the lower ratings, and that is not the way the Crown puts the case to you. 
This matter was published to sell the newspaper, and because it made good reading, and  Senator Pearce  is upset because a conviction was not obtained by the Government. According to the tenor of the honorable senator's speech, the judge should have punished Payne for having published the article. The statement made by the editor bears out the contention of the Labour party that it is necessary at times to give full publicity to what is happening in the army and the navy, so that any causes of discontent may be removed, and not for the purpose of inciting to mutiny. The Government, however, desires to amend the act to enable the authorities to prosecute a person and obtain his conviction and imprisonment, no matter what unselfish and lofty motives may actuate him in his efforts to terminate disaffection. The Government has deliberately set out to catch a certain individual who may be possessed of the best of intentions. 
According to the Minister, the Government has a definite object in leaving out the word "knowingly", so that in any case against a newspaper in future the publisher may be enmeshed in the coils of the law and imprisoned. 
 Senator Pearce  hasdescribed the publication of such matter as a crime. In the case under consideration the jury after deliberating for fifteen minutes returned a verdict of not guilty. It took into consideration whether this article was an incitement to mutiny. 
If  Truth  has correctly reported the case, the judge in his direction to the jury said. " Was the article an incitement to mutiny or a fair report of news, and a warning to the naval authorities ? " 
A publisher may not know that he has published an article. 
A publisher may be convicted because he cannot deny that he was the publisher of an article. 
Then the wrong person must have been charged, and it was only right that he should be acquitted. 
The name' of the publisher of a newspaper appears in the imprint. A person who deliberately publishes an article inciting to mutiny must stand his trial, and accept the consequences, but honorable senators opposite contend that a publisher of a newspaper who knows nothing whatever concerning the contents of an article he publishes shall be treated as a criminal. In the opinion of  Senator Allan  MacDonald, such a person should be placed in prison without having the option of a fine. 
The honorable senator contends that a publisher should be imprisoned for publishing an article concerning which, he knows nothing. 

 Senator DEIN (New South Wales) [4.53]. - I entirely agree with the omission of the word "knowingly", because if it were inserted it could be used as a cloak behind which a cunning and unscrupulous person might hide. In criminal libel cases the court has to. determine whether an article is libellous, and if it is the publisher is responsible. In this instance a publisher, should satisfy himself before a publication sees the light of day that no article which he publishes incites to mutiny. If it does he is responsible. When, the insertion of the- words " or as to be likely to " was discussed several weeks ago I was- not clear as. to their effect upon an accused person. The proposed new. subsection provides that any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, hand-bill, poster, or. newspaper containing any matter of such a nature as to, or as to be likely to,- result- in the seducing of'' any. person serving in the King's forces- from his duty shall be guilty, of anindictable offence. The words "or as to be likely to" have apparently been. used. instead of the word " attempts ". The court must determine whether any publication, has. resulted in the seduction or is likely to result in. the seduction of any person.. If there has been a deliberate attempt toincite to sedition the- person responsible should be punished and the words to which the Opposition objects are necessary in order to secure a conviction.. On a previous occasion the question was raised of whether, under, theamended provision, an accused person would' be likely to receive the benefit of the doubt, but I believe that in such cases the phrase proposed to be used will not prejudice the rights of an accused person. 
I am intensely- intrigued with the ease with which  Senator Dein  salves his conscience by. saying that he is satisfied that the words, "or as; to.'be likely to " have the same effectas the word "attempts". The conversion of the honorable senator hastaken some time but apparently it has been fairly easy. Will the Assistant Minister (SenatorBrennam) define the: word " publisher " Having had some experience in newspaper work I know that a publisher of a newspaper is not expected to read what he publishes. A publisher of a- newspaper is merely an employee whose name appears in. the imprint as the publisher and he is the person who can- be tackled. In- the case mentioned by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  the wrong man was- tackled. To omit the word " knowingly " is to make an absoluteassault on the liberties of the press, because it means that some member of a newspaper staff will, have to read every word that appears in certain articles. 
They are not allread. It appears to be the objectiveof the - Government to secure the conviction of some one rather than to avoid unjust convictions.. If the word "knowingly" is- omitted and the words " or as to be likely to " are inserted it will be easy to- obtain convictions.Any one who has the- slightest regard for liberty, must consider this measure an atrocity.  Senator J:  V. MacDonald said that he was surprised that the newspaperproprietors had not expressed their strongopposition ; tothe proposed amendments, but I- know that a number have said that this measure is an attack upon the liberty of the press- and the rights of the people.- The Leader of the Senateattempts to make it appear that casehardened members- of the Opposition, in this chamber are associated with persons who incite members -of the defence forces to mutiny-. The honorable senator almost makes- us- feel that weare criminals becausewe- believe in- freedom, ofspeech and the liberty of the- press. The members of the Opposition will useall the powers they possessto have the word " knowingly " ' re-inserted andthewords "or as to be likely to" omitted. Ministersand those supporting, them, should know that the members of the- Opposition are sincere, when they, say that- they have no sympathy whatever with those- who incite to mutiny, but we believe  that  the people should have the right to express themselves freely. During periods of excitement  and  even during an election campaign it may be said that the language of some candidates  is  likely to result in the overthrow of the Government. 
It is not  in  this clause but it is in another portion of the bill. If all safeguards, and there are  Only  a few,- are removed, any candidate who has the courage to express his  opinion  may be subject to the provisions of this bill. I move - 
That the words " or as to be likely  to ",  proposed  new  sub-section 1a, be left out. 
.- I have been vainly endeavouring to follow the reasoning of  Senator Collings.  The honorable senator has complained of the deletion of the  Word  "knowingly", and has declared his intention to move heaven and earth to have it reinstated. It is apparent that tho honorable senator has not read the bill, or he would not have made that statement. The word "knowingly " is udt to be found in it. 
But we are dealing with the bill, and I contend that it is impossible to reinstate words which do not appear in the bill. 
I am well aware that the word "knowingly" appears in section  25,  which provides that any person who " knowingly " attempts to seduce any person serving in the King's Forces from his duty and allegiance shall be guilty of an indictable offence. This bill does not interfere with that provision. All that it does is to enact, in proposed new section  1a,  that any person who " publishes " any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper containing any matter of such a nature as to, or as to be likely to, seduce any person serving in the King's Forces from his duty and allegiance, or incite any such person to commit an act of mutiny or to make or endeavour to make a mutinous assembly, shall be guilty of an indictable offence. Clearly the intention of the Leader of the Opposition is to embarrass the Ministry, because, as I have explained, this amending bill does not delete the word "knowingly " from section  25.  All the necessary information about the effect of the amendments, is available to honorable senators in the memorandum issued by the Government for their guidance.  Senator Collings  should study the document, so as to be able to discuss the bill intelligently, and not attempt to mislead the public by suggesting that this bill will take away the rights of the people. I approve entirely of the Government's objective, namely, to make the act more workable. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has exexplained hew' difficult it has been to give effect to the intention of the Parliament when it passed the Crimes Act, because of the omission of certain provisions. If  Senator Collings  were as well informed as I am concerning the difficulties of administering the act, I feel sure that his attitude would not be so hostile. But I am well aware that, in common with his Labour colleagues in this chamber, his desire is to mislead the people, as they have been misled during the last few weeks, about the effect of these proposed amendments of the Crimes Act. I have heard from public platforms statements in every respect similar to those made by the honorable senator this afternoon, that the bill will destroy the freedom of the people. There is no justification whatever for such statements. Nevertheless, they are made deliberately, not only in this chamber, but outside of it. No person occupying the position of Leader of the Opposition should say anything that is calculated to mislead the people with regard to legislation.  His  object ought to be to enlighten the public. He has alleged that this bill will prevent any person from saving anything in opposition to this Government. There is no truth in such a statement. 
.- I agree with  Senator Payne  that it is futile to talk about the re-instatement in the bill of a word which does not appear in any of its provisions. As the honorable senator has pointed out, the word "knowingly" is to be found in sub-section 1 of section 25 which states that any person who " knowingly " attempts to seduce any person serving in the King's forces from his duty and allegiance, shall be guilty of an indictable offence. As the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has pointed out, some time ago an article appeared in a Melbourne paper and proceedings were taken against the publisher under section 25. The law requires that the indictment shall set out exactly what the charge is. For the information of  Senator Brown,  I may add that when a judge charges a jury, it is his duty to point out what is the charge contained in the indictment. In the case in question the indictment alleged an offence under paragraphs  a  and  b  of the sub-section to which  I  have referred, dealing with incitement to commit an act of mutiny or traitorous or mutinous acts. Learned counsel for the defence, as the Leader of the Senate has explained, directed the whole battery of his eloquence to the word " knowingly ". ' It was not in dispute that the publication of the article was calculated to incite persons serving in the King's forces to commit acts of mutiny. The defence was: "We did not ' knowingly ' do any of these things. The man charged is the publisher, who looks after the office work. He never wrote an article in his life ". That was the position under the law when the prosecution was launched and, as the Leader of the Senate pointed out, this defence would be open to any .person who was charged under section 25. The writer of an article, for instance, might deny authorship, and if the article were typewritten, it would be difficult to establish the proof. 
Yes, and he might quite easily satisfy an inquiring police officer that he was away. Because of the difficulties of proof under the law as it stood, it was decided to extend the provisions of section 25 by inserting a new section 1a which enacts that any person who publishes any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper containing any matter of such a natureas to or as to be likely to seduce any person serving in the King's forces from his duty and allegiance, shall bo guilty of an indictable offence. I admit that in this proposed new sub-section, which extends the provisions of sub-section l, the word "knowingly" has been omitted. Although, in the prosecution to which I have alluded, it was not alleged that any representative of  Truth  newspaper disseminated the article, there were persons who were quite willing to take advantage of the opportunity, and did circulate a pamphlet among the lower ratings on naval vessels which were in port at that time. Under the act as amended by this bill, it will not be a good defence for any publisher who is charged under section 25 to plead ignorance of the contents of any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, poster or newspaper. 
It is not an uncommon practice. The Leader of the Opposition has said that the Opposition has stated its case on this point. It has stated and reiterated it a number of times, and honorable senators by now know thoroughly what the Opposition's case is. Without the slightest desire to burke the very fullest discussion of this clause, I remind honorable senators that the Leader of the Opposition, in the early stages of the consideration of this bill, said that the Opposition would use all the forms of the Senate to block it. If the Opposition persists in such an attitude we may have to consider the application of remedies for it. 
The Government does not object to the expression of considered opinions, but it objects to  mere talking, which does not throw any new light upon the measure, for the sole purpose of impeding its passage. As this clause has been fully discussed, I suggest that it should now be allowed to go to a division. 
No. 
The Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  has said that the Government is anxious to give the Opposition the fullest opportunity to discuss the bill. We are not lawyers, and when we ask questions concerning the legal meaning of certain words, we should be given civil answers. I understand that the word " publishing " covers not only printing, but also distributing. 
The Assistant Minister has admitted that the distributors of the edition of  Truth,  in which the allegedly seditious article appeared, could be regarded as publishers. This proposed new sub-section deals with the man who is usually recognized as the publisher of a newspaper - the man whose name is required by law to appear in the imprint. He does not know that an article, which is likely to incite to mutiny, is printed in his paper; but, as a fact, the article is published. Then, the paper containing such an article may be distributed among the lower naval ratings. If, in  Truth's  case, such a publication was distributed among naval ratings with the object of deliberately inciting them to mutiny, it was the duty of the Government to have charged, not the publisher of  Truth,  but the men who distributed the paper, and then to have proved that these men knowingly distributed that paper among the ratings with the object of inciting them to mutiny. In fairness to  Truth,  let us examine what that journal said about the matter when this case came before the court in November, 1932 - 
Mr.Justice Lowe, in a masterly summingup, told the jury to read the article as a whole in a fair-minded manner, not just sentences picked out for a purpose. He pointed out that the Crown had failed to prove thai a single copy had got to a single person of the lower ratings. How could persons be incited by an article they had never read? 
This paper never got into the hands of naval ratings. 
The position, in that case, as the Opposition sees it, was that  Truth  - as it stated itself - was anxious to eliminate certain trouble in the navy, and gave good advice to the authorities; what it published was not incitement to the lower ratings to mutiny, but incitement to the naval authorities to take steps to allay discontent in the navy with regard to certain pay and allowances. The authorities, taking the advice, removed the cause of the trouble, and then charged  Truth  with sedition. The publisher of the paper, who knew nothing about the article, was arraigned before the court and charged with having incited to mutiny. Any one who deliberately sets out to incite the troops of this country to mutiny should be arraigned before the court, and tried by his peers but it is grossly unfair that a man, because his name appears as the publisher in the imprint, should be prosecuted for the publication of matter that " is likely to seduce any person serving in the King's Forces from his duty and allegiance". Because the proposed new sub-section will permit of a grave injustice being done to many publishers in this country we object to it. We are told by the Assistant Minister that such men will be tried by a jury and judge and will have a fair trial. However we know that often a man when brought into court has his character maligned to such an extent that even when he is found not guilty many people believe that there must have been something in the charge or the Government would not have instituted proceedings. We want to prevent the arraignment of any innocent man; we do not want the Government to safeguard any man who sets out knowingly to seduce or to incite to mutiny any member of the King's Forces. The word " knowingly " which appears in the Principal Act has been deliberately omitted from this proposed new sub-section, because the Government desires to broaden the power of the authorities so that they will be able to drag into their net men who are innocent of any action that will incite to mutiny, or be likely to incite to mutiny. The inference to be drawn from the speech of  Senator Pearce  is that a mistake was made in inserting the word " knowingly " in the Principal Act, and that in  Truth's  case it should have been possible to convict the publisher and fine him heavily, as would have happened had the law been what is now proposed. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) put - 
That the question be now put. 
The original act provides that the Attorney-General may require a suspected person to answer questions, furnish information, and allow the inspection of documents. The bill proposes to transfer that authority from the Attorney-General to a police, stipendiary or special magistrate. I give notice of my intention to move that paragraph  d  of sub-section 2 of proposed new section 30ab be left out and that the following new sub-section be inserted in its stead - " 3. Any person who gives any information required in pursuance of this section which is false in any particular shall be guilty of an offence." Paragraph  d  is governed by the introductory words " Any person who without just, cause (proof whereby shall lie upon him)". Under my proposal a person who is charged with having given false information will not be subject to the previsions of sub-section 2 in regard to the onus of proof. 
The words "or has knowledge or information relating to such an association " are far too drastic in that they leave the way open to abuses. At times of excitement - and only at such times will this provision be put into operation - a person might suggest to a magistrate that another person against whom he has a grudge has information relating to an unlawful association, whereupon the magistrate could call upon that person to answer questions, furnish information or produce documents for inspection. Even if it does not take us back to the days of the Inquisition, such a provision certainly means the subjection of suspected persons to "third degree" methods which hitherto have not been introduced into Australia. I therefore move - 
That the words " or has knowledge or information relating to such an association ", sub-section 1, proposed new section 30ab, be left out. 
I support the amendment because the inclusion of the words referred to by the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  might easily lead to the introduction of star chamber methods. We do not wish the way to be left open for the employment of either the old time French  lettre  de cachet  or the modern American " third degree " practice. In the United States of America innocent persons are sometimes subjected to atrocious treatment in order that information may be wrung from them. A man may be for 30 or 40 hours subjected to almost continuous questioning, or it may be that policemen merely walk through the room without questioning him at all. At- first sight the latter method may not appear to be a form of torture, but the strain becomes more and more intense as the hours pass. Whilst the Labour party does not desire to obstruct the law, it wishes to safeguard hh innocent, person against methods which may be adopted by those who have a vested interest in procuring a conviction. The police force, has in one sense, a vested interest in procuring convictions. Men, Australian-born, but not having the Australian spirit, may go to any lengths to obtain a conviction in order to gain promotion in the police force. Why is it necessary to insert the words " without just cause"? What is meant by "just cause " ? A person may have a cause, and may give his interrogators certain reasons for being unable to give acceptable answers, but the proposed new subsection places upon him the onus of proving the justice of his cause. The police may take the view that the cause is not just, although the unfortunate individual lias given an explanation which, in his opinion, is perfectly correct and proper. But if he refuses or fails to answer questions put to him, to furnish information, or to give his approval in writing to the police to obtain documents in his possession, he will be guilty of an offence and be subject to imprisonment for six months or to a fine of £100. The new clause begins with the statement that if a police stipendary or special magistrate is satisfied by information laid before him by any person duly authorized . . . Will the Minister explain the significance of the words " any person " ? Can the Attorney-General empower any person under this clause, regardless of whom he may be, to collect information upon the receipt of which another person may be taken into custody? Such a person may be a "pimp or informer, or a low-down scoundrel. A police force has been established to do this class of work, but apparently any person whatsoever may now be enlisted to obtain information against a citizen in return for a few pieces of silver. 
The AttorneyGeneral may authorize a superintendent of police, who in turn may in a roundabout way use persons other than the police. The police may direct a series of questions, either orally or in writing, to a suspect, and he must answer them. The Labour party considers that the proposed powers will make it possible to bring within the scope of the measure individuals associated, for example, with the trade union movement. They may be quite respectable citizens of the realm, but in time of industrial trouble they may experience the harshness of this law. 
But they may be charged with being members of an unlawful association. 
Presumably the parasites will be declared unlawful associations. That is a silly and puerile statement. The honorable senator pretends that the parasites will be the only class affected. The Labour party is based on the trade-union movement, and I am in close touch with many industrial organizations in this country. I admit that a few persons associated with industrial, social, and political organizations, may be termed parasites, but, on the other hand, there are many earnest men who have spent a life-time to their own detriment in unselfish efforts to ameliorate the conditions of those whom they represent. They see a danger that in a time of industrial strife, when they are battling to obtain better conditions, this legislation may be used against then] To pretend that the measure will be confined to the parasites is sheer " bunk ". The Australian Council of Trade Unions met in Melbourne to-day; the delegates to that conference represent thousands of persons and they are performing really useful work in this community. They have a right to discuss the Crimes Bill, and they have decided that it is a dangerous measure, which can be used to imprison men who are working on behalf of the industrial classes. The Minister maintains that safeguards have been provided. What are they? 
My opposition is not actuated by personal fear. Justice and right and the administration of the law constitutionally placed on the statutebook, are the considerations that are involved. The freedom of the individual should not be prejudiced in any way. Such drastic amendments to the Crimes Act, in order to safeguard Australia, are unnecessary. The trade-union movement of Australia is law-abiding and it is composed of citizens who are held in high esteem. Respectable and hardworking persons in the movement fear this measure, and honorable senators should pay heed to them and to their representatives, who are endeavouring to show where the dangers lie. I trust that the Minister will explain the need for this legislation. 
Minister for External Affairs) [6.0]. - Honorable senators who support the Government are just as anxious and determined as is  Senator Brown  to protect the bona fide trade unions of this country. This bill will help to shield them from a menace against which the trades unions themselves have had to take action - the Communists, who are endeavouring to whiteant the trade union movement in Australia. I emphasize that the trades unions themselves and. some trades councils have been compelled, for their own protection, to take drastic action against Communist organizations.  Senator Brown  should be aware of that. Quite recently the Melbourne Trades Hall Council declared that the Council Against War, an organization promoted by the Communist party in Melbourne, has anti-trade union objectives, and even outlawed certain of its own officials because of their membership of that body. 
The honorable senator pretended to believe that this legislation is directed against trade unions. Far from being so, it is directed against the enemies of trade unions.  Senator Brown  knows full well that many unions have been obliged to expel some of their officials because they recognized them as being agents of communism, seeking to white ant the trade union movement. The legitimate trade unions do not lend themselves to propaganda for the overthrow of government by force or violence, which is the object of the Communists. If the Government can stamp out this menace, no organizations should be more grateful to the Government than the trade unions. The Communist bodies are like the chameleon in that they change their colours. Whenever one is declared an unlawful body it suddenly disappears, only to bob up again under another name. Nevertheless, the funds, books and assets are all by some mysterious method transferred from one to the other. Every country which has taken action against the Communist organizations has experienced the difficulty of tracing them from one name to another. The clause under discussion will overcome this obstacle. The officials of the organization, when it goes underground, know full well what becomes of the books and assets, and this proposed new sub-section is' to enable the law to call upon them to answer certain questions. Both  Senator Collings  and  Senator Brown  referred at length to the first part of the sub-section, but did not read the nature of the questions to be directed to such persons. Paragraph  el.  for example, deals with - any money, property or funds belonging to or held by or on behalf of an unlawful association, or as to which there is reasonable cause to believe that they belong to or are held by or on behalf of an unlawful association. 
No inquisitorial prying into a person's private property or funds is contemplated. The subject of the examination will be the money and documents of the organization which has been declared unlawful and has gone underground. This is for the protection of society and of bona fide trade union organizations against the white-anting activities of Communists. Paragraph e reads - 
Any payments made directly or indirectly by, to, or on behalf of, any unlawful association, or as to which there is reasonable cause to believe they are to be made. 
A person may be asked whether any money has been received from Russia, and, if so, what became of it. There have been instances in which movements aimed at the overthrow of society and the white-anting of trade unionism have been financed by money from the head of the Communist organization in Russia. Paragraph / reads - 
Any transaction to which an unlawful association is or is reasonably believed to be a party. 
If the person interrogated has never been associated with an unlawful organization what will he have to fear if called upon by a person authorized by the AttorneyGeneral to answer these questions? All he need say is that he is not, and has never been, a member of an unlawful association. If he has never handled the money or the property of an unlawful association what disability will he be under? He should welcome the opportunity to say that he has never had any association with such organizations. If honorable senators opposite wish to protect bona fide trade unions they should support this clause. Trade unionists have had to protect themselves against the Communists and this provision will assist them. If honorable senators opposite wish, to shield those who are white-anting the trade union organizations in Australia by trying to divert them from their perfectly legitimate work of improving the lot of the workers, and to convert them into revolutionary organizations they will oppose this clause. This provision is aimed at that class of individual, and not at the bona fide- trade unionists. 
.- If the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and some of those who are supporting him will make provocative speeches they must expect provocative replies from honorable senators in Opposition unless they protect themselves behind the cowardly gag. No one was more interested than I was to hear th« Leader of the Senate become the protagonist of trade unionism. 
I know that, but surely the right honorable gentleman does not wish me to go into the ancient * history of his association with the trade union movement. If he does, I am quite ready to do so. We are asked to support this clause because it is aimed at the enemies of the trade union movement. It is true that that movement has to protect itself from the white-anting tactics of Communists, but as the Leader of the Senate knows, it has never asked the Government to help it, and to penalize Communists' organizations by introducing such a damnable measure as this amending Crimes Bill. If this measure is framed to protect the trade-union movement in Australia, why are so many trade unionists from one end of Australia to the other up in arms against it? Why have resolutions, asking us to oppose it, been received from all parts of the Commonwealth. 
If the bill, and particularly clause 7, is not an attack upon the rights of the people, why have some of the greatest legal luminaries in the Commonwealth written to congratulate me upon my second-reading speech in opposition to it? Honorable senators opposite may smile, but I have received complaints from various portions of the Commonwealth concerning the measure, and also congratulatory references to the stand I am taking. I remind the Leader of the Senate, who said that these subversive movements have slipped underground, that, on numerous occasions, I have asked the Government to take action against certain subversive  organizations, but, because their members support the policy of this Government, nothing has been done. This measure will deliberately drive underground liberty-loving persons and those who do not see eye to eye with the Government. They should be allowed to come into the light of day, and allow commonsense Australians to assess the value of their propaganda. The Labour party is endeavouring to outlaw these people and, as I have stated in this chamber before, T. had the privilege of drafting every resolution framed in the Queensland Labour movement with the object of excluding Communist organizations. 
We do not deny to Communists the right to use their propaganda or to build up their organizations, but we do deny to them the right to use the machinery of our organization for that purpose. The Leader of the Senate read only a portion of the proposed new sub-section, and in such a way that I was made to appear almost a scoundrel in moving that certain words should be eliminated, but he adroitly stopped at a certain point. He did not read proposed sub-section 2 - 
Any person who, without just cause (proof whereof shall lie upon him) - 
In other words, the accused is not to be given British justice and presumed to be innocent until proved guilty - 
refuses or fails to answer truly and fully any questions put to him in pursuance of this section. 
Who is to judge whether questions have been answered truly and fully? 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to S p.m. 

It is extremely probable that third degree methods will be applied to persons charged under this provision. A man may quite innocently fail to disclose all the information which is in his possession, or give answers which are in some respects false. 
My concern is io induce the committee to delete the words " or has knowledge or information relating to such an association ". It is not fair to pillory people who whilst not being actual participants in an offence may, because of some indirect connexion with the individuals concerned, have secondhand information or knowledge which the Government desires to secure. There is, very serious danger that innocent individuals may be the victims of a. prosecution. Who is to judge whether information given by a person is true or false? Although a person so charged may truly end fully answer six-sevenths of the questions put to him, he may be judged guilty of an offence if he fails to answer truly and fully the remaining one-seventh of the questions. I urge the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  and the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to take counsel together and endeavour to make this provision not quite so savage as it is in its present form. 
I take it that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings desires the deletion of the words " or has knowledge, or information relating to such an association", appearing in proposed sub-section 1. I invite the honorable gentleman to bear in mind that this somewhat lengthy section provides that before any action is taken a police, stipendiary, or special magistrate must be satisfied - by information upon oath laid before him by any person duly authorized by the AttorneyGeneral, that any person has in his possession or custody any documents relating to an unlawful association . . . 
If he is so satisfied he may authorize any constable to serve upon such person a notice in writing requiring him to answer certain questions. The honorable gentleman, I take it, does not object to that part of the proposed section. 
Those words were inserted for the reasons given by the Leader of the Senate. The officials of a certain organization had, without the connivance or knowledge of the rank and file, committed it to affiliation with the  Red Internationale.  I admit that the proposed new section is somewhat far-reaching, but I feel sure that it  will be administered in accordance with the best traditions of English law. It must be remembered that the whole of the working of these unlawful organizations is underground, and that they are connected with similar organizations in other countries in devising the most effective means to undermine society without their members coming individually within reach of the law. Exceptional measures are necessary to deal with exceptional circumstances. I admit that in taking power to interrogate persons who may have knowledge or information relating to such organizations, we may be taking a fairly advanced step in English law. But what happens when that step has been taken? The police, stipendiary or special magistrate, as the case may be, may by writing under his hand, authorize any constable to serve upon the person concerned a notice in writing requiring him to - 
. Answer questions submitted to him in writing; 
Furnish information cither orally or in writing; and 
Produce for inspection, or authorize in writing the production for inspection of, and the taking of copies of, any documents, 
Relating to - 
Any money, property or funds belong ing to or held by or on behalf of an unlawful association or as to which there is reasonable cause to believe that they belong to or are held by or on behalf of an unlawful association. 
The Leader of the Opposition has asked who is to judge whether a person so charged is guilty of an offence. This matter must be decided in open court. 
Does not that apply to every case that comes before our courts? The honorable senator's objection is really directed to some of the provisions of the proposed new sub-section 2, which enacts that - 

 Any person who without just cause (proof whereof shall lie upon him) - 
refuses or fails to . answer truly and fully any questions put to him in pursuance of this section; 
refuses or fails to furnish information required in pursuance of this section; or 
refuses or fails to allow the inspection or the taking of copies, of documents as required in pursuance of this section; or  (d)  gives any information required in pursuance of this section which is false in any particular, shall be guilty of an offence. 
May I remind the honorable senator again that prosecutions under this act will be heard in a properly constituted court of law, and, although I admit that this sub-section is somewhat drastic, the Government deems it necessary for the suppression of certain organizations which we know exist in this country. 
I support the amendment moved by my Leader (SenatorCollings). We strongly object to the provision which enables a prosecution to be launched against any person on the word of an informer. Speaking with some knowledge of the extreme schools of political thought, I contend that special legislation is not required to deal with any political organization in this country. Unless a person interrogated answers questions " truly and fully ", he is likely to be taken into custody. The word " fully " has a very wide meaning. A man may give all the information he has in his posesssion and yet the prospect may remain that he will be adjudged guilty of an offence in not telling all that his accuser, or his informer, thinks he knows. I am very pleased that paragraph  b  of proposed sub-section 2 will be amended. This paragraph refers to any person who without just cause "refuses or fails to furnish information required in pursuance of this section ". A man may do his utmost to give all the information he has in his posesssion and yet fail to satisfy this provision. He would again be at the mercy of his accuser. Generally speaking, this clause goes too far. Those who have taken any trouble to study the various associations connected with schools of extreme political thought know that there is no need for this legislation. It is very interesting to hear supporters of the Government say that this legislation will benefit the unions. The unions do not want it. In his innocence, one honorable senator remarked that the big unions were not against this legislation. My experience indicates to me that they are against it. 
Quite a large number. No union has asked for this legislation. I should like to know who asked for it? I do not think  any  honorable senator asked for it or thought it was necessary. However, supporters of the Government naturally feel inclined to support it in the belief that some day it may be very valuable, in the event of the Labour party adopting an extreme attitude on any particular issue. It may happen that the Labour party may take a firm stand on a vital political issue in the future, and under this legislation be declared an unlawful association. The whole bill is unnecessary. In any case, this proposed new section, particularly the paragraphs I have mentioned, should be re-cast. 
I have no objection to the clause. At the present time, the High Court is the only authority that can say whether an association is unlawful. The first part of the clause to which the Opposition does not object relates to the possession or custody of any documents relating to an unlawful association. The part to which the Opposition takes exception refers particularly to an individual who may know all about the workings of an unlawful association, although, merely because he has not subscribed in writing to its principles, be is not a member of that organization. Such an individual could be just as great a menace to the community us one who was actually a member of the association; he could do its insidious work just as effectively outside the organization, as if he were a member of it. Although, not being technically a member of the organization, he would not have its documents in his possession, he would have much the same knowledge and information a3 a member of it. He may even be a greater menace because of his non-membership, but there would be no way of getting at him if the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  were carried. Such an individual equally with a member of an organization who actually possesses incriminating documents, must be brought within the scope of the law. 
I ask the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  whether it would not be possible to prosecute in the ordinary way the man who commits a crime within the meaning of this proposed new section. Surely it is not beyond the legal resources of the Government to draft a provision that such a man shall be charged and brought into court. Under this clause, power is given to a police constable to demand from any person answers to certain questions. 
Under this provision, a man would not be brought before the court and charged. 
But prior to being brought into court he must answer certain questions. 
On the other hand, the Assistant Minister says he will be brought into court. 
This clause authorizes a constable to go to any person and require him to answer certain questions submitted to him in writing. He may submit to me, for instance, a series of questions, and I shall be obliged to answer them. If I answer them satisfactorily, according to  Senator Pearce,  I shall not be brought into court, but if I should fail to answer them, or fail to show just cause for not answering them - the proof of which will lie upon me - then I shall be proceeded against in court, where, I assume, further questions will be put to me. If a man commits a crime, why should he not be charged in court in the usual way? What is the  need, for this hole-and-corner interrogation by a constable? The Assistant Minister has told us repeatedly that this legislation deals with unusual people, and therefore must embody unusual procedure. Yet another honorable senator has interjected that similar procedure is  followed now. This provision, I submit, is puerile and stupid. According to the Assistant Minister and  Senator Pearce,  a police, stipendiary, or special magistrate may authorize a constable to question any person who is suspected of being connected with an unlawful organization. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has pointed out that such steps can be taken in respect of trade union officials in times of industrial trouble, when a union's activities mav be declared seditious. If the individual answers the questions put to him, he will not be brought into court, but if he does not answer them, he will be prosecuted. Honorable senators opposite call this British justice. Under this clause, it will be possible for the Government to get hold of some poorbeing who advocates a new social system which he believes will establish a Heaven on earth. Having had many years of experience in the Labour movement, J can assure honorable senators that many individuals whom they profess to fea as a menace to tho social order are more like characters from a comic opera than a real danger to the community. The Government is proposing this legislation in the hope that it may be of use at some future date - perhaps at a time when the workers are kicking against those who exploit them. 
 The issue involved in the proposed new section is simple. It refers to any person who has in his possession any information or documents relating to an unlawful association. Such a person may be called upon to divulge that information in the public interest. To those who find this provision offensive, I point out that if it is struck out, any citizen who was in possession of information which might be highly useful in the discovery and punishment of members of unlawful associations, could not be required to divulge such knowledge. An unlawful association is an institution specially created for the purpose of upsetting our social order. Such an organization is a menace to society. 
It is an organization whose object is to cause revolution. Australians live to-day under one of the finest social orders that man has yet conceived, and such a precious possession cannot be held and' enjoyed unless, as the Leader of the Opposition has told us over and over again, we are eternally on the watch. When our social order is threatened by organizations, or persons of diseased mentality, who seek to undo the work of great minds that have gone before us, overturn the present social order, and cause turmoil and bloodshed, are we not justified in seeing that such agencies of evil are brought to book and stamped out? But, according to those who regard these provisions as offensive, if a person has knowledge of the existence of such organizations and of their fell designs, be may nurse such knowledge and yet not be guilty of any crime against society. If, for instance, John Smith knew that a communist organization existed, and he had documentary evidence of its intention to attack some section of society, should he be free to withhold that information? The law proposes to make John Smith answerable for his criminality should he not give information which would lead to the discovery and punishment of such an unlawful association. Is there anything  wrong  in that? We are frequently told that anything which menaces the public should be attacked at its very root. When the subject of war is mentioned, we are told that what is wanted is the abolition of the causes of war. Similarly, unlawful associations must be attacked at their root. Every patriotic citizen should be required to give any information in his possession regarding the existence of such associations. 
Two classes of citizens are involved. There are those well-disposed persons who are reasonably well satisfied with the existing order of things and would willingly give information regarding unlawful associations, and there are those other persons in the community who would be loath to come forward with the information. To the extent of their unwillingness to give information, the organization would he free to carry on its machinations. Unlawful organizations should not be allowed to escape for, unless they are dealt with effectively, they may overturn society. There is nothing wrong with a proposal which seeks to control them. 
If the discussion of this clause has done no more than give the committee an opportunity to listen to  Senator Lynch,  it has been worth while. I am astounded that a good Irishman like the honorable senator, with the knowledge of all the wonderful history of his illustrious country, should be found championing that portion of this proposed new section which I wish to have deleted. The retention of the words which I seek to have removed from the clause will give to the Government an opportunity to create a squad of Pigotts and Careys -  Senator Lynch  knows to what I refer - to go round this country and rope in those persons who in any way have rubbed shoulders with people belonging to what are termed unlawful associations. Apparently,  Senator Lynch  has not read the proposed section, and therefore I propose to read it for his information - 
If a police, stipendiary, or special magistrate is satisfied by information upon oath laid before him by any person duly authorized by the Attorney-General - 
Any  scoundrel in the community whom t he Attorney-General chooses may lay the information; it does not say " any person of reputable character ".  that any person has in his possession or custody any documents relating to an unlawful association - 
I do not take exception to action directed against an unlawful association, although when I asked that Eric Campbell and the New Guard should be -dealt with, the Senate merely smiled and went on its way. If a savage clause is necessary to deal with one kind of organization, why not go the whole hog and deal with all associations, including those of the kind led by Oswald Mosley, Hitler, and Mussolini? Communist organizations appear to be regarded differently by the Government at different times, for, while they are the subject of savage legislation, strangely enough, the Government does not object to taking a deposit of £25 from a Communist candidate for Parliament, who receives less than a certain proportion of the votes cast. A Communist may appeal to the electors and if, by some stroke of fortune - or perhaps of misfortune - he receives sufficient votes to be elected, he may take his place in this Parliament. If the clause were merely directed against unlawful association, the Opposition would say " Good luck to it ". I remind the Government that it has tried several times to deal with unlawful associations, but has failed each time. Several attempts have been made to deport certain persons, but when the tests came, the Government found that it could not deport them. The Opposition objects, not to unlawful associations being dealt with, but to roping in unfortunate individuals who are covered by the plain, simple English words " or has knowledge or information relating to such an association ". Those words might refer to me, for I have knowledge of certain organizations. Although I have no connexion with any unlawful associations, and am active in my opposition to them, under this bill I may be called upon to give information regarding them. That is all right. If called upon to do so, I shall give any information in my possession; but if I do not answer truly and fully to the satisfaction of the individual who is conducting the inquisitorial investigation, I can be held to be guilty of a misdemeanour and be brought within the scope of this legislation. The onus of proof is cast on the accused individual - a procedure which is subversive of what we are pleased to call British justice. I do not know that British justice  is  . any better than the Australian justice for which I am striving. The placing of the onus on the accused  individual  is a most savage form of legislation, and I cannot understand how good Australian senators can sanction it. Least of all can I understand  Senator Lynch  approving of a bill of this character. 
There appears to be two questions involved in this proposed new section. First, there is the general purport of the section, which is that any person who  has knowledge or information relating to an unlawful association shall be compelled to divulge it. To that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  object's. The second question is that of the onus of proof. 
I cannot see anything very reprehensible in this provision. Indeed, there are other clauses in the bill which are more arguable than this one. Clause 7 does not provide that, if in the opinion of the Attorney-General, some person has in his possession information relating to an unlawful association he should be " hung, drawn and quartered," but only that he shall answer certain questions put to him. 
H - HUGHES. -I shall deal with that point later. It is useless for honorable senators opposite to become excited about something which does not call for excitement. The clause provides that an individual who is supposed to know something about an unlawful association may receive a notice from the Attorney-General calling on him to answer certain questions, or to furnish some information, or to produce for inspection certain documents relating generally to property and deeds with which an unlawful association is concerned. There is nothing very drastic or harmful in that. In the days of Hammurabi, about 2,000 b.c., and even long afterwards, the penalty for conspiring with the enemy would have been, briefly, death. By degrees the law has become more full and more technical, with the result that the minds of men become confused as to what it really does mean. 
I am sure that that would not be in conformity with the wishes of the Senate, or with present day sentiment. The Opposition also objects to the onus of proof being placed on the accused person. 
No. Sub-section 2 of the proposed new sec-' tion 30ab, provides that any person who, without just cause, proof whereof shall lie upon him, refuses or fails to answer truly and fully any questions put to him, or to furnish information or to allow documents to be inspected, or gives false information, shall be guilty of an offence. It is the person himself who causes the offence. All that he is asked to do is to furnish any information which he has in his possession relating to an unlawful association. So long as he gives the particulars and answers the questions put to him, he has nothing to fear. That is the general purport of this sub-section. I cannot see that it can adversely affect any one who has no unlawful intent, and is not bound up with an unlawful association. 
There is nothing particularly drastic or reprehensible in the general terms of this proposed section. On the other question, that of proof, I often do not consider it, wise for Parliament to throw the onus on an accused person to prove his innocence. The general attitude of British law has been that a person is innocent until he is proved guilty, and while there may be cases in which it is exceptionally difficult to obtain proof, and is almost essential to place the onus of proof on the accused, this should be done with discretion, and as seldom as possible. This proposed new section, however, has been phrased to protect the accused person. If the words "without just cause, proof whereof shall lie upon him " were omitted, and the clause read " any person who refuses or fails to answer, refuses or fails to furnish information, refuses or fails to allow the inspection, shall be guilty of an offence, penalty  £  100," there would have been no safeguard whatever for the man who could show that he had " just cause " ; those words are, in effect, his protection. If a person can show "just cause," this penalty will not be enforced against him. It is a safeguard to enable a person who is not an offender, but who is suspect, to show that he had just cause for not answering, or for not furnishing information, or for not allowing the inspection. 
It is quite competent for the committee to omit the words " without just cause, proof wherof shall lie upon him." But I would like to ask the honorable senator two questions: would he not prefer those words to be retained, seeing that they enable a person who is charged to show " just cause " and thereby escape the penalty ? 
The honorable senator would doubtless like to retain the words "without just cause" and strike out the words "proof whereof shall lie upon him". But if a person desires to obtain the benefit of this lenient provision, he should be prepared to prove that he deserves it. 
I come now to my second question to  Senator Brown.  If the words " without just cause, proof whereof shall lie upon him " were omitted, and the following proviso were inserted at the end of the clause :  - 
Provided that if such person can prove just cause he shall not be liable under this, section. would the honorable senator not be perfectly satisfied with that? He would be unwise if he were not. I do not very much like the form in which this particular proviso is framed. It does suggest that the onus of proof is thrown upon the person charged to prove his innocence. However, upon looking at the words carefully, honorable senators will find that this provision is one to enable the person so charged to have a real opportunity to answer the charge by proving "just cause ". 
It may be a joke to the honorable senator; I fail to see any humour in it. An opportunity is given to a man who is charged to clear himself. If the honorable senator prefers to take away that opportunity, he will be doing a disservice to the people whom this provision is designed to assist. 
- Honorable senators seem to experience great difficulty in understanding the attitude of the Opposition on this matter. I have moved that certain words be deleted, and  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  in his best legal manner, has proceeded to build up a case for the retention of other words which I have not mentioned and which the committee has not yet reached. We shall have something to say later about the provision throwing upon an accused person the onus to prove, his innocence. While  Senator Duncan-Hughes  was speaking,  Senator Pearce  interjected that often the accused is the only person who is able to show that he is being unjustly accused. 
Before it is known whether a person can show that he is innocent, the authorities have accused him in writing of being in possession of certain information. Then the onus is thrown upon him to prove his innocence, but he is already nine-tenths along the road to condemnation and punishment by the very fact that the authorities have accused him. I am of the opinion that honorable senators opposite, or at least those who have addressed themselves to this provision, are not seriously interested. It is common talk in the lobbies that this bill will not be proceeded with, because it is anathema to certain persons holding the highest positions in the House ofRepresentatives, and that the Senate is debating the bill merely because there is no other business to occupy its attention. 
I am sorry to hear it. 
.- I fail to see any justification for the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and I shall vote against it. I was particularly gratified to hear  Senator DuncanHughes  explain the general effect of the words " without just cause ". But I ask the Minister to explain in detail the significance of those words. For example, will a statement made under the seal of the confessional be deemed to be just cause for refusing to answer a question? Or would a person be entitled to say, "I shall not answer this question, because it might incriminate me " ? 
If the Minister would indicate what would, be a " just cause" he might remove the doubts in the minds of the Opposition. There is room for some definition. A magistrate in Western Australia might interpret the words differently from a magistrate in Queensland, and in turn both might disagree with the interpretation of a magistrate in the Federal Capital Territory. The Minister presupposes that just causes will exist for persons refusing to answer questions. Will the Assistant Minister explain the meaning of the words " just cause " ? 
 Section 30ab of the principal act is being repealed, and this proposed new section is to be inserted in its stead. So this provision is not entirely new. The context in which it will appear is important. Section 30ab is included in part LT a. of the principal act by the amending act of 1932. The heading to part II. is " The protection of the Constitution and of public and other services." At first unlawful associations are defined, and the procedure by which the Attorney-General may apply to have a certain organization declared to be an unlawful association is then set out. Section 30ab, which this section replaces, then provides certain methods of proof dealing with offences directed towards the overthrow of the Commonwealth. The proposed section does not differ greatly from the section which has been in existence since 1932, and which is being amended. Although that section has been operative for three years, none of the terrible things which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  says will happen has occurred. 
This proposed new section may be slightly stronger as to the method of proof; but, although the existing section has been on the statute-book for over three years, there have not been any prosecutions under it. In reply to the point raised by  Senator Leckie,  I may say that, generally speaking, the determination of what is or what is not a " just cause " rests with the magistrate. 
Certain wellknown principles are laid down, such as the confidence between a solicitor and a client, and between a doctor and a patient, information got under the seal of the confessional. A husband and wife are entirely protected. A father and child are not completely protected, although there may be circumstances under which prosecution would be withheld. A mother may give information against her son, but she may say frankly and freely, and admirably as most of us would say, that she will not incriminate him. I am not prepared to say at this juncture whether that would be a " just cause " within the meaning of the proposed new section. Those are some possible instances which may come before a magistrate for determination as to whether or not there was a "just cause." Under no circumstances can a perso* be compelled to answer in a court of law, or out of it, questions which may incriminate him. 
Honorable senators in Opposition object to the subversion of British justice contained in the words "proof whereof shall lie upon him." Honorable senators supporting the Government are already aware that we do not believe that the proof should lie upon the accused. Those who bring a man before a court should prove his guilt, and not ask the accused to prove his innocence. I move - 
That the words " (proof whereof shall lie upon him)," proposed sub-section 2, be left out. 
Generally speaking, the onus of proof rests upon the accuser, and not upon the accused; but there are instances when that principle is departed from, and one of which is when the information sought lies almost exclusively in the possession of the person who is interrogated. Proposed subsection 2 is an exception to the general rule, but in a measure of this nature the departure from the general principle is justified. 
As I understand that portions of this measure are based upon an act passed thirteen years ago in the British Parliament, I should like to know if a provision similar to the proposed new section dealing with unlawful associations is embodied in the British act. 
If the words are left out, the sub-clause will then read - 
Any person who, without just cause - 
refuses or fails to answer truly any questions put to him in pursuance of this section . . . shall be guilty of an offence. 
Does not the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  consider that even if the words complained of were deleted, automatically the onus of proof would lie on the person charged? I suggest this because the Grown, in laying a charge, would follow the wording of the section, and in practice the onus of proof does not always lie on the Crown. Apart from anything which may be in a statute under which a charge is laid, certain events may take place during the trial, requiring the person charged to show proof. 
I do not go so far as the honorable senator. In cases such as those suggested by him, the prosecution would be required to establish a  prima facie  case. The honorable senator will know that in some acts, the mere averment of the prosecution is  prima facie  evidence and the person charged is required to rebut the charge. I think that in the absence of the words " proof whereof shall lie upon him it would be impossible, in some instances, to establish a  prima facie  case. 
I see nothing objectionable in the provision as it stands. It states that any person who refuses to answer truly and fully questions put to him, or refuses or fails to do any of the other things required under this proposed new sub-section, shall be guilty of an offence. The inclusion of the words " without just cause " merely gives the person questioned an opportunity to furnish a satisfactory explanation in writing. If he does this may we not assume that he will clear himself of any' charge that may have been laid against him? 
, -  There are one or two minor points upon which a word or two might be said. The words " without just cause " simply mean that the person charged must satisfy a police, stipendiary or special magistrate, that he has not been guilty of an offence under this section without good reasons. If honorable senators will turn to proposed new section 81a, sub-section 2, they will find the wording somewhat different. It enacts that if any person "without lawful authority or excuse " does certain things he shall he guilty of an offence and liable to imprisonment for two years. There is no reference in that proposed new subsection to the onus of proof being upon anybody. Presumably the Government would supply it on the question of lawful authority, but it would be upon the person charged to show that he had an excuse for his action; so that without inserting the words " proof whereof shall lie upon him " as in the proposed new sub-section now under consideration, exactly the same purpose is effected. As to the other issue raised by  Senator Leckie,  I do not wish to mention all the possibilities attaching to the inclusion of the words " without just cause ". That would be a matter for the magistrate to decide. I assume that if after the laying of a charge, the relevant documents passed properly out of the possession of the person charged, he would be able to give a satisfactory reason for refusing or ailing to allow inspection or the taking of copies of documents. In such circumstances the magistrate would probably regard the answer as satisfactory. 
 I move - 
That the words "or 
gives any information required in pursuance of this section which is false in any particular . . be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following sub-section: - " 3. Any person who gives any information required in pursuance of this section which is false in any particular shall be guilty of an offence ". 
The amendment is clear. The new section replaces a provision which was much more drastic. 
This particular proposal contains a number of points to which the Opposition objects. Wo have already mentioned those objections. At this juncture, I wish merely to point to the Assistant Minister's  (Senator Brennan)  amendment at the end- of clause 7 as one result of the second-reading debate, and the contribution of members of the Opposition to that debate. 
 I do not claim the credit for myself.I suggest that the action taken by the Assistant Minister is proof of the need for the scrutiny of measures by members of the Opposition. Ministerial supporters were quite content to accept the bill as it stood originally. 
In none of the speeches by supporters of the Government was the need for a change of this character indicated. The fact that this alteration has been made at the eleventh hour shows, in my opinion, that many more amendments could have been made to the bill. These, I believe, will be made in the House of Representatives. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-i ask the Leader of the Senate if he will be good enough to direct the attention of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  to a newspaper report this morning that one of the speakers at the Conference of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in Melbourne declared that the general strike was the only weapon which the workers could use, and that it should impose sanctions on the war mongers of Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister;  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that at the recent Loan Council meeting in Melbourne the Premier of Western Australia was requested to pass wheat legislation to supplement the Commonwealth's proposed legislation? 
Is it a fact that on the day  Mr. Collier  reached Perth (Tuesday, 19th November) from theLoan Council,  Mr. Manning,  AttorneyGeneral  of  New South Wales, stilted that " during the last few days the Premier  (Mr. Stevens)  has been in touch with the Commonwealth Government on the question whether this legislation should apply to the present harvest and in view of the discussion this Government has decided to inform the House that this act shall not be made applicable to this harvest and it is thought in consequence that the flour tax will  be  continued meanwhile " ? 
If so, has the Government of Western Australia been advised of the  altered  policy arrived at in the discussions between  Mr. Stevensand  the Commonwealth Government, and announced by  Mr. Manning  to the Legislative Council of New South Wales? 
If not, why  not? 
Is the Government in a position to announce what assistance will now be given to- 
the wheat industry generally, and 
distressed wheat-growers in the partially drought-stricken districts  of Australia, or otherwise for the coming harvest? 
. . A message was sent to the Premier to that effect. 
Yes. 3 and 4. The policy of the Commonwealth Government has not been altered. 
The hill brought down by the Government to give effect to its policy is being proceeded with, and will, it is hoped, be passed during the present session. The question of special assistance to wheat-growers in droughtstricken areas cannot be considered till the States have proceeded with their legislation in accordance with the decisions reached at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in October, 1935. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
How does the Minister reconcile the reply given to  Senator .  E. B. Johnston on the l5th instant,that " it is essential in order to provide some guarantee for the wheat-growers for the coming harvest, that the main wheat growing States shall at once introduce their legislation " and the balance of that reply, with the statement reported to have been made by  Mr. Manning,  the Attorney-General of New South Wales, on the 19th instant, that "during the last few days the Premier  (Mr. Stevens)  has been in touch with the Commonwealth Government on the question whether this legislation should apply to the present harvest, and in view of the discussion this Government has decided to inform the House that this act shall not be made applicable to this harvest and it is thought in consequence that the flour tax will be continued meanwhile"? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
Both of these statements are consistent with the published resolutions of the Australian Agricultural Council, reached at its meeting on the 7th October,1935, which are: - " That this conference of State governments gives general approval to the Commonwealth plan for securing a home-consumption price for wheat and will favorably recommend its adoption to their governments. If insuperable obstacles delay implementing the plan for the coming harvest, this conference urges the temporary re-imposition of the flour tax to enable a home-consumption price to be paid. The conference recommends that the homeconsumption price for wheat shall be 4s. 9d. a bushel, f.a.q., f.o.r., at seaboard." 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What are the last recorded figures of the annual expenditure of - 
The Commonwealth ; 
Each State- 
State government; 
Local governments; 
Friendly or benefit societies; 
Trades unions; 
Charitable organizations; in respect to - 
Old-age pensions; 
Invalid pensions; 
Unemployment relief; 
Casual unemployment; 
Casual sickness, including free medical treatment and medical aids; 
Destitute persons, aged, indigent, or infirm? 
The whole of the information desired by the honorable senator is not available, but inquiries are being made with a view to furnishing such information as can be obtained. ' 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Has he received a petition from the  Tennant  Gold Mining Industries Association, with 300 signatures attached, asking for the erection and maintenance by the Government, of a battery on the Tennant gold-field, capable of treating 50 tons a day with a complete cyanide plant? 
If so. will he inform the Senate as to the Government's intention in the matter? 
Yes. 
It is not the policy of the Government to provide batteries so long as they are adequately supplied by private enterprise. The present position is that there aretwo private batteries operating on thefield,and several companies and syndicates have intimated that they are prepared to erect batteries as soon as water can be made available. The Government is doing everything possible to find water, three boring plants being continuously in operation. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is the statement, appearing in many of the principal newspapers of the Commonwealth, to the effect that the Governor-General elect is to be initiated into his high office in Melbourne, official ? 
Is the reason given, viz., that  Sir Alexander  Hore-Ruthven desires to go to Tasmania, considered satisfactory, seeing that Melbourne is only a few hours' journey from the National Capital - Canberra ? 
Will the Government arrange for the installation of the new Governor-General to take place in Canberra? 
Yes. 2 and 3. Full regard was given to the various aspects of this matter before the decision was reached that the ceremony would take place in Melbourne. Preliminary arrangements for the ceremony are being made, and it is not proposed to vary the decision already announced. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice -  1.Whether, in view of his answer on the 23rd September last, to questions by  Senator Ceilings  upon this matter, he can give the Senate any information regarding the two vessels to be built by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited? 
Has the contract been let, and, if so, are the vessels to be constructed in Australia or overseas ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer :  - 1 and 2. The following information was recently supplied by the managing director of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited in relation to the matter: - "The Australian tender for construction of one or alternatively two ore-carrying steamers was found to be very considerably in excess of comparative British tenders. A conference was held with representatives of the Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Company, and an opportunity offered to review prices with the object of reducing the margin of difference. The costs of steelplates and sectional materials were found to be quite in line with British prices, but the combined effect of the costs of other materials and of various uncontrollable items left the margin so great that we were not able to reach common ground, on which the building of those vessels in Australia could be made an economically sound proposition." 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the South Australian Premier,  Mr. Butler,  promised the Commonwealth Government that he will introduce legislation in the South Australian Parliament which will be complementary to the bill concerning the home-consumption price for wheat which the Federal Government has introduced in the Federal Parliament? 
The Minister for Commerce states that the information will be obtained and furnished to the honorable senator later. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In view of the definite announcement in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  under date the 11th November, 1935, to the effect that the Eastern Prospecting Syndicate was negotiating with a Japanese firm for the sale of " a fabulous quantity of iron ore in New Britain," can he give the Senate any information on the matter ? 
I have read a statement in the press concerning an iron ore deposit in New Guinea. There is no information in the possession of the Government concerning the Eastern Prospecting Syndicate, nor of any negotiations for the purchase of any iron ore deposit in the territory. Inquiries have been made of the authorities in the territory, and a further statement will be made when a reply comes to hand. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Has the Postmaster-General's Department received an application for a licence to establish a " B " class broadcasting station at Fremantle, Western Australia? 
Has the Fremantle City Council requested that a licence should be granted for a broadcasting station, in the second city in Western Australia ? 
If so, what decision has been arrived at in the matter? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
Two applications have been received for a broadcasting station licence in Fremantle. 
Yes. 
Each applicant has been informed that it is not . practicable at present to authorize a wave-length for another station in the PerthFremantle area. 
[3.13].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is the annual taxing measure which is necessary in order that the income tax for the current financial year may be assessed and collected upon the income derived by taxpayers during the year 1934-35. The schedules to the bill set out the rates of ordinary income tax which are to be levied upon income from personal exertion, upon income from property, and upon combined incomes derived from both personal exertion and property. These basic rates are set out in the first three schedules to the bill. The rates ave the same as those which have been in force since the 1933-34 assessment. The schedules which follow also impose rates and amounts of tax similar to those which have been in force since 1933-34. The special property tax of 5 per cent, of the taxable income .derived from property is set out in clause 5. 
It will be observed that the only alteration of the former rates of tax is in relation to the rate of the special property tax. It is proposed to reduce that rate from 6 per cent, to 5 per cent. As stated in. the Treasurer's budget speech for the current year, the Government regards this special property tax as a severe form of emergency taxation from which relief should be given as soon as reasonable opportunity presents itself. It has, unfortunately, not been found possible at present to do more- than reduce the tax to the extent now proposed. The reduction of revenue from the special property tax resulting from the lowering of the rate is estimated at £200,000 for the total assessment for 1935-36 which must be based on the 1934-35 income. The income tax collections during 1935-36 have been estimated at £8,800,000. Of that amount, it is expected that over £5,000,000 will be collected by the 30th June, 1936, on account of the assessment for the financial year 1935-36. The remainder of the £8,800,000 represents estimated collections during the present financial year on account of taxes amounting to £4,380,000, outstanding at the 30th June, 1935, and also on account of assessments made during 1935-36 in respect of earlier assessment years. 
Having looked -through this measure I am impressed with the fact that once again the Government proposes to distribute largesse, not to that section of the community which pre-eminently deserves it, first, because it is the least wealthy and, secondly, because it is the most valuable, but to people who ought to be made to carry the full burden of taxation because they can well afford to do so. The remissions of taxes which have been made during the last two or three years by this Government to the wealthy sections of the community are equivalent to an annual distribution of approximately £5,000,000. This distribution is proposed at a time when the Government is haggling with the pensioners over the restoration of their  meague  pension to £1 a week. It is true that the Government contemplates doing something for the soldiers, and that the Opposition will have an opportunity to support that measure ; but public servants have not yet had their salaries restored in full, nor are members of this Parliament being paid at the contract rate agreed upon for their services - a rate which at best is low enough. The Opposition could move amendments to this bill; but no notice would be taken of them because this is a money measure. It could also protest against the proposed distribution of surplus revenue, but it knows that the Government's proposals will be carried. Although the Opposition will not oppose the measure, it believes that the people of this country should know that there is a great difference between the policy of the Labour party, both in this Parliament and elsewhere, and the policy of the present Commonwealth Government in regard to taxation. 
Does not the honorable senator believe that reduced taxation will result in cheaper rentals for the workers ? 
.- On a previous occasion I drew attention to the fact that the special tax on property, in effect, fixes . the rate . of interest which persons have to pay on mortgage. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  has spoken very strongly against the principle of this tax. Originally it was 10 per cent.; it was subsequently reduced to 6 per cent., and the Government now proposes to reduce it to 5 per cent. The total revenue derived from this special tax amounts to about £1,200,000 per annum. It would have been a commendable gesture on the part of the Government towards the industrialists, the manufacturers, and primary producers of this country, if it had wiped out this taxation altogether. I do not agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  because I hold the view that cheap money inevitably means greater returns to industry and enables private enterprise to give more employment. Reduction of taxation is the only means whereby cheap money can be made available. I venture to say that the Commonwealth loan now being floated at 3$ per cent, will absorb the whole of the money that would otherwise be available for loan on mortgage. A person with an income of £2,000 would have to receive 5£ per cent, from the mortgagor to get a, return equal to that yielded by the 3- per cent, interest on Commonwealth bonds, because only one tax is levied on income from bonds, whereas on income from mortgage five taxes are payable - federal tax, special property tax, State tax, State special tax, and unemployment, relief tax. 
That is so. In fact, a man with an income of £2,000 to-day would have to get per cent, interest from mortgages to be in the same position as if he invested his money in Government bonds. 
It is better that the money be put into industry rather than into Government bonds. I hope that the Government will wipe out this tax as soon as possible. The vital need of industry to-day is cheap money. This taxation represents a means of providing cheap money for the Government, but making it dear to everybody else. 

 Senator PAYNE (Tasmania) [3.24 J. - But for the extraordinary statement made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  I would not have spoken on this measure. He characterized the bill as another effort on the part of this Government to distribute largesse to its supporters. When he makes such a statement he does not know what he is talking about. He also contended that the Commonwealth Government should follow the example of Labour governments in making a wide differentiation between the taxation of income from property and the taxation of income from personal exertion. If the honorable senator examines the schedule to this- bill he will find that in the Commonwealth, also, a wide differentiation between these two classes of taxation applies. The rates which are set out on page 4 of the bill reveal a wide differentiation, not only between the respective rates, but also between the amounts on which those rates are applied. For instance income from personal exertion must exceed £6,900 before the highest rate of tax is applicable, whereas the corresponding level of income from property is £3,700. The highest rate of taxation applies only when the income from personal exertion is almost double that of income from property. That differentiation in itself is a very heavy burden to the latter class of taxpayers. The main point to be considered in connexion with this measure, however, is that in remitting some of this tax on property the Government is not distributing largesse to its supporters, as the Leader of the Opposition says, but is simply partially removing a burden that was unjustifiably placed on these taxpayers by the Scullin Government. 
That tax, at the rate of 2s. in the £1 on income from property, was in addition to other taxation levied on the same income - ordinary income tax, super income tax, and special income tax. Because the Government now proposes to reduce the special tax on income from property the honorable senator has the audacity to refer to the Government's action as a distribution of largesse. 
I cannot laugh with the Leader of the Opposition; rather I must express sympathy with the people whom he professes to represent when he, as their leader knows so little about income tax legislation as to have the audacity to refer to this particular remission of taxation as a distribution of largesse. I hope the day is not far distant when this taxation will be wiped off the statute-book altogether. It was never justified, and so long as it remains it will diminish the avenues of employment. The Leader of the Opposition must realize that the more that money is taken from the people in the form of taxes the less will be the amount available for employment. Everyone admits that. I cannot understand the honorable senator's failure to welcome a reduction of taxes in any way whatever. Every reduction of £1,000 must mean that the money available to provide employment is increased by that amount. 
It always means that.  Senator Gibson's  remarks on this subject were correct. Reduction of taxation must mean that primary producers and employers in trade and industry will be enabled to secure money at reasonable rates of interest from private lenders. The higher the taxation, the higher the rate of interest that must be earned by private lenders to meet taxation. I regret that the Government has not seen its way deal- to propose a reduction greater than one per cent, in respect of this tax on property. I remind members of the Opposition that the continuance of the present rate of this tax imposes a very heavy burden on many people who have a gross income from property as low as £200 per annum. The Leader of the Opposition objects to relief being given to these people; yet he and his colleagues always profess to be advocates of the relief of the under-dog! I hope that the day is not far distant when the Government will receive sufficient revenue from income tax proper to be in a position to abolish this special taxation on property. 
This measure is most disappointing to the comparatively small body of taxpayers who pay federal taxes. There are 221,886 resident federal income taxpayers in Australia. It is surprising that in a population of 6,500,000 the number is so small. In addition, there are 10,501 absentee income taxpayers, and 6,449 companies paying income taxes to the federal authorities. According to the latest figures available in the report of the Commissioner of Taxation, I find that for the year ended the 30th June, 1934, there were 1,155 casual taxpayers making a total, including absentees and companies, of 239,971. Those constituting this comparatively small proportion of our population were looking forward to some substantial relief from the staggering burden which has been placed upon them. We read in the newspapers a week or two ago,- that for the first four months of this financial year there was a surplus in the Commonwealth Treasury returns of £1,990,000. I know that the Minister will say that this small reduction is being given in the first portion of the financial year, but we know that in the latter part of the year revenue comes in freely. "With such an enormous surplus in four months, there is no justification whatever for the Government retaining a super tax of 5 per cent, on income from property. Although Australian taxpayers are again being told that prosperity is just around the corner, the Government is still placing an enormous burden upon the people. Some rates have been reduced slightly, but the Government is still collecting more money in all forms of taxation, with the exception of land tax, than in any previous year. The relief of income tax granted under this measure - a paltry 1 per cent, in respect of one tax only - amounts to only £200,000 a year. There is not the slightest justification for the continuance of a special federal income tax  on property,  or for the continuation of the high rates of taxes imposed in the extraordinary schedules embodied in the bill, and which I challenge any person to understand. At present taxation has reached such a high level that most taxpayers regard it as legalized robbery at the hands of the Federal Government. This special income tax on property should have been abolished at least three years ago, because during that period it has been levied merely as a contribution towards the trust fund to which the Auditor-General referred in his import. I commend that official for the comment which he has made on this phase of taxation. He said - 
Altogether the amount of revenue moneys, well over £8,000,000, is held in trust fund, though really  part  of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. That sum is available for revenue expenditure or towards the automatic reduction of the accumulated deficit of £17,000,000. 
It will be seen that the Government is retaining this super tax on property amounting to £1,000,000 a year in order to maintain a reserve of £8,000,000 which has accumulated during past financial years. The Auditor-General continued -  lt does not appear to be generally realized that, by accumulating revenue moneys in trust  fund  for subsequent expenditure, a deceptive appearance has been given to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The result is that taxation of many millions has been imposed, particularly during the  difficult  depression years, a considerable time ahead of requirements. This, of course, is a most serious matter. 
It is a serious matter that this small body of 250,000 taxpayers should find that the rate is to be only slightly reduced instead of abolished. The fact that £8,000,000 has been placed in the trust fund means that practically a whole year of income taxation has been placed in reserve - the estimate for this year is, I think, £8,800,000  -  while at the same time the Government is maintaining excessive and oppressive rates of tax in this and in other directions, the greater portion of which is extravagantly expended by the federal authorities. 
The framers of the Constitution always intended that the right to collect income tax should be reserved entirely to State governments, which are able to make better use of the money so collected. When the Bruce-Page Government was in power,  Mr. Bruce  said that it was wrong for one government to collect revenue for another government to spend. He said in Perth that he hoped that the Federal Government would eventually be able to vacate the field, of income taxation altogether. In reply to the interjection of  Senator Hardy,  I believe the collection of income tax should be reserved entirely to the State governments, and that the Commonwealth Government should, as  Mr. Bruce  suggested, vacate that field altogether. At the original meetings of the Federal Convention it was suggested that the Federal Government should not have the right to impose an income tax, and that the imposition of such a tax should be left entirely to the States. It was, however, pointed out that in the event of war heavy expenditure would be incurred, and that the Federal Government should have the right to impose this tax in order to provide for such expenditure. That is the only justification for a federal income tax. 
The Federal authority will not vacate any of the fields of taxation into which it has entered. This is illustrated particularly by the retention of the sales tax, and other imposts.While the inner reserve of £8,000,000, to which the Auditor-General referred exists no justification can he advanced for the continued imposition of the heavy rates of tax proposed in this measure. I challenge the Government to shown any necessity' for the continuance of the income tax at these rates. Income taxes are killing enterprise amongst our citizens and preventing the re-employment of our people. I consider that Parliament has been induced to retain this tax on property, and the high rates of income tax, because of the policy of the Government of transferring revenue to trust fund. This practice has been most severely cri- ticized by the Auditor-General, whose outspoken remarks on this subject deserve the thanks of every Australian taxpayer and every member of the public.  Mr. Cerutty  describes the Government's bookkeeping methods, in continuing this system, as being unnecessary and confusing; he states that they are "quite opposed to orthodox accounting, commercial practice and commonsense " ; and I agree with him entirely on this point. I am pleased to notice that taxpayers' associations, chambers of commerce and other representative bodies throughout Australia Approve of  Mr. Cerutty's  comments so far as they affect the bookkeeping and the excessive and unnecessary taxation which this and other governments have levied and are continuing to levy.  Mr. Cerutty's  remarks were also supported in the press by economists. Professor F. A. Bland, Professor of Public Administration in the Faculty of Economics, Sydney University, said - 
The matter should not be allowed to rest where it was, but should be fully probed. Nothing disclosed more clearly that Parliament did not understand the present system nf bookkeeping used by the Treasury than the attack which members were making on  Mr. Cerutty,  who had been doing his duty on behalf of the public. 

 Mr. Cerutty performed his duty ably in informing the public that £8,000,000 - a sum nearly equivalent to the Federal income tax collections for a year - had been transferred to trust fund as a sort of inner reserve at the disposal of the Government to be expended, if it so chooses, without consulting Parliament. The taxpayers, indeed, the general public, are entirely in accord with  Mr. Cerutty's  fearless and businesslike criticism of political bookkeeping, federal extravagance, and excessive taxation. 
The first results which should follow the Auditor-General's disclosures are the abolition of the special tax on income from property, and reduction of income taxes and the heavy tariff burdens, including the primage duty. That such concessions will be put into effect by this Government is naturally to be expected, because on such a policy the Government and particularly the Country party, appealed to the electors eighteen months ago. 

 - Dr. Earle Page's policy speech contained many important proposals and I propose to quote an extract from it. He said - 
Much remains to be done, especially in regard to those taxes which increase interest rates and production cost. Such taxes arc the property income tax, the land tax, and the primage on British goods and excessive tariffs generally, all of which, the Country party is prepared to abolish. 
I subscribe to that policy entirely and I trust that later, in committee, the Senate will instruct the Government to abolish the special property tax. It is difficult to understand the formulas fixing the rates of income tax as set out in the schedule, but they should be substantially reduced. If the Government will adopt this policy it will do more than anything else to relieve the present burden on Australian industry, and will take a notable step towards solving the unemployment problem. 
I listened with interest to the remarks of the speakers from the Ministerial parties. They were keenly interested in securing a reduction of the rate of the tax because their economic interests are affected. Possibly if my interests were similarly involved I would warmly  support the proposal of  Senator Johnston  further to reduce the special property tax. 
 Senator Johnston  is naturally upset because the Government's proposals do not go far enough to satisfy him. The labour party believes that before taxes should be remitted greater effort should be made to give au income to those who have no income at all. As has been stated in this chamber time and time again, huge numbers of people in Australia are in receipt of practically no income whatever. 
If I were a member of the Government, I should do my best to ensure that taxes were distributed over those persons who are best able to bear them. The first duty of the Government should be to look after the tremendous number of Australians who receive no incomes. 
 Senator Hardy,  by his interjection, suggests that by reducing the property tax we shall reduce rents. In the past four years, I understand, remissions of property tax amounted to nearly £4,860,000. Before  Senator Hardy's  contention can be accepted as being correct he will require to prove that rents have been reduced, following those remissions. My experiences of the conditions in Queensland during the past few months convince me that the reduction of rents which should accrue as the result of this remission of property taxation, has not taken place. 
I realize that many good Australian citizens have been unemployed for so long that, they are unable to pay rent. If  Senator Hardy's  contention be correct, many people should be paying no rent at all because of the huge remissions of the tax on income from property. But in many cases rents have been increased. Why is Sena tor J Johnston so disappointed with the remission of taxation ? He is not concerned with the people who pay rents. He and  Senator Payne,  who favour a reduction of this tax, are not actuated so much by a desire to see rents reduced as by a desire to see their bank balances increased. I am not blaming them for that but I point out that whilst there has been a great remission of direct taxation by this Government there has been a huge increase of indirect taxation which, as everyone knows, is borne mainly by the masses of the people whose standard of living is thereby seriously affected. In 1930-31, the indirect taxation was equivalent to £4 18s. Id.  per capita,  and direct taxation was £2 17s. 7d. In 1934, indirect taxation had increased to £7 0s. 10 3/4d.  per capita,  and direct taxation had been reduced, to £1 14s. 5d. These figures indicate that there has been an amelioration of taxes in respect of those who are in a position to pay, and an increase of the burden on the shoulders of those who are not so. well able to bear it. 
It cannot be denied that all conservative governments of Australia, and for that matter in other countries also have, in recent years, given taxation relief to the richer classes in the community - the interest takers - while at the same time adding to the burdens of the masses of the people. 
In the last analysis, all the real work of the community is done by the workers. Those who form what may be called the rentier class are not the wealth producers as alleged by  Senator Payne.  Only a few weeks ago Bishop Le Fanu. one of the most distinguished ecclesiastical leaders in this country, in a lecture before members of the Constitutional Club in Sydney, emphasized that the interesttakers were drawing too much money out of the community. But the day is coming when the income which they will enjoy will be measured by their contribution to the total wealth production of this country. 
I am well aware that many persons, whose income is derived from interest on one form or another, re-invest it in projects for further wealth production. I have not the slightest misconception about the effect of the existing monetary system on. the economic life of this country. What I wish to emphasize is that the real wealth producers are not the interesttakers, but those who are actually engaged in various forms of production. Ifall rentiers were forced out of the country the wealth of Australia would still be produced by the workers, as it is to-day. 
Government supporters have argued that if the tax on property were remitted the development of this country would be accelerated and the volume of unemployment would be lessened. That is not a true statement of the position. We know very well that irrespective of whether the property tax is high or low, if any industry can show a profit on its operations it will have no difficulty in obtaining financial support from the banks. The attitude of the banks to any form of private enterprise depends entirely upon the financial return from the undertaking. Those who urge that the development of industry depends upon further remissions of taxes cannot substantiate their argument. We have been told that but for excessive taxation, the volume of capital available for industry would be vastly increased. 
Does  Senator Gibson  really believe that the amount of money available for investment in industry really depends upon a reduction of taxes? 
Does any Government supporter imagine for a moment that if, unfortunately, the war between Italy and Abyssinia suddenly involved Europe and Australia in another world conflict, the banks would trouble whether taxation was high or low before they collaborated with the Government in the issue of credit for the prosecution of the war? They know very well that the necessary money would be available. 
If, regardless of the incidence of taxation,money can be found for the prosecution of a war, is it not anomalous that there should be any difficulty, in times of peace, to make money available for the development of industry? 
Under our present banking system hundreds of millions of pounds were raised in Australia for the prosecution of the Great War. 
It was made available by bank credits.  Sir Hal  Colebatch, the present Agent-General for Western Australia in London, whilst a member of this Senate, proved conclusively that, under our present system, the Australian banks could, by the issue of credits, make available all the money required for our legitimate needs.  Senator Payne  and  Senator Johnston  are not correct when they say that the amount of capital available for industry is dependent upon low taxes on property income. I repeat that, whether taxation be high or low, if industry can produce and market commodities at a profit there will be no lack of money for expansion. 
Is it not also clear to the honorable senator that if, owing to a dislocation of world markets, industry is depressed, money will not be expended in further developmental projects? The problem is to find wider and more remunerative markets for our production. If it can be established that production is profitable, make no mistake about it, the banks will find the money for the expansion of industry. During the war there was a definite demand in all countries for commodities, and money was readily available for the expansion of war industries. Taxation burdens were not then considered. However, I do not wish to detain the Senate further, except to say that we on this side believe that, instead of remitting the taxes of those who are able to pay, the Government should expend money in such a way as to provide work and a good living wage for those who have no income at all to be taxed. 
I should not have spoken in this debate had not my colleague from Western Australia  (Senator -Johnston)  made some' astounding statements in support of his amendment. The honorable gentleman has consistently advocated that the Commonwealth Government should retire from the field of income taxation, leaving this source of revenue to State governments. I should very much regret that step, because the Commonwealth would surrender revenue amounting to about £13,000,000, and as a consequence its attitude to proposals for financial assistance to the smaller States might undergo a change. It stands to reason that the loss of such a huge amount of Commonwealth revenue would have serious repercussions upon the States. I take this opportunity to dissociate -myself from  Senator Johnston's  advocacy of the retirement of the Commonwealth Government from this field of taxation. Recently, the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  'replied effectively to  Senator Johnston  in this connexion, when he showed clearly that Western Australia would lose by the vacation of this field of taxation by the Commonwealth. A few weeks ago, 'the Melbourne  Age  voiced a strong protest against continued applications by the less wealthy States to the Federal Government for financial relief, and pointed out that 'tax-payers in Victoria, and presumably in New South Wale® 'also, were being called upon to contribute too much towards the relief of the poorer States. I do not agree with the opinions expressed in the  Ago,  which, unfortunately, viewed the subject from only one angle. It forgot that, ever since the discovery of gold in Western Australia in 1S92, that State has 'been a good customer  of the manufacturing States. Gold to the value of about £180,000,000 has 'been. produced by Western Australia and much of it has been exchanged for manufactured goods imported from the other States, principally from Victoria. In other words, a big proportion of the value of the gold production of Western Aus tralia has come to the Eastern States to pay for goods imported from them. No mention of that fact was made by the  Age,  which claimed thai the "mendicant States " were .asking for too much of the federal pie. Some weeks ago, when discussing the budget, I pointed out that the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  had taken a rather gloomy view of the financial position and had disregarded the greater prosperity evident throughout the Commonwealth. I stated then that conditions showed an upward trend, and I hinted at a federal surplus again this year. I now join with Senators Gibson .and Payne in urging that, if the super tax be not entirely wiped out, it should at least be reduced substantially, and not merely by a paltry 1 per cent. 
It is a paltry reduction considering the incidence of this tax. The marginal note to clause 5 - " .Further tax on income from property " - is objectionable. The abolition of  the  super tax would mean that carpenters, bricklayers and other artisan, who are largely dependent for their work upon the type of taxpayer affected, would ,have more opportunities to obtain employment than they have now. I welcome the reduction of the tax as a step in the right direction, but I hope that, if not this year, the Government will see its way, next year, to abolish it altogether. I am encouraged in that hope by the figures recently published showing the results of the financial operations of the Commonwealth for the last four months. 
.- I am somewhat amused at the statement of  Senator Allan  MacDonald that most of the gold produced in Western Australia has been exchanged for goods manufactured in Victoria. Let me put the position from the opposite point of view, and say that Victoria has sent manufactured goods to the value of £180,000,000 to Western Australia and received im return so many ounces of gold. I claim that, as there was a fair exchange of commodities, there is no ground for complaint. It may even be argued that Victoria sent valuable goode to "Western Australia an exchange for a certain weight of metal. 
I am also amused at the attitude of the Opposition in advocating greater pensions to persons whom I  may  describe as State pensioners, while proposing increased taxation of private pensioners, by which term I mean persons  who  receive dividends from industry. It is strange that a political party should so differentiate between a dividend drawn from industry and a pension provided by the State. I agree with those honorable senators who have pointed out that, if money is taken from industry, or if the amount of money available for investment' in industry, is 'reduced, opportunity to provide employment is lessened. Usually, a business which makes a profit expends some of its surplus in expanding its business, either by installing further plant or by some other development which provides further employment; but if the money is taken by the Government and is paid out as pensions, it is lost to industry. 
On the contrary, money is the easiest  thing  in the world to lose. If goods "represent money, then the  honorable  senator must agree that much money was blown away and lost during the Great War 
I regret that  the  Government has not seen its way to reduce the super tax to a greater extent than is proposed in this bill. It could have done so had it not  under-estimated  the revenue from Customs. In. view of the increased revenue from that source, lt should be possible still further to reduce taxation, and I hope that as soon ,as possible the iniquitous super tax will be removed, in the interest, not of the rich man who pays it, but of those workers who would find employment were it abolished. 
 Senator Leckie  does not usually .speak at length,  but his remarks are always interesting. He has the happy knack of saying many pungent things in a short time. To a great extent, I disagree with the honorable senator, but that may be because we have been trained in different political, schools.  Senator Payne  contended that further remissions of taxation would assist industry to provide more employment, and  Senator Leckie  said that money would be lost if paid away as- pensions. Let us suppose that more money were expended in the payment of pensions. "Where would that money go? According to  Mr. Cerutty,  who recently retired from the position of Auditor-General, a lot of it would be spent in the purchase of alcoholic liquor. Even so, it would assist the industry which provides alcoholic refreshment. Many persons who will not invest money in industry because of the risks associated with business, are willing to purchase stock in Government loans. That money is lost to industry.  Senator Leckie  must admit that the money spent in pensions and in providing work for the unemployed eventually finds its way into the pockets of the traders and manufacturers, including the manufacturers of alcoholic liquors; but, in any case, it circulates throughout the community, creating a more optimistic outlook and a belief that some day the corner will be turned and a brighter economic future opened up for this country. The present Commonwealth loan will release the wealth which the well-to-do classes of this country now have stored away in the banks, and are afraid to spend or invest in industry, because of the effects of the depression. 
I feel sure it is in the great majority of cases. 
Those companies, I remind the honorable senator, make very big profits. One has only to look at the magnificent buildings which these companies have erected in the various capital cities to realize that fact.  Senator Johnston-  referred to an amount of £8,000,000 held in trust fund which, he said, the AuditorGeneral had revealed as having been prematurely and unnecessarily taken from the people in taxes. My objection to that particular fund is that it is derived from indirect taxes levied in a very cunning fashion. The mass of the people at all tunes object to indirect taxation. It was in order to meet the difficulties arising out of the depression that sales tax was first imposed; it has now become a modern horror. . It is an insidious tax, because it is included in the purchase price of goods. When a man buys a suit of clothes or any other articie  he pays money into the coffers of the Government. That amount of £8,000,000 represents customs duties and sales tax. lt was not taken from the wealthy classes of the community. Yet the Government proposes further to reduce by £200,000 a tax that is paid by wealthy propertyowners. We claim that before any reduction of taxes is made in favour of wealthy people the sales tax should be removed, and something should be done to reduce the contributions made to the Government's coffers by the masses of the people by way of customs tax. We are against any reduction of direct taxes imposed on people who are best able to bear them, and the levying of further taxes on people least able to bear them. The whine - I cannot express it otherwise - continually heard from honorable senators opposite that money remitted by way of reduced taxes, to the wealthy classes finds its way into industry, is utter rot. A lot of this money is not spent in industry, but is stored in the banks. 
No. It is not buried, but it is placed in the banks, and no honorable senator can deny that during the years of depression it was kept there, because the wealthy depositors were afraid to take the risks of investing it in private enterprise, as they were not sure that it would then return them 10 per cent, or more. They preferred to get the bank rate and keep it safe. When banks and insurance companies invest money in Commonwealth loans they really do not give anything; they follow this course only when those in control think it is better to invest in  such  a way. They are not inclined to risk  capital  in industry at the present time. The people of the Commonwealth owe nothing to these people for making investments in government loans ; they do so because such a loan offers the best terms for investment that can be had at the present time. I hope that less  charity  will be shown to the wealthy classes bv this Government, and that more notice will be taken of the fact that money given to pensioners is immediately circulated in the community to the benefit of the community generally. Perhaps a little of this money is spent in the way suggested by the Auditor-General; it would be an extraordinary assumption that all pensioners are immune from the temptation to take an occasional drink. To those honorable senators who claim that more money should be made available to industry I point out that loan money is being devoted to public works undertakings at the present time. Fortunately for the wealthy investors in government loans, but unfortunately for the Government and the people, these investments give a. handsome return to the investors, particularly a3 they are afraid to take the risks of investing in industry. The more taxation is remitted to these people the more will money find its way into private banks; very little of it -will be invested in industry. Apparently the only way in which this money can be utilized for the general good of the community is when it is invested in Commonwealth loans raised for public works. This experience was borne out in Queensland during' the last election in that State when the Labour party swept the polls. A large number of people who had been opposed to the Labour party for over 20 years, and still are, accepted the view that the policy carried out by the Forgan Smith Labour Government in this respect over the last three years was" the best means of circulating  money  in the community. Whether it is spent in the payment of pensions or on public works money is rapidly circulated in the community and benefits the workers and traders generally and makes for better conditions for all classes. The adoption of such a policy explains the Queensland Labour Government's tremendous majority at the last Queensland elections when it almost annihilated the Nationalist party. Consequently, when T hear the old Tory aphorisms beingrepeated on this subject I am forced tothe conclusion that it is very difficult for some people to learn by experience. 
[4.30].- in  reply  -  Senator Johnston  quoted comments by Professor Bland in Sydney on certain remarks concerning trust funds made by the Auditor-General in his annual report. The honorable senator credited the learned professoor with having said that members of Parliament evidently do not understand finance. After listening to  Senator Johnston  I could almost believe that there is some ground for the professor's statement, because the honorable senator seems to think that it would be in the interests of Western Australia if the Commonwealth Government vacated the field of direct taxation. I thought that the honorable senator had read the second report, made in 1935, of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No matter what the honorable senator may think of the commission's conclusions he cannot challenge its figures because these have been taken from the  audited balance-sheets of the Commonwealth. On page 29 of the commission's report are given figures showing payments made by the Commonwealth to or for Western Australia in 1933-34. These were - 

<graphic href="148332193511283_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

I point out that the amount of the Federal AidRoads grant to Western Australia in that year exceeded the amount of petrol tax collected in that State. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Those are thus fully set out on page 93 of the commission's report - 

<graphic href="148332193511283_13_1.jpg"></graphic>

The special grant to Western Australia this year is £800,000. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE Yes. The amount of direct federal taxes collected in Western Australia was £584,000; so the amount to be paid by the Commonwealth by way of special grant to that State this year will be more than £200,000 in excess of the amount that the Commonwealth collects by direct taxation in Western Australia. 
Other payments made by the Commonwealth in or on behalf of Western Australia, as set out in the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report, are - 

<graphic href="148332193511283_13_2.jpg"></graphic>

The total amount expended by the Commonwealth in Western Australia was £5,276,000. These transactions show that for that financial year the debit balance against Western Australia was £1,666,000, or £3 15s. 8d. a head of population; but if the additional grant of £200,000 be added the debit becomes £1,866,000. Whatever other reasons  Senator Johnston  may be able to advance in favour of the Commonwealth's retirement from the field of income tax altogether, he certainly cannot urge that that course would benefit Western Australia. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE .For South Australia tlie debit balance is £3 2s. 2d. and for Tasmania £3 lis. 7d.both less than Western Australia. Queensland has a credit of 5s. 6d. a head, and Victoria and New South Wales have credits of 14s. 2d. and ls. a head respectively. 
If the figures mean anything at all they show that if the Commonwealth Government retired from the field of direct taxation it could not continue the grant now paid to Western Australia, and that Western Australia would have to impose not merely the rate of tax which the Commonwealth imposes, but in order to obtain the additional £800)000, a rate about 20 per cent, higher: That would be in addition to tlie State income tax now levied. Again I refer to the comments of Professor Bland, who joined in the resolutions applauding (he Auditor-General's remarks on the (subject of the trust fund. One thing is certain - were it not for the practice of paying money into a trust fund the rate of tax would fluctuate more than it does at present. That is one of the points which  Mr. Cerutty  and those who applaud his statement overlook. Some two years ago when the Commonwealth adopted a somewhat vigorous defence policy, involving the expenditure of capital over three years, there was a surplus in the Commonwealth accounts. Heavy guns and their armaments cannot be obtained in the year in which the Government decides upon their purchase. Material may be ordered in that year, but it may not be delivered until the following year, and the mounting of the guns may not be completed until a year law. "Were the Government to adopt tlie suggestion made by the AuditorGeneral and commended by  Senator Johnston,  what would happen would be this: In the year in which the Government decided upon a certain defence policy the rate of income tax could remain normal, but during the year in which war material, previously ordered, was delivered, the rate would nave to be increased substantially in order that money might be found to meet the cost of that material. 
Yes, there- would have to be a marked increase in income and all other taxes to meet the expenditure in that year. To avoid such violent fluctuations a proportion' of the. surplus of two years ago was paid into the trust fund, and when amounts for defence purposes fall due payments are made from that fund. In some cases the amount available in that fund will not be sufficient, and this year it is being supplemented by payments from Consolidated Revenue. Were it not for the trust fund there would be no possibility of making remissions of taxes, but, on the other hand, it would be necessary to provide for enormous increases. 
I am glad that the honorable senator has reminded me of that. The greatest work done in the interest of science by' any Commonwealth organization is that performed by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. Had that council to depend on the amount which the Treasury could spare in certain years it would have been unable to adopt a continuous research policy, but, because the Government took advantage of a fortuitous surplus and paid a portion of it into a trust fund, the council knew that a sufficient sum was available to meet expenditure over a number of years. In that way it was able to commence valuable scientific research work which could not have been undertaken without tlie guarantee that money would be avail- , able in subsequent years. To undertake research the council had to bring  scientists from all parts of the world, and in doing so guarantee them employment over a period of years, so that they could complete their work. The establishment of a. trust fund enabled that to be done. The work could not have been continued had it been dependent  an  the Commonwealth having surplus revenues in subsequent years. 
W hen one compares the honorable senator's suggestion with the facts which I have just recited, it will be seen that that is a very cheap statement. The honorable senator's criticism bounces off without making any impression' whatever. 
Exactly. Let me give honorable senators another illustration, because there is a great deal of popular misconception concerning the trust fund, even amongst learned professors. I mention almost with bated breath that we have an invalid and old-age pensions liability and a war pensions liability amounting to approximately £21,000,000 a year. If on the 30 th June all surplus moneys in the Treasury were handed over- 
-If that generous policy were still adopted, what would be the position of the Commonwealth when the first payment of the invalid and old-age pensions and war pensions became due after the 30th June? The Government would not have the money. Any one who studies the public accounts knows that revenue does not come in regularly at so much a week. During one period of the year it comes in like an avalanche, but in other periods it is a mere trickle. If all surpluses were to be cut off at the 30th June, that money would not be available in the Treasury to meet pensions and other liabilities in July. If it were not in the Treasury or in a trust fund the Government would have to arrange a bank overdraft to meet its liabilities. Contracts also have to be considered. If a bank overdraft had to be arranged the Government would be faced with this peculiar spectacle: During one financial year it might have a surplus of several million pounds; but, if it complied with the Auditor-General's suggestion, and did not pay a portion into a trust fund, during July it would have to pay interest on borrowed money to meet its liabilities. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. If money were not in the Treasury these liabilities would have to be met by obtaining a bank overdraft. Honorable senators will recall that a bill embodying authority to pay a specified amount into a trust fund to meet invalid and old-age pensions, war pensions and other liabilities is presented to Parliament periodically. 
The present system is businesslike, and preferable to paying interest on borrowed money. That is the position of the trust fund, and not much credit is due to  Mr. Cerutty  and the learned professor who have condemned the system. 
Is the honorable senator the mouthpiece of the public? I doubt very much whether the people generally condemn the present system. This policy, which was adopted many years ago,has been operated by all govern ments, and is the 'wisest one in all the circumstances. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 -  (1.) In addition to any income tax payable under the preceding provisions of this act, there shall, be payable upon the taxable income derived by any person - a further income tax of 5 per centum of the amount of that taxable income. 
SenatorE. B. JOHNSTON  (Western Australia) [4.49]. - I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave out the word " five ", subclause (1), with a view to insert in lien thereof the word " one ". 
If this request is approved, the remission of the special property tax will be increased from £200,000 to £1,000,000. As the Auditor-General has pointed out in his report, the amount of moneys in the trust fund is £8,000,000, and that is really part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. He says - 
That sum is available for revenue  expenditude  or towards the automatic reduction of the accumulated deficit of £17,000,000. It does not appear to be generally realized that by accumulating revenue moneys in trust fund for subsequent expenditure a deceptive appearance has been given to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The result is that taxation of many millions has been imposed, particularly during the difficult depression years, a considerable time ahead of requirements. This, of course, is a most serious matter. 
A sum of £8,000,000 was tucked away at the 30th June last for future expenditure; some of the money was collected years ahead of requirements, even during the difficult period of depression. In addition, after four months of this financial year has expired, there is a surplus in the current accounts of £1,990,000, making a total of nearly £10,000,000 at the disposal of the Commonwealth Government. In asking the Government to remit the special tax on income from property I am merely requesting that it should cease to collect an amount equivalent to 10 per cent, of this surplus, presuming, of course, that the £8,000,000 lias not been substantially reduced since the 30th June. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator  Pearce), in his speech, confirmed the fact that successive federal governments are extorting from industry and from the pockets of the people, who would spend money wisely on developmental works and in creating employment, sums of money years before it is required. These collections are stored away in Government vaults, regardless of the fact that the taxpayers are being robbed. This excessive sum, unwarrantably extorted from the taxpayers, is responsible for much of the federal extravagance. "With such large reserves at its disposal, the Federal Government seeks fresh avenues of encroachment on State rights. The real reason for the establishment of these trust funds was that the Commonwealth might deliberately rob the State governments of their rights under the federal  Consti- tution  at the time. The Constitution originally decreed that at the end of every financial year the surplus revenue of the Commonwealth should be distributed amongst the States, but the Federal Government resorted to a mean device to over-ride that provision, degrade the States, and take the money that they required for developing land, building railways, and generally rendering essential services. At the inception of federation it was considered that the Commonwealth Government would attend to matters of defence ; and I do not begrudge any expenditure for that purpose. But I am strongly opposed to any subterfuge by which the State Governments are robbed of their legitimate revenue. The practice is entirely wrong. Since the inauguration of the financial agreement, £8,000,000 has been piled up in a trust fund. Last year an excess of revenue over the Estimates was recorded. In the first four months of the current financial year Commonwealth revenue continues to be buoyant, there being a surplus of £1,990,000, but the sole remission of income tax which the Government proposes to make totals only £200,000. In 1934-35 the Government was obliged to make available £4,000,000 for the relief of wheat producers, but on this year's Estimates not a penny has been set aside for such a purpose. Relieved of this obligation,- what excuse has the Government for retaining this inordinate tax? In the final analysis it amounts, to legalized robbery of the taxpayers, whose pockets are being emptied years before the money is required. In consequence, the primary industries are being starved- 
On  a population basis. 
Does the honorable senator propose to connect his remarks with the request? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [4.59].  -  I am sure that the committee will not support this request. The Commonwealth Government could not possibly accept a request of that character.  Senator Johnston  is quite incorrect in saying that the proposed remission of the property tax is the only concession to be made to taxpayers this year. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The budget shows that the proposed remissions for the year are: Special tax on property income, £200,000; sales tax exemptions, annual value £200,000 (for the remainder of this year, £150,000) ; primage, £45,000; excise on Australiangrown tobacco, £90,000; excise on cigarettes, £25,000; total, £510,000. Some of those remissions will operate for only a part of the year, so that the annual value of the concessions will greatly exceed £500,000.  Senator Johnston,  in referring to the surplus of £1,900,000, should remember that Commonwealth revenue does not flow in regularly, and a temporary surplus for four months of the year does not necessarily indicate a surplus at the end of twelve months; there may be a deficit. The honorable senator spoke as if the £S,000,000 of trust funds were available for immediate use; that is quite incorrect, because,, as I indicated previously, some of that money is earmarked for various purposes. For instance, some of it represents the provision made for defence. I therefore ask the committee not to support the request. 
 I do not propose to support the request, although I feel strongly in regard to the property tax. I suggest that the Government - especially in view of the statements of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  that this imposition would be abolished at the earliest opportunity - should increase the rate of income tax byl-J per cent., which would compensate for the remission of the property tax. This would place mortgagors in a better position than at present, for many of them will have great difficulty in borrowing money. I resent  Senator Johnston's  attitude, which is also adopted by some other honorable senators, of laying the blame on the Federal Government for the extravagant expenditure that occurs in Australia. Such an attitude may be popular in the various States, but it is altogether wrong for a member of the Federal Parliament to adopt it. Who is spending the money to-day? The States have added £130,000,000 to the national debt in the last seven years, compared with £4,000,,000 added by the Commonwealth. The States are responsible for the extravagance. 
A great deal of the extravagance arises from the generosity of the Commonwealth in making liberal grants of money to the States. If the odium of collecting taxes devolved on them, they would not be so ready to spend money as they are to-day. Is the forthcoming loan on behalf of the Commonwealth or the States? Of course, the money is being raised for the States, which are going merrily along adding £20,000,000 a year to the deficits of this country ! The States will shortly have to reconsider this reckless policy. I do ask the Government to consider my suggestion to increase the income tax. because mortgagors are enduring hardships by paying higher rates of interest temporarily. A greater measure of prosperity has come to Australia in the past two years than anybody expected, and I hope the day is not far distant when high taxes will be reduced. In the meantime, relief should be given to mortgagors. 
&gt;As the amendment raises the whole question of Commonwealth taxation, I think it desirable that I should state my general views with regard to it before a vote is taken. I wish, at the outset, to dissociate myself from the method adopted by  Senator Johnston.  Since it does not help in the discussion of the amendment to talk about legalized robbery, I shall not deal with it from that angle. Nor do I intend to vote for it, because to do so would be to take the business out of the hands of the Government. In the budget the Government announced the taxes which it intended to impose, and the remissions which it proposed to give ; but there are some things which justify, I think, some criticism. One of these is the fact that the Government has budgeted for a surplus of approximately £l,000,000.Thus it would appear that  Senator Johnston  has at least some justification for his amendment. Times are difficult. A substantial surplus may be considered desirable in a year like this, but I believe there would be less chance of adverse criticism if the Government kept its expenditure and income fairly equal. To budget for a surplus of over £1,000,000 is to invite criticism, especially from those business interests which consider they could very well do with that one million pounds. This sum, it should be noted, would be sufficient for the purposes of  Senator Johnston's  amendment. There can be no questioning - I say this without hesitation - that there is widespread disappointment at the small remissions of direct taxation this year.  Senator Johnston  was on safe ground when he emphasized that point. There is a general feeling that the remissions should have been greater. It is admitted that the  Government is com:mitted to heavy expenditure for defence, but it is also known that its commitments in respect of pensions have been increasing at the rate of about. £1,000,000 a year, and that various public works, which may or may not be developmental, such as, for example, the Red Hill to Port Augusta railway, are being proceeded with. There is undoubtedly a feeling that the Government is spending money which it would be wise to leave in the pockets of the people by a further reduction of taxes. 
I should be glad to support  Senator Johnston  or any other honorable senator in efforts to reduce the special tax on property with a view to its eventual elimination, if I could see my way clear to do so without imperilling possibly many proposals which the Government has in view, and which will make a substantial drain on the Treasury. Every one knows that, from the time of its imposition, I have been opposed to this tax on the ground that it is an unjust levy on industry; but being in the minority in this chamber my efforts have been unsuccessful. Once a tax is imposed it is very difficult to get rid of it. This Government has been earnest in its desire to ease the load on those sections of the people who already were heavily burdened, and it is gratifying to know that this super tax has been halved in recent years. 
I feel sure that if it had been possible to reduce the levy to 3 per cent, instead of 5 per cent, the Government would gladly have done so. But we all know the difficulties which it has to surmount. Almost daily applications are being received from all sections of the community for further assistance to the industries in which they are engaged. 
By taxing the people. 
I am glad to know that in addition to complying with the imperative demands from various sections of the community for financial assistance, the Government has been able to make provision for some reduction of taxation. I cannot support the amendment but I hope that in the near future the Commonwealth finances will be so improved as to enable the Government to make still further reductions. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD (West obliged if the leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  would give me some explanation of the meaning of paragraph c of cause 5. That clause states - 
In addition to any income tax payable under the preceding provisions of this act, there shall be payable upon the taxable income derived by any person - 
in the course of carrying on a business, where the income is of such a class that if derived otherwise than in the course of carrying on a business it would be income from property. 
That is to say, the income referred to would be taxed at the higher rate. If a company were carrying on a manufacturing business which showed a surplus and decided to re-invest it in some other industry - perhaps gold-mining - the income from that source, I contend, should not be taxed at the property rate because the money would be invested in a purely industrial concern. I doubt the equity of a provision which taxes that income at a higher rate. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [5.15]. - If the course which the honorable senator has suggested were adopted by the Taxation Department it would get into a hopelessly inconsistent position. If a private individual invests his savings in a business venture the income from the investment is taxed at the property rate. Why should not a company also be taxed if it invests portion of its profits in the same way? When any portion of the income derived from a business is set aside for investment, it really becomes a property investment, and the resultant return should be taxed at the property rate. 
Request for amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Schedules 1 to 7 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill provides for the payment of a bounty on the export of oranges from the Commonwealth to the United Kingdom. During recent years, the Australian citrus industry, like other primary industries, has been confronted with many difficulties. Some years ago an inquiry into the industry was undertaken by a committee appointed by the development branch, and a report was issued in 1930. Since then the Government has given much consideration to the problems affecting the industry. The industry itself has not been completely silent in the matter. During 1933 and 1934 the exporters of oranges were guaranteed 13s. a bushel case, and in respect of those whose shipments were covered by comprehensive all-risks insurance policies, tho guarantee was increased to 13s. 5d. a bushel case in order to cover the added cost of the insurance. After that scheme had been in operation for some time, the Government realized that it had certain disadvantages, inasmuch as the exporters of high-quality fruit, whose return was equal to 13s. or 13s. 5d. a case, received no assistance whatever from the Government, whereas the exporters of inferior fruit, which brought a very low price, were paid by the guarantee a sum which brought their return to 13s. or 13s. 5d. a case. In other words, the Commonwealth made available to the exporters of inferior fruit a considerable amount of money by way of guarantee, whereas the exporters of a high class quality got nothing. That was a premium on inefficiency. The Government has decided to vary this basis and to substitute for it a bounty on citrus fruits exported from the Commonwealth. The bill embodies its decisions. 
Bounty will be paid at the rate of 2s. a case on oranges exported to the United Kingdom, which absorbs the great bulk of the exports of citrus fruits from this country. The grower of fruit of inferior quality will receive no encouragement to export it to the United Kingdom, because the bounty will only be sufficient to compensate a man whose fruit brings a reasonable price on the overseas market. That is the real principle embodied in this bill. 
Among the difficulties facing the growers of citrus fruits is the loss of a great part of the New Zealand market. A severe blow was dealt to the industry when the. Government of the dominion of New Zealand imposed an embargo against the importation of citrus fruit from Australia, with the exception of oranges from South Australia. While the embargo remains Australian growers of citrus fruits must seek other markets overseas in order to dispose of their surplus production. The total export of citrus fruits to the United Kingdom and countries other than New Zealand increased from 97,000 cases in 1933 to 213,000 cases in 1934. The bulk of the fruit was exported to the United Kingdom, the 1934 shipments to that market being 190,000 cases as against 77,000 cases in 1933. Honorable senators will therefore appreciate why the Government has given so much attention to the export of citrus fruits to the United Kingdom. 
The amount expended under the guarantee in respect of the 1933 season was £3,000, whilst it is anticipated that over £10,000 will be required to meet the guarantee for the 1934 season. An amount of £20,000 has been placed on the Estimates this year for the bounty provided for in the bill now before the Senate. This year valencia oranges are bringing about lis. a case, and navels about 12s. a case. Last year's general market prices were considerably higher. 
The conditions respecting the oranges which are the subject of the bounty, are contained in the schedule to the bill. A committee of investigation set up by the industry has made suggestions to overcome some of the difficulties associated with the export of Australian citrus fruit to the United Kingdom, such as cold storage, marketing, shipping and packing. The recommendations of the committee have been of assistance in framing the conditions . which are considered necessary in regard to oranges intended for export. The conditions set out in the schedule relate to the picking, handling, grading, packing and shipping of oranges. Their purpose is to ensure that only fruit of first-class quality shall be consigned to the British market. It must be remembered that Australian citrus fruit has to be marketed in the United Kingdom in competition with first-class fruit from Brazil and other countries nearer to the British market which experience no difficulties in connexion with cold storage. With these facts in mind, the Government has endeavoured, in COllaboration with the industry, to formulate a plan for the more efficient marketing of Australian citrus fruits overseas and to secure the best advice possible, as a result of scientific research, with a view to overcoming the many difficulties associated with the export industry. By tightening up the regulations the Government hopes to be able to eliminate the export of a considerable quantity of inferior citrus fruit from Australia. It is realized, of course, that it is impossible for citrus-growers to produce all firstquality fruit; nevertheless the Government has to bear in mind that in the British market Australian citrus fruit has to meet the competition of some of the best fruit produced in the world. For that reason it decided to help Australian citrus-growers to meet that competition. The Government confidently believes that the bill will give to the Australian growers of citrus fruit financial assistance on the soundest possible business basis, and will be of considerable assistance to many growers who are facing serious financial difficulties at the present time. 
I cannot give the information offhand; but if the experts of the department have it I shall supply it later. The bill will stand the scrutiny of those who are interested in the citrus industry, either directly or indirectly, and I commend it to the Senate. 
This bill will not be opposed by the Labour party which, for a number of reasons, is gratified at its introduction. The Opposition, particularly those of its members who come from Queensland, will always favour the granting of assistance to any Australian primary or secondary industry which needs it. The introduction of this measure provides further evidence that private enterprise, cannot produce, distribute and market its own produce without government assistance and control. The more we on this side see industries, particulary primary industries, tending towards government assistance and control the more satisfied we are, because we know that a government ought to be able to do this job better than private enterprise can hope to do it. 
I am getting rather tired of hearing  Senator Abbott  speak of the wool industry as though it were far superior to other industries. 
At the present time the wool industry is negotiating with the Government for assistance in certain directions. 
As time goes on, it is more than likely that this Parliament will be asked to do something to assist the wool industry, and when that time comes  Senator Abbott  can rest assured that the Labour party will support any reasonable proposal to promote greater prosperity in the industry. I wish to emphasize that the Labour party has a definite policy in regard to the production and distribution of wealth. It believes that the present conditions in this respect are absolutely anarchic. Except in respect of those industries which are now, to some extent, under government control, no attempt is made towards a planned economy. No effort is made to find out what the requirements of the several nations are, what the exportable surplus is likely to be, what prices are likely to be realized overseas, and what is necessary in regard to packing and grading. Everything proceeds by rule of thumb methods; it is a case of "Every man for himself and the devil take the hindmost ". As a result, an ever-increasing num ber of people, in order to avoid being taken by the devil, are seeking government protection. The Opposition sees in this measure another- primary industry being given a measure of control in order to secure first, the best quality of product, and secondly, the most effective method of assuring to the growers the best possible return. It therefore will support the bill. 
Unlike the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I do not seize this opportunity to demonstrate, as he did to his own satisfaction, that the citrus industry has failed, and that the only way to revive it is to institute complete governmental control. 
There is a world of difference between producer-control secured by co-operative action between grower and Government and direct governmental control. Past experience in connexion with the Dried Fruits Export Control Board has shown that once a framework is built - and, I trust, it will be built according to the advice of those engaged in this industry - producercontrol will place the citrus industry on a sound basis. This bill represents what can be called " interior " help to the industry. It is not of such great interest to honorable senators representing other States as it is to those representing New South Wales. This is not because citrus fruits are not grown in the other States, but because, of the collapse of the export market, the industry in ' that State suffered most, and I do not hesitate to say that as a "result of that collapse the growers in New South Wales are now in a critical position. I make an appeal on behalf of the citrus industry, primarily because it represents the essence of closer settlement ideals. Although there are many advocates of the stabilization of the wheat and wool industries, those industries, while of tremendous value to the nation, are not so effective as citrusgrowing in promoting closer settlement. That fact will be demonstrated to any one who flies over the irrigation areas of New South Wales. The farms are so numerous that they resemble a chessboard. Therefore, I submit that any industry which promotes closer settlement, and directly provides much employment, should be supported by adherents of all political parties. The volume of capital invested in the citrus industry is not generally known. It is certainly not a fly-by-night industry; neither is it confined to backyards. It has been estimated that the money invested in the industry amounts to between £8,000,000 and £10,000,000, and it employs thousands of people. As this legislation is designed to help the industry over a stile - and it has had many stiles to surmount during the last few years - it should be supported by every honorable senator, particularly as the difficulties of the industry have increased through the loss of the profitable export market. 
Now I propose to examine the main difficulties confronting the industry. The Leader of the Opposition, no doubt, will immediately say that the industry is in trouble because orderly marketing with Government control has not been imposed. 
I shall be quite frank. To a large extent, the citrus industry has lacked orderly marketing in the past, both within Australia and without, but that is no indication that the growers are averse to greater organization and control, providing it is producer-control. If only because of the crucible of adversity into which they have been plunged, we may assume that they are eager to establish orderly marketing, if they are satisfied that the move will bring financial stability. Broadly, I separate the difficulties confronting the industry into three divisions. First, as I have already admitted, orderly control of marketing within and without Australia is lacking. Citrus fruits in large areas of the States reach maturity simultaneously, and, although cool storage is available in many centres of production, gluts are at times unavoidable under the present marketing system. Even assuming that co-operative organization existed among trie growers, it would still be most difficult to control the individual grower. The position in this respect is not similar to that prevailing in the dairying industry. In the citrus industry a man may have an acre or two under cultivation, and be content to do his own packing and sell his products at the best prices offering in his local centre. This attitude will make very difficult the institution of co-operative control with its consequent price stability. The second difficulty confronting the citrus industry is the lower prices prevailing not only in Australia but also in the export markets. The Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  has already pointed that out and the citrusgrower must face the fact, that this year when he exports his oranges to the United Kingdom, he will not get the same price as he secured a year or two ago. The United Kingdom is not so profitable an export market as is New Zealand. The third, and greatest, difficulty confronting the industry, particularly in New South Wales, is what is commonly known as the New Zealand embargo-. It is .not within the province of honorable senators during the discussion of this bill to say why that embargo was imposed. Still we must recognize that in spite of all the efforts we may make to establish a remunerative citrus trade elsewhere, one of our greatest and most profitable export markets should be New Zealand. I am sure that the Government will, as it has done in the past, endeavour to get that embargo lifted. It seriously affects the growers in all States, but it operates particularly harshly on the growers of New South Wales. In 1931-32 the total quantity of oranges exported from Australia was 166,254 centals, of which New South Wales growers produced 116,557 centals, or 70 per. cent, of the total export. Thus one can easily realize that the export trade is vital to the New South Wales growers. Of Australia's total export of 166,254 centals of oranges, New Zealand took 130,S58 cental's, or 79 per cent, of the total export, therefore, remembering that the New South "Wales grower produced 70 per cent, of the total exported in 1931, it is easy to imagine the present plight of the citrus-grower in that State, following the collapse of the New Zealand trade. Without wishing to be parochial in this matter I point out that the loss of the New South Wales export trade has been South Australia's gain because the New Zealand embargo has been partially lifted in respect of the latter State which, to-day, is exporting a large quantity of oranges to the dominion, while the position in New South Wales has remained unchanged. Thus New South Wales growers are faced with the problem of finding new markets for their products. 
Now let us examine the result of the loss of the New Zealand trade. In 1931-32 Australia shipped to the dominion oranges valued at £119,870, for 70 per cent, of which New South Wales growers were responsible. Following the imposition  of  the embargo by the New Zealand Government in December, 1932, the value of exports in 1932-33 fell to £79,667, a great percentage of which was contributed by other States. Is it any wonder that growers in the Murrumbidgee irrigation area, who previously relied so largely upon the export trade, have their backs to the wall to-day and at every opportunity exclaim, " For goodness sake get the Government to lift the New Zealand embargo ! It is our only opportunity to  operate:'  I know that this Government has done everything  it  possibly can in that direction, but its efforts have proved abortive. I hope that following the change of government in New Zealand, our representations will be more successful than in the past.  Senator Allan  MacDonald asked about the South Australian trade, desiring to know how the New ' South Wales loss was South Australia's gain. In 1934 the New Zealand Government permitted South Australian oranges to enter the dominion .market, but only in specified quantities and in specified boats. The reason given was the alleged absence of fruit fly. The total entry allowed in 1934 was 112,000 cases. I repeat that South Australia's gain was New South Wales's loss. 
Honorable senators may argue on that point, but I am interested at the moment in getting it lifted. In 1935 South Australia exported to New Zealand 136,000 cases. Perhaps  Senator Allan  MacDonald may hope that the embargo will be continued because it has proved of benefit to South Australia, but the problem of the New South Wales grower is acute. Where is tlie New South Wales grower to dispose of the quantity of citrus products previously exported to New Zealand? That problem was referred to the Commonwealth Government, which suggested the United Kingdom as a possible substitute market, and gave official assistance to the industry in 1933 and 1934. It is very easy to say " We have lost the New Zealand market ; let us concentrate on the United Kingdom market," but many difficulties arise. In respect of the United Kingdom market, we have to take into consideration, first, the disabilities resulting from Australia's geographical position. Shipments from Australia reach New Zealand in four  day3,  whereas the journey from Australia to the United Kingdom takes six weeks and in some cases longer. On the British market our products have to compete at a great disadvantage with those from other countries, including South Africa, Spain and Brazil. Growers in New South x Wales, in order to overcome tlie disadvantages of distance, have experimented in shipping fruit in fairly green condition to the United Kingdom, but the fruit, by the time it reached its destination, had not developed a sugar content sufficient to please the English palate. They then tried shipping fruit in a fairly ripe condition, but on its arrival in the United Kingdom its quality was not sufficiently good to compete with the products of Spain and Brazil. If the United Kingdom provides the only export market which the citrus fruitgrowers can reasonably approach, the Government should concentrate upon improving the transport facilities between Australia and Great Britain. That is a problem calling for expert research. For some years, Australian meat producers were at a disadvantage in shipping frozen meat to Great Britain, but, owing to the work of scientists associated with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, in conjunction with scientific autho'rities in Great Britain, the quality of Australian beef which is now chilled instead of frozen is . equal to that produced in Argentina. As a result of the improved conditions which now prevail, Australian meat producers may expect to secure an even larger proportion of Great Britain's  chilled .beef trade. In these circumstances, with such an outstanding example of the value of research, I suggest that careful research be undertaken in connexion with the transport of Australian oranges, which have to be sold in the British markets in competition with the product of countries more favorably situated geographically than is Australia. In 1933, the export of Australian citrus fruits to the United Kingdom totalled 97,000 cases, but in 1934, owing to a guarantee of a price of 13s. a case, the quantity increased to 213,000 cases which was a satisfactory quantity but it did not give a satisfactory financial return. Notwithstanding the action of the Commonwealth Government in guaranteeing 13s. a case, the costs incurred in handling, shipping and insurance in 1933 and 1934 were so heavy that. the growers did not get anything. 
Not altogether.  The  fault was due largely to the fact that the Commonwealth Government did not adopt the right policy. When 13s. a case was guaranteed, practically every grower endeavoured to' obtain the advantage of the guaranteed price with the result that quality was in many cases sacrificed. Instead of the growers deriving substantial benefit, many did not receive any return at all. It is practically impossible to draft a measure covering all phases of the industry, but the experience which the growers have gained will be of benefit to them in the future. A guaranteed price of 13s. a case induced many growers to dump inferior fruit on the market, but a bounty of 2s. a case, on the conditions outlined in this bill, will be an inducement to ship only the best fruit which should command the highest price offering. An amount of £20,000 has been placed on the Estimates in the belief that the exports of citrus fruits to the United Kingdom this year will total 200,000 cases, but I have been authoritatively informed that the quantity likely to be exported will be only 100,000 cases. Now I submit to the Minister in charge of the bill that if exports should be reduced by one-half, the amount of bounty payable will be £10,000, and not £20,000. Is the 'bounty to be paid at a fixed Irate on the citrus f  fruits  exported or is it to vary 'according to the quantity actually exported? The delegates at the Conference of Citrus Fruit-growers, held in Sydney in April, 1935, realizing the serious difficulties confronting the industry, asked (the Government to provide a bounty of 3s. 6d. a case, but the Government considered that such a rate would involve too large a sum and eventually compromised at 2s. a case. As the £20,000 provided on the Estimates is not likely to be absorbed, I should like to know if the Government is prepared to increase the bounty from 2s. a case to the amount originally asked for by the growers? Owing to the reduced number of cases to be exported, the total payment would not exceed £20,000. 
It is not, because in 1933 and 1934 practically 90 per cent, of the growers did not receive any return at all. If the growers received an additional bounty in respect of exports to the United Kingdom for the years under discussion, they would be well rewarded. The marked reduction in the quantity to be exported this year as compared with the previous year is due to the low prices prevailing on the London market having resulted in unprofitable transactions. I strongly recommend the increase to the Government as it would be just and equitable. Many of the growers and also the Government are anxious that the industry should be placed on a firm basis in order to build up a permanent and profitable market in Australia and in the United Kingdom. Unfortunately there is a lack of unanimity amongst the growers. In some parts of the Commonwealth growers object to any governmental interference, and wish to continue the present haphazard system ; others favour a compulsory pool, and yet others a voluntary pool. . I stress the fact that it is vital for the growers to weld themselves into one organized whole. The Assistant Minister has doubtless realized that one of his greatest difficulties has been to formulate a scheme acceptable to the majority of those engaged in the industry. The delegates who attended the conference held in Sydney in April, representing Queensland, New South 
Wales, Victoria and, I believe, South Australia, suggested that the Commonwealth Government should appoint a citrus export control board, similar to the Dried Fruits Export Control Board, which should have power to issue licences to packing houses, and to control the quantity of fruit exported. In my opinion that would be a step in the right direction. I believe that such a proposal has substantial support, but until there is unanimity amongst the growers little success can be expected. The only way to save the industry is to provide for improved marketing conditions, and the appointment of an export control board, not on the lines suggested by the Leader of the Opposition, but controlled by the producers. That is the difference between boards appointed by the Commonwealth and those appointed by the Queensland Government. It is essential that there should be co-operation by the growers. 
I am glad to hear that the Queensland Government has at last been converted to the policy of the Country party. The Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  stated that this is the only assistance which the Government can offer until a permanent scheme has been adopted. I shall support the appointment of a board controlled by the producers on the lines I have already indicated. 
Clause 2 of the bill provides that " this act shall be deemed to have commenced on the first day of January, 1935." That date is also mentioned in paragraph  b  of clause 5, which reads - 
Tlie bounty shall be payable in respect of  . . navel oranges exported from the Commonwealth to tlie United Kingdom during the period commencing on the first day of January One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five and ending on the twenty-second day of July One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five. 
Does that mean that only the citrus fruitgrowers who have exported fruit to the 
United Kingdom between the dates specified will receive the bounty? I ask these and other questions because the newspapers are constantly publishing interviews in which  disinguished travellers,  upon their return from England, make caustic remarks about the marketing of many Australian products there. Some of the critics are more trenchant than others, but there seems to be a consensus of opinion among such gentlemen, who undoubtedly keep their, eyes open when abroad, that room for improvement in marketing methods exists, especially in the grading of such produce as oranges. I hope that the Minister will make inquiries as to the application of this present schedule to the exports already mentioned. For instance, the orchardist is expected to use blunt-nosed secateurs when cutting oranges from the tree, and in the process of picking and packing, he .must use gloves. Misshapen or corrugated fruit is not permitted to be exported, and pickers must be careful of how they lay the fruit in the case, which, incidentally, must conform to the standard dimensions. I raise these matters in an endeavour to avoid a repetition of this continual criticism of the export of misshapen or badlygrown fruit. What is the procedure in regard to the inspection of that fruit by the Commonwealth officer before it leaves these shores? I hope that the Minister will answer that question when he replies. Various opinions on the wisdom or otherwise of paying ' bounties were expressed in this chamber long before ever I entered it, but according to the logic of the Leader of the Country party  (Senator Hardy),  the  exporter, if the quantity sent abroad shall fall below the estimate, should be compensated at a higher rate than 2s. a case. Obviously, he desires that the grant of £20,000 should be allocated to the orchardists irrespective of the total number of cases exported. That is to say, if growers in the Murrumbidgee area, which, I understand, includes the Griffith irrigation area, were able by an " eat more fruit " campaign, to increase the local demand and so' reduce the number of cases for export, perhaps only 20,000 cases would be sent abroad, but the growers would still receive the full amount of £20,000. 
I cannot understand the reasoning of the honorable senator in putting forward that suggestion. I hope that adequate steps will be taken to ensure that the best type of fruit reaches the United Kingdom. Although I asked  Senator Hardy  the question several times, he did not explain why the Government of New Zealand placed an embargo on New South Wales oranges. One answer suggests itself, although it might not be the correct one, but I think that the matter goes deeper than the actual importation of oranges into New Zealand. If one tried to obtain a complete history of that embargo, not only on oranges, but on other primary products, one would find that the New Zealand people are objecting to the trade balance between the two countries being overwhelmingly in favour of Australia. If  Senator Hardy  and other representatives of New South Wales, who are very high protectionists so far as Australian products are concerned, were to look for the real reason of the embargo I think they would find it is as I have stated. I support the second reading of the bill and in committee I shall refer to some important details that will require consideration. 
1 support this measure, which has excellent qualities and is a step in the right direction. In South Australia the majority of the citrus-growers are returned soldiers whose holdings are situated along the banks of the river Murray, and they have experienced severe difficulties during the past two years. They have attempted to export oranges to . the United Kingdom. As was pointed out by  Senator Hardy,  at first they were guaranteed 13s. a case for the oranges, but this price actually left them in debt. The financial assistance was absorbed in freight and other charges. A bounty of 2s. a case is little enough, and despite the remarks of  Senator Allan  MacDonald, I think, considering that only 300,000 cases have been exported this year to the Old Country, that the least the Government should do is to grant the reasonable request made by the citrusgrowers at the conference in Sydney in April last. 
But no specific sum of money was set aside for the apple-grower. 
- They can be reconciled to a certain extent. The export of apples to the United Kingdom has been proceeding foi a number of years and Australia has established a market there. On the other hand, the legislation now before the Senate is largely experimental. Australia is endeavouring to establish a market for oranges in the Old Country, and we must give some encouragement to our citrus-growers, who are prepared to take the risk entailed in selling their oranges on the British market,  Senator  Hardy has mentioned the charges involved in freights alone in shipping oranges to New Zealand or to the Old Country. The bounty is inadequate. When reference is made to the bounty of 2s. a case, many people believe that the cases containing fruit for home consumption and the export cases have the same capacity, and that the fruit is of a similar standard. But an export case has practically one and a half times the capacity of the case used in Australia. Apart from that consideration the conditions set out in the schedule as regards picking and packing must be observed. These details certainly warrant the payment of a larger bounty.  Senator Hardy  also alluded to transport facilities. At one time we believed that it was impossible to send chilled beef from Australia to the United Kingdom, but now the difficulties have been practically overcome. That success demonstrates what can be achieved by experimentation. I believe that similar success could be achieved in regard to oranges if we conducted experiments along the right lines. The Government itself could render valuable assistance to enable growers successfully to compete with the fruit marketed by countries much nearer to England. 
I move - 
That the third report from tlie Regulations and Ordinances Committee, presented to the Senate on the 31st October, 1935, be adopted. 
As this report was laid on the table of the Senate on the 31st of last month honorable senators have had ample time to read and consider it. In moving its adoption, I am simply following the procedure observed when the first and second reports of the committee were presented. It is neither necessary nor desirable that I should speak at length in support of the motion. The report speaks for itself, and as I assume that honorable senators have read it, no useful purpose would be served by my elaborating what is, perhaps, better said in the report itself. I may, however, be permitted to allude briefly to three or four matters mentioned in it. 
Clause 3 makes mention of a series of regulations which, in the opinion of the committee, are in precisely the same position as the regulation, the disallowance of which I moved in the Senate a month ago. It is not the province of the committee to touch on matters of Government policy. Its function is to report to the Senate whether or not regulations laid on the table of the Senate are in accordance with the law and with certain general principles, but I may perhaps be allowed to go so far as to say that it does not appear to the committee that the noncompliance with the law which, in its opinion has taken place in connexion with a number of regulations mentioned in this clause, is of a very serious nature. The transgressions vary in degree. Nevertheless, the committee deemed it its duty to indicate the regulations which, in its opinion, were not in conformity with the law. I mention in particular Regulation No. 58, which deals with an amendment of war service homes regulations. In this case there is 710 evidence of moral turpitude - if I may use the phrase without conveying a false impression - in connexion with what was done, but the committee felt that it was improper to do it in this particular way. It appears that a person, after having contracted to pur-. chase a war service home, had left Australia. Proceedings for repossession were commenced, but it was impossible to prove to the satisfaction of the magistrate that the man had ever, in fact, entered into possession of the home. The department wished to resume possession but as, under the rules of evidence existing, it was impossible to do this, the department got over the difficulty by prescribing that a new set of rules of evidence should be applicable to this case. This, in the opinion of the committee, was not a proper thing to do. Although perhaps the objective was, in itself, quite good, the method, in the opinion of the committee, was bad. 
Another reference in the report relates to regulations of the Postal Department with regard to telephones. It seems to me, and also to other members of the committee on whose behalf I am speaking, that a regulation which has been amended to deal with individuals who tap " any telephone system improperly throws upon the proprietor of the house in which the telephone is installed or the land over which the line is taken, the obligation to prove that he was not in any way responsible for the unauthorized tapping of the service. There may be some legal answer to' the committee's objection - it may be claimed that it is permissible under the act - but apart from legal technicalities, the committee considers that it is not in accordance with the general principles of the law that an individual who owns a house in which there is a telephone, or the land over which the telephone line runs, should be held responsible if the service is tapped by some unauthorized individual. In some instances, as we know, telephone lines traverse miles of open country to a distant house connexion, so it is possible for some unauthorized person to tap the line without the knowledge of the subscriber or the owner of the land. Indeed, the owner may be 12,000 miles away, on a visit to the Mother Country, and can have no knowledge of what has been done. This shifting of the burden of proof in connexion with the misdeeds of a third individual, is, in the opinion of the committee, an undue interference with the liberty of the subject. The fourth case to which I shall refer,  and that briefly, relates to the censorship of cinematograph films. Three years ago in this chamber,  Sir Hal  Colebatch dealt with this matter and, so far as I know, nothing has been achieved, although attempts may have been made, to ensure that control of cinematograph films should be vested in the Commonwealth. I have as high a regard as any other honorable senator for the rights of the States but there are certain matters which, I consider, should obviously be under Commonwealth control. Wireless broadcasting is one, and aviation another. 
It is, I think, highly desirable that the Constitution should be amended in such a way as to make it clear that the Commonwealth has complete control of films, aviation and wireless broadcasting. These important matters should not be left in abeyance. Speaking on this subject in the Senate on the 28th September, 1932,  Senator Sir Hal  Colebatch, in presenting the first report, of the committee, quoted this passage - 
Your committee would direct attention to the unanimous recommendation of the Royal Commission on the Constitution that the words " cinematograph films " should be inserted as a new paragraph in section 51 of the Constitution in order to give to the Commonwealth Parliament power to pass laws in regard to films made in Australia as well as those imported. 
I cordially endorse that opinion. The report goes on to state - 
Pending the taking of action to amend the Constitution or the reference of the subject to the Commonwealth Parliament by the State Parliaments, your committee would submit the following resolution for the consideration of the Senate: - "" That in the opinion of the Senate the time has arrived when public policy in regard to the censorship of imported cinematograph films should be set out in substantive legislation." 

 Senator Sir Hal Colebatch also made this quotation from the report of the committee - 
Apart from the important principle involved in this recommendation, your committee is of the opinion that the passing of satisfactory legislation governing the censorship of imported cinematograph films would afford the strongest possible inducement to the State parliaments to refer &gt; the subject of film censorship generally to the Commonwealth Parliament, thereby making it possible to achieve a highly desirable end without the delay that would be occasioned by an amendment of the Constitution. 
In other words, he suggested that the Commonwealth Parliament should pass an act which would so satisfy the States that they might be prepared to give general power in these matters to the Commonwealth. Unfortunately, this has not been done and no legislation has been framed for the control of aviation or broadcasting. These important questions have not been submitted to the people for an expression of their opinion. 
I am aware that the subjects mentioned have been discussed at conferences of Commonwealth and State Ministers for some years past, but nothing has been done. The reports of these conferences usually contain some such statement as the following : " This matter was referred back for consideration at a later meeting." 
Has the Commonwealth taken any action? 
Was there any agreement that these matters should be controlled by the Commonwealth ? 
Surely, in that event, the Commonwealth could either have brought in a bill in accordance with the agreement - if there had to be agreement by both the Commonwealth and the State Parliaments - or referred the matter to the people at a referendum. 
Perhaps I may be allowed to depart a little from my duty as Chairman of the Committee and express my personal opinion, that the States should not be allowed to use these important matters as subjects for bargaining. These things should be determined on their merits. Obviously, the questions which I have mentioned cannot be dealt with by any one State. If the Commonwealth cannot agree with the States regarding the control of these things, the sooner it makes up its mind to hold a referendum of the people, to determine whether these matters should be controlled by the Commonwealth in the future, the better it will be for the Constitution, and for every one concerned, for there will then be for the first time a responsible body to deal with these matters. 
I have nothing further to say on the report, except to express the hope that honorable senators will give it fair consideration. The committee was faced with a difficult problem by reason of the fact - which I shall not over emphasize - that there appeared to be instances in which the strict law had not been complied with. It did not seem to the committee that it was the duty of any of its members, or of any private member of the Senate, to rise in his place and move that a number of regulations which did not appear to be watertight should be disallowed. The members of the committee think that in dealing with regulations they are discharging a duty on behalf of the Parliament, and are entitled to the support of the Government. If their action is either illegal or incorrect, that fact will, no doubt, be pointed out to them, but they are of opinion that so long as their recommendations come within the province of the committee, and are sound, the responsibility for the proper maintenance of the law is not with the committee. They hold the view that any errors which might have been made inadvertently should be rectified by the Government, and not by the isolated action of any individual, whether a member of the committee or not. I commend the report to the consideration of honorable senators. It was not produced without careful thought and much work. The committee is strictly non-partisan, and has acted solely with the object of carrying out the important duties entrusted to it by the Senate. 
[8.21].- The Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances has done, and is doing, most useful work. In the remarks I have to make on this motion I hope that it will not be thought that there is any lack of appreciation on my part, or on the part of the Government, of the way in which the committee is carrying out a thankless but important task. Knowing the number of regulations which are issued from time to time, I realize that the duties of the committee are onerous, and that its members cannot expect much limelight on the useful work that they are doing. 
The present report, however, introduces a subject which I feel should not pass without discussion. I trust that any remarks which I shall make will not be regarded as being in any sense a reflection on the work of the committee, but because this committee is of comparatively recent appointment, I think that it is wise to deal with certain aspects of its report, so that in its future work it may proceed along proper lines. 
I suggest that the committee's report falls into two categories. In order to illustrate what I mean by that statement. I direct the attention of the Senate to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the report - 
The motion for disallowance of Statutory Rules 1935, No. 29 (Amendments of the Dried Fruits Export Control Regulations), moved by  Senator J.  G. Duncan-Hughes in his personal capacity in the Senate on 22nd October, 1935, and carried, was moved by him with the unanimous prior endorsement and approval of the members of the committee 
The principle in the disallowed regulations is an important one, as in the committee's opinion they were in direct contravention of the law as laid down in the Acts Interpretation Act 1904-1934, and as decided by the High Court in the case of the Broadcasting Company of Australia Limited  v.  the Commonwealth. (52 C.L.R. 52), to the effect that regulations containing a provision that they should be deemed to have commenced on a certain date, which was prior to the date of notification in the  Gazette,  were void. The Senate, by its vote endorsed the committees view. 
Among the 1935 regulations considered by the committee recently are the following, each of which appears to infringe the provisions of the Acts Interpretation Act by a retrospective clause of a similar type: - 
Here follow a number of statutory rules. In paragraphs 5 and 6 the committee goes on to say - 
The committee considers that these regulations are void or voidable, in whole or in part, and would be held so to be if contested in the courts, in view of the decision of the High Court mentioned above. In some of the statutory rules enumerated above the retrospective regulations appear to be separable from other regulations to which they have no reference. 
In such circumstances, and especially considering the large number of the regulations affected, the question of procedure becomes important. The committee is of opinion that it should not be the duty of its members or of other private members of the Senate to move for the disallowance of these regulations one by one, thereby throwing the responsibility on them and also involving much unnecessary waste of the Senate's time. The duty of seeing that the law is complied with obviously falls on the Government, one of whoso members admitted in the Senate that in his opinion the retrospective provision in Statutory Rules No. 29 was invalid. 
I separate those paragraphs from the other portions of the report for the reason that in paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 the committee is exercising its duties in what appears to be a proper manner, whereas in the paragraphs which I have read, it obviously is taking upon itself the functions of a court in that it makes a declaration as to the legality or otherwise of certain regulations. I submit that the committee was not appointed for that purpose. I go further, and say that it is not competent to act in that capacity. It is important to consider the constitution of the committee. In mentioning this subject I make no reflection on its members. The committee consists of Senators Abbott, Brown, Collett, Cooper, Duncan-Hughes, J. V. MacDonald, and McLeay.  Senator DuncanHughes,  who is the  chairman  of the committee, is a lawyer, as is also  Senator Abbott. 
  Senator Sir GEORGE  PEARCE.The other members of the committee are laymen, and I suggest that it is somewhat hazardous for a committee of laymen to proceed to expound the law. Further, I suggest that it is somewhat rash for the Senate to proceed to endorse the opinion of a -committee of laymen in regard to the law.' While it may be that in the case of the particular regulations which are referred to, no serious consequences would ensue from their being declared invalid, it surely is not the function of a committee of laymen to determine that point. The proper authority to determine the validity or otherwise of a regulation is a competent court. Any person who feels aggrieved by the regulations may contest their validity in the appropriate court. Any citizen may take action to have a regulation declared invalid. The Senate would be stultifying itself if, on the advice of a committee of laymen, it made a pronouncement that certain regulations are invalid. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. Any senator may move for the disallowance of a regulation, on any ground that he thinks fit. That is the course contemplated by the Acts Interpretation Act, which gives power to each House of the Parliament to disallow a regulation. The Standing Orders of the Senate recognize that power, and in order that no member of the Senate shall be prevented from exercising it, they actually give a motion for disallowance precedence over all other business. Parliament has laid down the procedure which should be followed to disallow a regulation; but Parliament never contemplated that a regulation should be declared to be invalid by a committee of its own appointment. If Parliament intended that to be done, it would constitute a committee of gentlemen with legal training. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That may be so; but they at least have had some legal training. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.My point is that the committee expresses a legal opinion when it says that certain regulations are void or voidable. In my opinion, the committee is not competent to say that. 
I remind the honorable senator that, like the committee, the Senate is composed of laymen. Before dealing with the specific matters included in the report, it seems to me that honorable senators should be quite clear as to what would be involved in the carrying of the motion for the adoption of the report. Under Standing Order 36a which deals with the appointment of the Standing Committee, it is provided that any action necessary, arising from a report of the committee, is to be taken in the Senate on motion after notice. The Senate is now being asked simply to adopt in detail the report of the committee - a report which, for the most part, contains expressions of opinion merely, and not concrete recommendations which could form the subject of specific motions in the Senate. The question arises whether the Senate should go the length of adopting in their entirety the views of the committee - views which, in some instances, raise contentious legal points. 
In paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, the committee has given expression to legal opinions as to the validity or otherwise of certain statutory rules. In paragraph 3, in particular, there are specified twelve statutory rules which appear to the committee to infringe the Acts Interpretation Act by reason of the inclusion therein of a retrospective provision. The committee, in venturing an opinion as to the retrospectivity of the statutory rules mentioned in paragraph 3, has, it is feared, assumed an interpretative function which should not be undertaken lightly. In a matter such as this, which depends largely upon the interpretation of statutes in the light of decisions of the courts, it seems that the committee would be embarking on a task ill-suited for a body consisting principally of laymen if it continued to offer opinions as to the legality or otherwise of regulations or ordinances laid before it. The report of the Standing Committee, as is proper, receives due publicity, but it cannot be in the public interest to express opinions on the validity of regulations when the effect may be to envelop in a cloud of doubt regulations which, on consideration by a court of law, may be found to be perfectly in order. If objection can be taken to the action of -the committee, which, I freely admit, has specially directed its mind to the terms of the individual statutory rules upon which it has reported, how much greater is the objection to be taken to this Senate adopting the report in its entirety unless, indeed, it also scrutinizes each separate regulation impugned. But, even if it did undertake such scrutiny, the Senate would, if it adopted the report, arrogate to itself functions of the 'Courts - functions which, I venture to suggest, it is neither fitted for nor expected to perform. You, yourself,  Mr. President,  would hesitate to undertake the duty of deciding on the constitutionality of a measure before the Senate.  Sir Richard  Baker laid down a rule which, I think, should apply equally to this Senate, as to the functions of a  President  of the Senate in dealing with questions as to the constitutionality of measures before the Senate. He is reported in  Hansard,  volume xxxv., page 5967, as having said - 
It does not seem to me that I should, from the chair, undertake the responsibility of interpreting all the provisions of the Constitution. The Constitution itself has provided for a tribunal, the High Court, which, after argument and consideration, such as would be impossible and undesirable in this Senate, is empowered to finally determine its meaning in most of the cases which will arise. 
These words are equally applicable to legislation purporting to be passed -in pursuance of the Constitution. If you,  Mr. President,  were asked by the Senate to pass judgment as to the legality or otherwise of a bill before the Senate you would, I feel sure, take up an attitude similar to that adopted by  Sir Richard  Baker in the instance to which I have just referred. It would be a grave mistake for the Senate to engage on the task of examining the legality of statutory rules laid before it. Further, the adoption of this report would be nothing less than an expression of the opinion of the Senate that the statutory rules referred to in it are void or voidable in law. If we reflect for a moment on our qualifications for the task, I feel sure that we must acknowledge that, most of us being laymen, we would be engaging in a very undesirable task - a task more properly to be performed by a court. I urge on honorable senators the desirableness of leaving this function to the tribunal which the Constitution has pointed out as best qualified to perform it, namely, the High Court. This can be done by rejecting the motion. The committee submits that the Government should withdraw and cancel such of the regulations set out in . paragraph 3 of the report as are invalid; alternatively, that it should move in the Senate for their disallowance within the prescribed time. The first course would not at this stage have the effect which the committee has in mind. If the provisions are invalid, then the repeal thereof would not effect anything from the legal point of view, because the repeal could not be ante-dated in view of section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act. With regard to the suggestion that the Government should move for the disallowance of the regulations in question, I do not think that it can be seriously contended that a government responsible for the making of regulations should itself make use of the power of disallowance. This is a right which can He more properly exercised by an individual senator. 
I have said that, in my opinion, this report is divisable into two parts. The comments which I have just made deal with those sections of the report which I read. When I received a copy of this report I sent it to the Attorney-General for his consideration, as it raises important questions which the AttorneyGeneral has had under consideration and upon which he is proposing that certain action be taken by the Cabinet. This matter is now before the Cabinet; a decision has not yet been reached. Before concluding my remarks on this motion, I wish to be able to tell honorable senators what action the Government proposes to take on the committee's report. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No possible exception could be taken to the second portion of the report. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I do not think so. I think it is competent for a body of laymen to deal with such a matter. 
The matters dealt with in clauses 8, 9 and 10 seem to come within the function of the committee, and it is upon those and other parts of the report that the Attorney-General has submitted his report. In order to be able to inform honorable senators of the action to be taken by Cabinet, I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 
[8.40]. - It is axiomatic that any motion directed towards the promotion of peace among the nations of the world must commend itself to the sympathetic consideration of honorable senators.  Senator Macartney  Abbott has broken new ground in submitting this motion, and he is to be congratulated on the interest he has displayed in the subject and on his action in bringing it before the Senate. Before we commit ourselves to this motion, however, we have to ascertain its value to achieve the purpose to which it is directed. A common language would probably lead to a better understanding between the peoples of the world but one would be extremely optimistic to take the view that a common language of itself would necessarily bring about international peace. If we look back on history, certain events immediately spring to mind. For instance, we readily recall the terrible American civil war. At that time, the population of the United States of America was much more Anglo-Saxon than it is to-day, and I think it is correct to say that the language almost generally in use was English. But, notwithstanding the fact that the American people had a common language and practically a common religion  and common ideals, a great fratricidal conflict occurred. Also, we recall the civil war in England* in the time of Charles I. There is no doubt that, at that time, the English people had a common language. These two examples from the history of our own race should prevent us from being unduly optimistic and assuming that the adoption of a common language among people of different races and holding different ideals will necessarily make for international peace. Of course, this is not a fatal objection to the promulgation of the idea embodied in the motion. However, I have to speak, not in my own behalf, but on behalf of the Government. This motion, if agreed to, will commit the Government to a  certain  course of action. I recall remarks made to me by the late  Senator E.  D. Millen on his return from Geneva where he bad attended the Assembly of the League of Nations. He had an extremely critical mind, and when I asked him for his impressions of the League, he told me that he thought those directly connected with the League were too idealistic, that they refused to come down to earth, and that they did not pay sufficient regard to practical things. The Government feels that any proposition it places before the League of Nations should have the support of educated public opinion, and that it should not do anything which might make the League appear to be merely a debating society. Public opinion has first to be formed amongst the nations themselves, and the Government's view is that before attempting to obtain international action it should have the support of the Australian people. Even  Senator Abbott  will agree that up to the present there is no definite public opinion in Australia upon this subject. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No one can say that so far public opinion in Australia has been educated as to the need or desirableness of the course of action he suggests. While the Government is particularly sympathetic towards the ideal expressed in the motion, it feels that it would be premature to place the subject upon the agenda of the League of Nations at this juncture. The Government feels that there should be more education on the subject in Australia, and I think that through the press and by other means the honorable senator himself is doing good work in that direction. 
I happen to be one of those who believe that it is time, that as a Parliament, we did something definite in the direction of creating an atmosphere of peace amongst the people of this country. We are apt - and some honorable senators are very glib whenever the opportunity occurs - to create an opposite atmosphere. Some of us sometimes have diffidence in approaching the subject of peace because when we do so we are charged with being unpatriotic, particularly when we are opposed to voting huge sums of money to purchase guns to blow human beings into eternity. An opportunity is now presented to do something in the opposite direction. When speaking in this chamber on another subject I said that it was time the Commonwealth established a peace council instead of a defence council, and that the time had arrived to appoint a Minister for peace instead of a Minister for defence. I know that these sentiments are more or less unpopular. Are we the leaders of the people or are we to be like a celebrated leader who said: " There go my people ; I must follow them because I am their leader ". Here is a splendid opportunity to give the people a lead. 
The honorable senator is not likely to lead me off the track in that smooth and easy way, because I do not intend to follow him. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  is incorrect in suggesting that there is little public opinion on this subject, because for the last 20 years I have been connected with an Esperanto society in Queensland. I understand that there are branches of the esperanto organization not only in every otherState of the Commonwealth, but also in almost every civilized country. Scholars are communicating in esperanto with the scholars in many other countries, some of whose ideals are far removed from those of the British race. Already there is a more or less appreciable volume of public opinion on this subject. Some one should give the public a lead, and if that lead is given I believe the people will be eager to follow. The Leader of the Senate alluded to the difficulties which arose in the time of Charles I., over 300 years ago, and then he brought us nearer to present day affairs by referring to the American Civil War which occurred 70 years ago. Does not the right honorable gentleman realize that in the last 70 years there has been a change in public opinion? Does he not realize that from 1914 to 1918 there was the most disastrous war in history, and that at that time practically every leader of the church in this and in other coun tries involved, including Australia, was in favour of war? 
SenatorFoll. - What power had they to do anything else? 
The point I wish to make is that in the last seventeen years the whole attitude of the churches - representing not a negligible portion of the community - has changed completely. Their leaders are now opposed to war, and take every possible action to prevent it. 
The churches were recruiting agents in this country. Practically every dignitary of every church favoured it. 
It is near enough; there may have been some honorable exceptions. I am sure that if another international conflict occurs there will not be so many white feathers in circulation as there were between 1914 and 1918, because a decided change has come over the people. The Great War brought home to the people of the countries involved what war really means. The objection of the 'Government to the action proposed is not because of the sentiment embodied in the proposal, but because it believes that there should be a greater volume of public opinion in Australia behind this proposal before this Parliament recommends that action should be taken by the League of Nations. It would be a wonderful achievement if this motion, containing real evidence of a practical step being taken in the interests of universal peace, were transmitted from Australia to Geneva with the imprimatur of the Commonwealth Parliament upon it. In the absence of any great volume of public opinion behind it the proposal may be laughed out of court, but I am sure thata great many delegates will support it. If it is not considered seriously by the League of Nations Assembly and nothing is done for a time it can be postponed for consideration later. That would not bring Australia into disrepute, but would raise it in the estimation of sensible people. They would see that we were anxious to prevent the possibility of another cataclysm, such  as that through, which the world passed a Hew years ago. The Leader of the Senate said that  Senator Abbott  deserves the thanks of the Senate for the trouble he has taken in submitting this motion. The honorable' senator asks not for thanks but for action. He has already performed some fine propaganda work in connexion with this ideal, but believing that something practical is essential, he has now brought the matter before the Senate, of which he is a distinguished member, and  asks  for our support. I trust that the 'Senate will accord the motion the support which the mover is entitled to expect. I remind honorable senators that every achievement of value to the community is some one's dream come true. I do not see any reason why we should be the least hesitant about encouraging  Senator Abbott  and those who think with him to go right ahead with their proposal. Tt has been said that every great business is but the lengthened shadow of one man, and every great thought it but the lengthened shadow of the thinker, and the thought presages subsequent action. The thought is not only present in the motion made by  Senator Abbott;  it is present everywhere in the community, and is actually waiting an opportunity to become articulate in those circles where at present it is not articulate, and even where the opposite sentiment, perhaps, is reigning. I hope that the Senate will endorse this motion, and transmit it on a wave of enthusiasm and unanimity to the Prime Minister. 
When I read the terms of the motion, and realized the ideal that lay behind the words, I felt confident that, when the matter came up for debate in the Senate, it would meet with unanimous approval, and that immediate action would be taken to commence a movement that will reach fulfilment through the proper instrument, the League of Nations. I listened most carefully to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  and I dissent from his statement that it is not the Government's intention or duty to take the matter before the League of Nations until a public opinion in Australia has been formed. It should not be necessary for a government or for a leader to wait for public opinion. If a person honestly believes that an ideal is worth while, he will march toward it, irrespective of public opinion, hoping that the public will follow. 
Having regard to the ideal expressed in the motion, I believe that no harm, but only good, can accrue from action by the Government, and it is my sincere hope that, instead of bringing this motion to an issue to-night, the debate will be adjourned, so that the Government may have time to reconsider the motion, and all its implications, and reverse the decision which  Senator Pearce  conveyed to the Senate to-night. I trust that the motion will not be withdrawn, and that we shall not have to divide on it. The issue is so far-reaching that we should not deal with it on party lines.  Senator Sampson  referred, by interjection, to the Tower of Babel. A passage in the Book of Genesis is particularly interesting in relation to the ideal expressed in  Senator Abbott's  motion - 
And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech. 
And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of  Shinar,  and they dwelt there. 
And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for  morter 
And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. 
And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the children of men  builded. 
And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do. 
Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. 
What is the lesson conveyed by that passage? It is that co-ordination of action was not possible once there was a confusion of tongues. Modern counterparts of the Tower of Babel are to be found throughout the world. Where a country or an alleged nation is divided by dialects, as in China, there is always found a lack of unity and understanding, whereas, in a country with a common language, the tendency is towards a common understanding, unity, and cooperation. The manner in which the nations are separated by linguistic barriers is strikingly demonstrated when one tunes in on a short-wave wireless set to various parts of the world. One may make contact with Moscow, Berlin, or Paris, but, not being able to understand their language, cannot benefit by their culture and thought. When a proposal is brought forward to smash the barrier of language, it is the solemn duty of every honorable senator to support it to the last degree. I could mention many practical instances of the barrier formed by the multiplicity of languages. I could cite the advertisements of commercial firms in Japan and China; I can unwrap a product of some foreign country and find translations in various languages of the descriptions accompanying. But the most striking modern example of the Tower of Babel  is  the League of Nations. A frank delegate to the Assembly will inform an inquirer that one of the difficulties at Geneva is, not to interpret words, but to understand the motive behind them. The speeches are translated into various languages; but the delegates lose the sentiment and emotions of the  speaker,  and the speeches are therefore colorless. Thus the oratory is without force, except for a limited number of speakers; the expressions of the face are the only guide to the majority of listeners. 
I frankly admit that this is a longrange project; the objective is far from realization. It may not become a reality in my time. But if the motion provides an opportuunity to lay a foundation upon which may be built universal goodwill and understanding, we should not wait for the public of Australia to endorse it; we should go ahead on our own initiative. 
I support  Senator Abbott  in what may be considered a somewhat visionary and idealistic proposal in a world of practical realism. Often, the idealist is discouraged. It is said that his dreams will never crystalize into real and material benefits to mankind. I do not suppose that there was ever a visionary in history who was not scoffed at and derided. He is a prophet who looks to a far off land, which is never to be reached. But the time is fast arriving when there shall be a common language known to all the peoples of the earth and giving them a common relationship. Notwithstanding differences of colour and creed, when we come close to one another and understand each other better, we realize we all belong to the common family of humanity. I read recently  'The Vision of the Things to Come, a  book written by H. G. Wells, a great thinker and one of the greatest visionaries as well as one of the greatest fundamentalists that the English-speaking people has produced. Surveying modern economic tendencies, he foresees the breaking down of all national barriers, and the building up of one common humanity. I see nothing wrong in the suggestion that we should despatch this motion to the League of Nations. It is a most admirably constituted body to deal with such a matter. The League of Nations was founded to bring about peace between the peoples of the earth, and international communication and understanding of each other's ideals are among the basic essentials of peace. For that ideal to be brought into practical being, a common vehicle of communication between the various peoples must be introduced. There should be a common literature. We should be able to read the great literature of the world not only in English, French, Russian and German, but also in a common language in which men of all nations can express themselves. I believe that, although  Senator Abbott's  motion might not run the gauntlet of this Senate, the day is coming when the League of Nations will- discuss this problem. If Australia does not take the initiative, some other country will urge before the League that a common vehicle in which understanding can be transmitted from one country to another, so that each might understand the other's sentiments, should be introduced. It is true, as  Senator Pearce  stated, that in the United States of America, where English is the predominant language, a civil war was waged 70 years ago, but then, civil wars 'have broken out elsewhere - in Soviet Russia and, more recently, in Greece, for example. The occurrence of  civil wars is not an argument against this proposal to bring the people of all nations into closer communication by what  Senator Abbott  has termed an international thought exchange. 
This topic will be discussed again by the League of Nations.  Senator Abbott  has just handed to me this note - 
You are, of course, aware that thu question of an auxiliary international language has already been considered by the Auxiliary International Committee of the League and negatived, partly owing to the .fear of laying itself open to a charge of '.' arrogating authority "  vide  page 320 " Ten Years of World Co-operation " issued by the Secretariat of the League of Nations. 
I propose now to say a few words on behalf of a vehicle of language which might easily be adopted by the various peoples of the world. I refer to "Basic English ". Very little is known about it in Australia, although it has considerable vogue in Great Britain, and has spread widely on the continent and throughout the Orient. I quote the following from an article which appeared in a recent issue of an American newspaper: - 
Unlike Esperanto and many other unnatural systems which the invention of men has put forward, basic English is a readymade and living language. It is, in fact, English; and while not quite the English of the library, being much simpler, it is still true English and clear enough for any purpose. Basic English is the name which its friends give it. They have gone through the word book with a small-tooth comb, taking out great masses of words as unimportant and unnecessary. They have kept 850 words only. You may place them all on a sheet of notepaper. This selection gives us a language which takes only a short time in the learning and in the narrow limits of 'what it is possible to put across any every-day thought that may come to mind. 
The trick may seem a little hard to do at the start, but a person quickly gets the idea. By way of example, this discussion down to here, is in basic English. 
The paragraphs which I have read clearly prove that, although concise, basic English is adequate for the expression of human thought. The writer of the article adds - 
The chief sponsor of this newest international language, is C. K. Ogden, of Magdalene College, Cambridge, England, Director of the  Orthological  Institute at Cambridge. Co-operating with him are leading scholars the world over. Basic English has been in process of development and trial for ten year3, and is now studied and used by groups' in lands as far apart as Japan, Mexico, Iceland, and Czechoslovakia. " We find fully 1,500 languages acting as barriers to world understanding," says  Mr. Ogden.  " Though Russian is given as the language of 150,000,000 people, there are twenty distinct language groups in the Soviet Republic. China contains hundreds of dialects that differ as widely as Spanish and Dutch. In India there are 200 native tongues. It must be clear that one of the greatest needs of humanity to-day is an auxiliary language understandable in all lands. Such a language would be the best internationalizer.  " While a hundred artificial languages have been proposed in the past, there is now only one, Esperanto, and it has relatively few adherents. All of these innovations have been synthetic. Not one has the advantage of taking off from the solid ground of a living language. English, on the other hand, is already the language, natural and governmental, of 500.000,000 people. Ten years ago some of us saw that if it was only made simple enough, it might become the international speech for trade, for science, and for all other purposes." 
Here, then, we have to our hand an appropriate vehicle which makes possible a  common understanding between all nations. At least 500,000,000 people have a rudimentary, and approximately 180,000,000 people a fairly intimate understanding of the language. 
It has been suggested that the Japanese people will not take kindly to it. 
The Japanese, I understand, have difficulty with words that do not end with a vowel, but it is encouraging to know that many societies in J apan are urging the adoption ' of "Basic English" as an auxiliary language for the Japanese people. English, to a large extent, is being taught throughout the Japanese school system. In a remarkable little work entitled  Debabelization,  which is apropos  Senator Hardy's  reference to the Tower of Babel.  Mr. Ogden,  the author of  Basic English,  makes a comprehensive survey of contemporary opinion on the problem of an international language, and states that by " debabelization " the world will eventually be brought back to a common understanding of major problems. The principal languages of the world are set out in the following table which appears in Whittaker's  Almanac  for 1929 - 

<graphic href="148332193511283_38_0.jpg"></graphic>

It should be noted that at least 500,000,000 people have a rudimentary knowledge or come under the influence of the English language, so the adoption of " Basic English ", which is founded on 850 of the easiest words in the language, would be the quintessence of simplicity. What is more beautiful than the simple language of the Old and New Testament, the Book of Common Prayer, Bunyan's  Pilgrim's Progress  and Defoe's  Robinson Crusoe.  These it has been said, are written in " Tinker's English ". As a matter of fact, they are written in simple English and convey graphic word-pictures. Modern English, it has been said, is more or less a jargon, and lacks much of the beauty which could be conveyed in thoughts expressed in basic English. 

 Senator Abbott, I know, was approached by several people who are interested in this subject, and urged to include in his motion a recommendation that " Basic English " should be the language for the exchange of international thought, but he declined because he did not wish to confuse the issue. There is, of course, the objection that every nation jealously guards the purity of its language in which are preserved the songs of folk-lore and cherished traditions of race. But the adoption of an international language would not interfere in any way with their desire to preserve their literature and ideals. All that the motion seeks to do is to enlist the sympathy of the League of Nations in a proposal for the adoption of an international language. We are all aware of the existing difficulties due to the absence of a common vehicle for human thought. I doubt that any Australian delegate to the League of Nations - not excepting even University graduates - has had a thorough understanding of French, which is the diplomatic language. Honorable senators are well aware how difficult it is for the average  speaker  to express his thoughts clearly in his mother tongue. This being so, how much more difficult is it for our delegates to the League of Nations to convey their views in words that can be understood by their fellow delegates. In the use of the spoken word there is not only the difficulty to impart, but also the difficulty to receive. The adoption of an international language is, I believe, essential if the League of Nations is to fulfil its true purpose, namely, to be a League of universal peace, working for the improvement of the world and human life in all its aspects. 
The work done by the International Labour Office during the last few years has demonstrated the potential force of the League for the good of mankind. 
Quite recently we have had striking evidence of the influence of the interchange of thought. An Australian delegate who is very well known, has returned to preach a somewhat revolutionary industrial gospel - a reduction of working hours in industry - and, what is more significant, has declared his intention to test his theory in his own industrial undertaking. It is important that there should be a complete understanding between the nations represented in the League, so that advocacy of improved social conditions in one country may not re-act unfavorably upon another. The League of Nations is evolving not only as a League of Peace, but also as a parliament of mankind. Tennyson, I believe, was inspired by prophetic vision when he wrote - 
Till the war-drum throbb'd no longer, and the battle-flags were furl'd, 
In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world. 
It is fitting that the English language in which is enshrined the glorious traditions of the British peoples, and which is the language of the land that was the mother of parliamentary institutions, should become the vehicle for the exchange of international thought. And let Australia, as the youngest of the 
British, dominions, take the initiative in the establishment of an international language. Lot it also be decided that " basic " English, as scientifically devised by Professor Ogden, not merely because it is English, but because of its universality, shall be the common language of all the peoples of the earth. If we do that we shall have gone a great distance along the road towards true liberty, and mankind will be nearer to the realization of its great destiny. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Foll)  adjourned. 
On his return from England recently,  Mr. Butler,  the Premier of South Australia, said that the Australian oranges on sale in the United' Kingdom were of good quality and were highly regarded by British consumers. If a trade in fruit with the United Kingdom is to be established, we must send only the best of our produce. As the Commonwealth Government will pay the bounty, it should see that all the oranges which are exported are properly graded and packed, so that they shall arrive in England in good condition. It should also arrange for the High Commissioner and the several. Agents-General of the States to assist in their disposal. 
South Australia was fortunate in that it received a small share of the New Zealand market for citrus fruits last season. The question has been asked why South Australia enjoyed that privilege and New South Wales did not. The growers of citrus fruit in South Australia believe that New South Wales, by reason of its action in regard to New Zealand potatoes, practically debarred itself . from participation in the citrus fruit trade with that dominion. There is tho further point that the South Australian fruit was probably of better quality. 
I think so. The Government has set aside £20,000 for the payment of this bounty, and as only about 100,000 cases of oranges are likely to be exported, it could afford to be generous and pay a bounty in excess of 2s. a case. The men who are taking the risk in the British market should be assisted to the fullest extent possible. I support the bill. 
I agree with the proposal to pay a bounty on citrus fruits exported, because I know that the citrus industry in New South Wales is in a very unsatisfactory condition. Many of the men engaged in it have experienced difficult times during recent years. Nearly all of our primary industries are receiving some form of assistance, either external or internal, and the time is ripe for the citrus fruit industry to enjoy its modicum of protection. The Minister explained that £3,000 was expended to aid this industry in 1933, and that in 1934 the sum of £10,000 was devoted to that purpose. This bill provides for an export bounty of 2s. a case, which will mean about £20,000 this year. I do not agree with the proposal of  Senator Hardy  that the proposed bounty should be increased to 3s. 6d. a case. 
It would be better to pay a bounty of 2s. a case this year, and if any surplus remains, to pay a higher bounty next year. 
It is high time that the citrus industry in Australia was established on a cooperative basis, as it is in California. The growth of the citrus industry there i3 one of the greatest examples of the benefits of co-operation that could be found. Probably no other society in the world excels the remarkable co-operative organization which deals with citrus fruits in California. 
No; but I do know that the growth of the citrus industry in the United States of America, particularly in the western States, has been remarkable. The  Year-Booh of Agriculture  for the United States of America shows that, whereas' in 1899 about 6,000,000 boxes of oranges, 30,000 boxes of grape fruit, aud 900,000 boxes of lemons were shipped from California and Florida, in 1930 the quantities sent to market were respectively 48,000,000 boxes, 14,000,000 boxes and 7,000,000 boxes. Those figures show the abnormal growth of the industry, and demonstrate the value of a campaign of publicity, and a fully developed system of producer cooperative control. The growers of citrus fruits in California embarked on one of the greatest publicity campaigns in history. That their efforts were successful the figures which I have given demonstrate clearly. Australian growers of citrus fruits should follow their example, not only in relation to the marketing of their product and the production of high grade fruit3, but also in the utilization of by-products. The proper utilization of the by-products of citrus fruits grown in California has had the effect of stabilizing the market, as the following extract shows : - 
A  co-operative  by-product industry can go a long way towards stabilizing markets at any time, but in year*; of over-production, it becomes the only salvation of the grower. A striking illustration of this took place in 1927 in the lemon industry. With the consumption in the United States of America, and Canada of loss than 15,000 car-loads, all but 2,000 of which came from California., the lemongrowers of that State wore faced with the problem of disposing of 0,000 additional carloads. Not only was this amount of fruit, 78.000 tons, handled by their by-product company with a satisfactory return to the growers, but nearly 1.3,000 car-loads were marketed, with a gross return exceeded but once in the history of their co-operative enterprise. Had 1,000 car-loads of the fruit which was turned into by-products been placed on the market, the crop would probably have yielded one of the poorest returns on record. 
They are many. The following extract from the same publication shows what can be done with an over-production of citrus fruits: - 
This fruit was converted into citrate of lime (from which citric acid is produced), essential oil of lemon and oil of orange. Citric acid is used in beverages, soda water syrups, effervescent salts and citrate of magnesia. The consumption is about 6,000,000 to 8,000,000 lb. per annum of which about 20 to 25 per cent, is supplied by citrus bi-'products operators. Most of it is imported from Italy. 
It is remarkable that within the last five years Australia has imported from the 
United Kingdom, India, Italy, the Netherlands, the United States of America and other countries essential oils extracted from the lemon valued at £10,982, and oils extracted from the orange valued at £3,079. I have not been able to ascertain the value of imports of citric acids into Australia, but I believe it stands somewhere in the region of £15,000 per annum. Not only are citric acids being produced from the lemon and the orange, but thanks to modern synthetic chemistry cream of tartar is also extracted from fruits, it being, I understand, a by-product of the grape. This extract is used in every household throughout the Commonwealth and, I suppose, our importations of it would amount to hundreds of tons valued at many thousands of pounds. I believe that if we study these matters seriously we shall solve not only the problem of marketing in the citrus industry, but also the problem of surplus production. Fruit which, because of poor quality, must now be sold at any price, if at all, can be used in the manufacture of essential oils and acids which are so largely used in the preparation of non-alcoholic beverages, and also in foodstuffs such as cakes, &amp;c. Pectin, which is produced from the white skin of the orange when peeled, is the jellying material which is used principally in the manufacture of jams to replace a deficiency in berry fruits, and, I understand, it is imported in fairly large quantities. But to-day large quantities of fruit of inferior quality are simply thrown on the dirt heap. This secondary production could be undertaken by cooperative enterprise. The Government should help not only to put the citrus industry itself on a sound basis, but also to establish an industry to handle valuable citrus by-products. In all of our large cities and even in most of our smaller towns it will be found that fruit juice is being sold to-day in place of the old cordials which were made largely from synthetic flavourings. Although I have not taken out details I am certain that the value of the synthetic flavourings imported into Australia still amounts to thousands of pounds per annum. In passing, I point out that some flavourings are made from ordinary coal; vanilla for instance is not  made from the plant but from coal. To-day nearly all flavourings are made synthetically but they' are not so palatable or so beneficial to health as are natural fruit juices. I hope the Government will give-this matter the fullest consideration. The consumption of natural fruit juices has increased enormously in Australia during the last few years, and I hope to see it increase still further. In fact I would like to see a form of taxation instituted with the object of forcing synthetic flavourings off the market in favour of the natural juices. If this were done the consumption of natural juices would help to overcome the difficulties of fruitgrowers in times of surplus production. The juice could even be stored as is done in America where it is kept in a frozen state and not put up for sale until a favourable market is available. The time has come when Australia must adopt scientific marketing, but let us do this job properly. We have to tackle this problem in respect not only of the citrus industry but also all primary products including wheat and wool.  Senator Abbott  said that the wool industry is all right and that it looks after itself. That is so, but I remind the honorable senator that the actual freight charges on wool to-day are very low indeed, in comparison with other items in the cost of production. I do not object to these concessions. The Government has instituted better marketing methods in respect of wheat, meat, and dried fruits. To-day, almost every section of primary industry, such as the butter, sugar, wheat, meat and fruit industries, has to be carefully looked after by the Government in one way or another. Perhaps this development is a natural result of the evolution of industry; perhaps it is due to the intensive development of what is known as economic nationalism, under which each nation now endeavours to grow his own food-stuffs and make itself, in that respect, independent of other countries. Australia also will have to re-orientate its internal economic system. I hope to deal with this matter more fully on a future occasion. Whilst I agree wholeheartedly with this measure, I hope the time will soon arrive when this Government will assist in the establishment of an industry for the treatment of citrus by-products, and so help to  solve  the great problems confronting the industry. If we do this we shall at least be moving in the right direction, and shall give those engaged in the industry a chance to make a decent living. Some growers to-day are in a parlous position. The problems of the industry can be overcome only by instituting orderly marketing and by encouraging cooperative efforts within the industry in order that the last penny may be got out of citrus products. 
 in reply  - I waa glad to hear the statements made by many honorable senators in this debate, particularly those of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  I recognize that he is in a peculiar position. He cannot oppose this measure because he has to pay due regard to the electorate, and he cannot support it, because by so doing he would admit that this Government has done something good; he would be very loth to make that concession. But, placed in such a dilemma, he elects to sit on the latter horn and cover it with a cushion by saying that he can rejoice in the measure because this Government is in favour of certain planks of his party's platform, and because the measure reveals that private enterprise in this industry has broken down. I point out that so far as this bill is concerned any interference with private enterprise is limited to the provisions, which the Commonwealth may exercise under its powers over exports, to deal with the condition in which fruit shall be exported. 
There is no other agency to control exports except the Commonwealth. Therefore it is the only power which can prescribe the nature of the goods to be exported.  Senator Allan  MacDonald referred to the inspection of exports. This is carried out by State officers on behalf of the Commonwealth and, so far as the Commonwealth is concerned, is based on exactly the same principles as the inspection of all other articles the export of which is controlled by the Commonwealth. The States have, in some respects, wider powers of ins;ection  than the Commonwealth, because their officers can inspect fruit all the way from the tree to the wharf. The Commonwealth takes what precautions it can to ensure that fruit and any other primary commodity shipped is despatched in a condition which meets the requirements of the law; but as it is impossible for an inspection to be made of every orange, every pound of butter, or every egg, the Commonwealth is limited to this extent in the methods of inspection which it has instituted.  .Senator Payne  asked what was the export season for the citrus industry. This last3 from April to November, the fruit arriving in London from May up to December. Very little arrives in London in May or June ; the greater part arrives there from late in June up to December. For the information of honorable senators I have had details of the prices compiled. The market in the United Kingdom was not so good this year as it was last year, but this year Australian fruit realized better prices relatively to the general market levels, than last year. Although the general market prices this year were less than they were last year; the prices realized by Australian fruit were as high as those we secured last year. . That point should be considered in conjunction with some remarks I made in moving the second reading of the bill, when possibly I may have conveyed a wrong impression. 
How does tlie Australian price compare with the Brazilian price? 
The Leader of the Country party in the Senate  (Senator Hardy)  suggested that, because the quantity to be exported this year is expected to be only about one-half the quantity anticipated, the whole of the amount provided should be absorbed in paying a bounty on the quantity actually' exported: 
It is true, as  Senator Hardy  said, that the desire of the Government is not so much to place the industry on a permanent basis as to assist the citrusgrowers to do so. The assistance being provided will, it is hoped, do something towards achieving that desirable end. As  Senator Arkins  has said, all industries, with one notable exception, have claimed governmental assistance, and it was only to be expected that the citrus fruitgrowers would join with others in asking for the Government's help. The Government looks forward to the day when primary industries will be able to support themselves; but it realizes that the world has passed through a crisis such as has never been experienced previously, and that primary producers have suffered serious inconvenience and loss. The Government, consisting of intelligent persons with flexible minds, were able to adjust themselves to presentday circumstanc.es; it realizes that it is necessary to assist primary industries in this and in other ways. In normal times such assistance would not have been sought, or granted. Those engaged in the citrus fruit industry have been informed that they should arrange for the proper organization of their marketing arrangements; but, so far, they have not responded to the Government's suggestion. The Government looks forward to the day when, as a result of the benefit they are now receiving, the growers will do more than they have done to assist themselves. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 - ( 1 .  ) The bounty shall be payable in respect nf- (b)..... navel oranges exported from the Commonwealth tothe United Kingdom . . . which were picked, handled, graded and packed in accordance with the conditions set forth in the schedule to this act. 
This clause provides that the bounty shall be payable in respect of two classes of oranges exported during the period commencing the 1st January, 1935, and ending on the 22nd July, 1935. That period has now expired. The clause also provides that the fruit must be of a good merchantable quality at the time of export, and picked, handled, graded or packed in accordance with the conditions set forth in the schedule to this act. The schedule stipulates the conditions under which the fruit shall he shipped, handled and packed; but, if the schedule was not operative during the period mentioned., how can the bounty bo paid on the fruit shipped during that period? 
It was realized that this measure would not be passed before this season's fruit could be shipped. The conditions provided in the schedule were made available, and the citrus fruitgrowers were informed that' the bounty would be paid only on oranges packed in accordance with the conditions set out in the schedule. I move - 
That the words " and packed ", paragraph (b),be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " packed and shipped." 
The State authorities arranged for proper supervision. 
Will the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  explain if the bounty is payable on navel oranges shipped after the 22nd day of July? Oranges grown in some States do not ripen until the end of July, and consequently would not be available for shipment before the date specified in this clause. 
It is stipulated that the bounty shall be paid only on navel oranges exported before the 22nd July, because it has been found that those shipped after that date have not been up to the standard required. So fat as I know, there is no distinction between oranges grown in Western Australia and those produced in the eastern States. The bounty will not bo paid on consignments shipped after the date mentioned. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 12 agreed to. . 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
Would it be possible for the Government to obtain more up-to-date information and statistics upon the subject of national insurance? I have been studying the excellent reports on this matter, the last of which is dated 1928. If the Government could furnish honorable senators with more recent data, it would be of great assistance in enabling them to give this important subject the consideration it deserves. 
[10.21]. - The Government, realizing that these figures should be brought up to date, has, with the consent of the Government of Western Austral;?:.  obtained the services of the State Statistician,   Mr. S.  Bennett, who has been transferred to Canberra for the purpose of collecting such data. Before long, the information should be available to honorable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
On the 23th November,  Senator Badman  asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Commerce the following question,  upon notice: - 
Has the South Australian Premier  (Mr. Butler)  promised the Commonwealth Government that he will introduce legislation in the South Australian Parliament which will be complementary to the bill concerning  the  home consumption price for wheat which the Federal Government has introduced in the Federal Parliament? 
The Minister for Commerce now supplies the following answer :  - 
Yes. The Premier of South Australia has informed the Commonwealth Government of his intention to bring down legislation to  give  effect to the decisions reached at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in October last. 
asked the. Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to the position of farmers who are continuing their farming operations under the supervision of a trustee, appointed in terms of a deed of assignment under Part XI. of the Commonwealth Bankruptcy Act, and who desire to secure assistance or relief under the provisions of the Loan ( Farmers Debt Adjustment) Act 1935? 
Has theGovernment been asked to introduce legislation to permit such farmers to receive assistance under the said act? 
What decision, if any, has been arrived at in this matter? 
-The AttorneyGeneral supplies the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The representations made to the Government on this matter are receiving consideration, but no decision has yet been arrived at. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
With reference to the Treasurer's recent statement that invalid and old-age pensioners arc permitted to earn " a few shillings a week ", will the Minister define the exact amount such pensioners are permitted to earn without reduction of their pensions? 
In order to qualify for an invalid pension a person must be totally and permanently  incapacitated for work. Obviously, if a pensioner is able to work, although he may not be able to earn sufficient to make him ineligible for a pension under the income provisions of the law, he is not incapacitated for work. Cases arise, however, where an invalid pensioner receives a nominal amount for performing light services and the pension is not cancelled. It is not possible to state the amount which is allowed to be received under these conditions.  It  depends entirely on the nature of the service rendered and the circumstances under which the payment is made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a protest made by  Mr. H.  E. Braine, Secretary of the Wheat Pool of Western Australia, against the increase of wheat freights by sea to Great Britain, Europe and China, published in the  West, Australian  of the 8th instant? 
Were these increases (if any) in shipping freights made because the Advisory Committee appointed to make recommendations to the British Government regarding the distribution of the British shipping subsidy had threatened ship-owners with a withdrawal of subsidy unless competition amongst themselves was reduced? 
What steps does the Government intend to take to protect Australian wheat-growers against increased charges represented by increases in shipping freights? 
The Minister for Commerce supplies the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
The Government has no information on this point. 
The Commonwealth Government is not in a position to take action in the direction suggested. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Was a departmental inquiry recently held into matters concerning the Parks and Gardens Branch? 
If so, what was the nature of the inquiry and the result? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior supplies the following answers: - 1 and 2. A departmental inquiry is at present being conducted. 
asked the Minister in Charge of Development,  upon notice - 
Can the Minister give the Senate the personnel of the Australian Agricultural Council ? 
What are the names of the Advisory Board to the Council? 
Can the Minister say if a report of the proceedings of these bodies will be made available to the Senate? 
The Minister for Commerce supplies the following answers :  - 
The personnel of the Australian Agricultural Council is - The Federal Minister for Commerce, the Federal Minister in Charge of Development, the State Ministers of Agriculture. 
The personnel of the Standing Committee on Agriculture is - The Secretary, Department of Commerce, the Director-General of Health, the members of the Executive Committee of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, the Permanent Heads of the State Departments of Agriculture. 
The reports of proceedings of the Council are issued only to members of the Council, but all decisions have been widely published. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
Based on the number of enlistments in Australia of men and women for service overseas during the Great War, what is the total expenditure to 30th June last,  per capita  of such enlistments, from Commonwealth public funds on account of the settlement of soldiers on the land, and the operations of (a) the War Gratuity Act, (b) the War Service Homes Acts, (c) the Repatriation Acts? 
The information is being obtained and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
[11.8].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is introduced in order to make a minor amendment to the Removal of Prisoners (Territories) Act 1923 which provides the machinery for the removal, where necessary, of prisoners from any of the territories of the Commonwealth. While the act is general in its application, its necessity arose owing to difficulties experienced in dealing with white prisoners in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea. It was found by the Administrator of that Territory that it was inadvisable to confine white persons in gaol in New Guinea for lengthy periods, for health 'reasons and because there is no employment which white persons can be given without the white population losing prestige in the eyes of the natives. Subsequent to the passing of the principal act, arrangements were made with the Governments of Queensland and New South Wales for prisoners from a territory to be received into gaols in those States and to undergo the sentences imposed upon them by the courts of the territories. The cost of maintaining a prisoner while in custody in Australia is paid by the Administration of the territory from which the prisoner is removed. Section 8 of the act provides that if the GovernorGeneral or the Governor of a State to which a prisoner is removed, requires a prisoner to be returned for discharge to the territory from which he was removed, the prisoner is to be returned to that territory at the expiration of his sentence for discharge. The section provides further that in any other case, a prisoner, when discharged at the expiration of his sentence shall, on application made in such manner and within the time prescribed, be entitled to be sent free of cost to the territory from which he was removed. Regulations have been made under the act, requiring an application by a prisoner for a free passage to the territory to be lodged within fourteen days of his discharge. Most of the white residents of New Guinea were, prior to going to the territory, residents of Australia, and arrangements have been made with the Government of New South Wales for prisoners from the territory who were born in New South Wales or who were resident in that State for some time before going to the territory, to be discharged in the State at the expiration of their sentences. In the case of prisoners who were born in other States or who were resident for lengthy periods in those States prior to going to the territory, such prisoners are, at the expiration of their sentences, discharged in New South Wales and the cost of their transport to the States in which they formerly resided are paid by the Administration. 
Provision is made in the law of New Guinea for the deportation from the territory of persons convicted of certain offences, and if a deportation order is issued against a prisoner who is transferred to Australia to serve his sentence and that prisoner claims a free passage to the territory after discharge in Australia, the Administration is put to the expense of a passage of the prisoner to the territory and of a passage from the territory when the deportation order is put into execution immediately after the prisoner's return to the territory. It is not considered that a person against whom a deportation order has been issued, should be entitled to a free passage to the territory, and this bill is to prevent such persons from having the right of a return passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.  Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate ; report adopted. 
The Opposition objected to the suspension of the Standing Orders not out of any desire to be freakish, but to register once again our absolute displeasure at the manner in which the business of this Parliament, particularly so far as this chamber is concerned, is conducted. For years we have registered this protest in season and out of season. I know that honorable senators are anxious to go to their homes for the Christmas and New Year vacation. "We share that desire, but we strongly object to the fact that after members of this Parliament in both Houses have been kept cooling their heels month after month awaiting legislation the Government towards the end of the session displays indecent and unseemly haste to put through a pile of legislation within a few days. We are now being asked to pass this measure through all its stages in one day. 
Well, without delay, and that means that the Government desires to get the bill through without giving us a decent opportunity to discuss the expenditure of millions of pounds. 
Well then I hope no tears will be shed by honorable senators opposite when we occupy the full time allowed to us under the Standing Orders. In spite of the kindly interjection of the Leader of the Government, the fact remains that both in this chamber and in the House of Representatives legislation is being crammed into the last few weeks of the session. 
I shall always insist that honorable senators are not paid their parliamentary allowance for fun by the taxpayers of this country. If the business which comes before this chamber does not warrant reasonable attention, then we are taking our parliamentary allowance under false pretences. There is no need for me to reiterate that I do not think our present allowance is adequate; that is beside the point. Honorable senators accept this allowance to do a certain job, but we cannot do that work properly, because the Government does not give us an opportunity to do it. No honorable senator can take up a bill in the morning and on the same day advance reasonable arguments, either in support of or against it. I believe that no member of Parliament should have any other job ; if ever I became dictator of Australia I would see that an adequate salary was paid to members of Parliament, and then would not allow them to have the slightest financial interest outside their parliamentary allowance. Then I would demand that honorable senators attend all the sittings of this chamber. Some honorable senators on the parliamentary pay-sheet rarely put in an appearance here. In fact, we hardly recognize some of them when they do turn up. I am referring, not to honorable senators who are absent owing to ill health, but to those who are in the best of health, but absent themselves in order to attend to greater financial interests outside. Those honorable senators regard their parliamentary positions as a mere side line. I am not alone in this attitude. A few days ago the Melbourne  Age  had something to say regarding this matter. Before reading an extract from that paper, I emphasize that, if I have one conviction more definite than any other, it is that, despite all the criticism of our method of doing our job in Parliament, our position under the British Constitution and our free parliamentary institutions give to us the best form of government that the world has yet conceived. For this reason I am jealous of the reputation of this chamber. But apparently honorable senators are expected to be merely an echo of the . House of Representatives; when a bill is transmitted to this chamber we are expected to say, "Yes, sir," and leave it go. As a matter of fact, if it were not for the activity of the Opposition, despite our numerical weakness, and, I may add, the frequent speeches of  Senator Johnston,  who has a way of voicing his protest, members of this chamber would constitute a happy family, and there would be no need for us to come here at all; we could attend to our work by correspondence. On this matter the Melbourne  Age  said - 
A Parliament freely elected and a Government responsible topeople and Parliament are the institutions democracies have chosen for the achievement of their purposes. A free and efficient Parliament is entirely excellent as an ideal. But in its operation the institution has developed defects which, if uncorrected, may depreciate it in public esteem. Within recent years many of Parliament's powers have become concentrated in the Cabinet; one consequence is that some groups of Ministers seem unequal to their responsibilities. Australians may discern confirmatory evidence in the past record and contemporary actions of their National Government. Legislativeprogress at Canberra continues slow; the administrative spirit seems lethargic. Ministers do not appear to have any of the zest they might have been expected to exhibit after five months' recess. Last Thursday members of the House of Representatives set themselves to discuss general business, with the nature of which Ministers had had abundant opportunity to make themselves familiar. Concerning several items, however, the Government made no effort to present considered argument; it relied upon the passing of motions of adjournment.On two occasions, indeed, a responsible Minister intimated that he had not had time to study the questions. From that source, therefore, neither Parliament nor nation could hope for either, constructive or corrective guidance. To demonstrations of Ministerial apathy have now to be added confessions of Ministerial ignorance. 
I admit that a Cabinet, as a kind of executive committee, is essential to our system of Government, but it should not be left to that Cabinet virtually to do the job; and then throw down its decisions before members of Parliament without giving us time to give to them the fullest consideration. The article in the  Age  continued - 
The Federal Parliament itself hopes to rise for the Christmas recess next week, not to resume again probably until March. Having been in session for two months, it will rest from its labours for three months. And yet there is a series of extensive Tariff schedules being carried forward by a recurrent validating . process, one from December, 1934; another from March, 1935; another is anticipated when the Government proposes postponement of a full Tariff discussion until March, 1936. Over an even more extended period the Government has displayed similar inactivity with respect to the continuing gross injustice being done to Australian shipping by the encroachments of foreign subsidized competition. 
To that the Opposition says "Hear, hear !" 
Both on commercial and national grounds it is essential that Australia should be steadily creating for herself the asset of a vigorous mercantile marine. It is vain to hope that that canbe done as long as the Government puts forth no effort to make competitive conditions more equitable. America's heavily subsidized liners continue to despoil out interDominion trade, while their own far-flung coast line is kept a close preserve. The Government's excuses for its inaction have never been impressive. But even the last of these vanished when it was intimated that Britain had no objection to the voyage between New Zealand and Australia toeing declared a coastal one. The intimation from important shipping companies that unless some defence is provided British passenger and mail steamers between Australia and San Francisco will be withdrawn elicits from the Federal Government nothing more than vague mention of some future conference to which competing interests will , be invited. Meantime Ministerial refusal to take the simple, feasible step of applying to America's subsidized shipping conditions parallel to those America has herself so long imposed is absolutely indefensible. 
The accumulation of national business which is receiving little or no attention should make plain to the Government that its first duty is to supply dynamic to the slow-moving legislative machinery. Ministers are so frequently and for such lon" periods absent from their departments at Canberra that their inability to participate intelligently in Parliamentary debate can be understood. 
I have quoted from an editorial in the Melbourne  Age  of four days ago. 
The Opposition is not satisfied with the answers supplied by Ministers to questions asked by its members. I, personally, feel very strongly on this matter. I shall not reflect on the questions asked by supporters of the Government, but I invite honorable senators to look at the  Journals of the Senate  and see the nature of the questions which members of the Opposition put to Ministers. Not any of those questions is likely to entail a lot of expense, or a great amount of research, in order to obtain the information desired. Questions put by members on this side of the chamber are always simple and to the point, and refer to matters of immediate public interest, so that intelligent and straightforward answers ought to be given to them. Unfortunately, such answers are not always supplied. During the last few days, I have asked a number of questions to which I have received most unsatisfactory replies. The latest example was supplied this morning in the answer given to a question of which I gave notice yesterday. I asked whether a departmental inquiry was being held by the Department of the Interior in relation to its parks and gardens branch and, in reply, I was informed that an inquiry was still proceeding. I am not in a position to say that the inquiry is not proceeding, but I am able to say that those who gave evidence at that inquiry, and were guaranteed immunity from victimization if they did so, are now being treated in such a manner as to make it clear that, if victimization has not already been resorted to, the way is being prepared for it.' Within a week or so, Parliament will adjourn, and yet I am fobbed off with the curt statement that an inquiry is still proceeding. I do not suggest that the reply to my question is not accurate, but I desired to know the nature of the inquiry and I claim that the Minister could have given to me that information, even if he had not been prepared to say what the result of the inquiry was, because matters connected with it had not been finally dealt with. 
Another question which I asked recently had reference to the ceremony of swearing-in the Governor-General elect. In reply to my question, I was told definitely that the subject had been fully considered by Cabinet, which had decided that the ceremony should take place in Melbourne. That answer was unsatisfactory to me, and, in my opinion, it should be unsatisfactory to every honorable senator. Australia has established its national capital at Canberra, and yet a national ceremony such as is the installation of its Governor-General, is to take place in another city. The miserable and paltry and, I believe, untruthful, excuse for holding the ceremony in Melbourne, as stated in the newspapers, is that the Governor-General elect is already well acquainted with New South Wales, but desires to become familiar with the other States, particularly Victoria and Tasmania. We are told that the Government has decided to hold the ceremony in Melbourne so that, immediately thereafter,  His Excellency  may proceed to Tasmania. Portion of my question was deleted because, presumably, the  President  considered that it contained an expression of opinion. I do not object to that, for I have no desire to be obstructive; but I do not think that the rejection of part of my question was fair to the Senate. My question originally asked why the desire of the Governor-General elect to go to Tasmania should be considered when that State can be reached from Canberra by him as easily as by members of Parliament. There is nothing to prevent the swearing-in ceremony from taking place at the national capital.  His Excellency  could get away from Canberra in comfort and with expedition immediately after the termination of the ceremony. I am expected to be satisfied with the ridiculous answer given to my question. I am not satisfied with it, and I register my emphatic protest against this ceremony and, indeed, any national function such as a meeting of Cabinet or of the 'Commonwealth 'Bank Board, or of the Loan Council or of a conference of the Premiers, being held away from the national capital. That I am not alone in that opinion is made clear by a leading article which appeared in this morning's  Canberra Times - 
At that time 1 was not a member of the Senate, but had I been, I certainly should have asked a question on the subject, although, no doubt, I should have been given an answer as unsatisfactory as that given to me a few days ago. 
The honorable senator who has asked that question knows the answer as well as I do. Interjections of this kind are intended to be smart, but their smartness is the smartness of ignorance. A wrong action by a Nationalist government is not made right because a Labour government did a similar thing on another occasion. The Opposition in the Senate is guided by certain basic principles and it is not to be diverted from the path that it considers to be right because somewhere else a Labour Government does something which does not conform to those principles. I should like honorable senators to realize that they cannot trap mc, or my colleagues, by interjections of that sort, which, however smart, do not get anywhere. 
I am aware that at a later stage 1 shall have an opportunity to deal with some of the subjects to which I hav&amp; referred this morning. I' shall certainly have more to say regarding the swearingin of the Governor-General elect when the appropriate occasion arrives. 
The retiring Auditor-General has had a good deal to say regarding the accountancy methods adopted by the present Government. I listened with a great deal of interest to the statement made yesterday on this subject by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and now confess that I found myself in entire agreement with him. But there is another phase of the Auditor-General's report with which I cannot agree. On the contrary, I register my most emphatic protest against the way in which he has reflected on invalid and old-age pensioners. I shall not go into details, because the whole subject has already been well ventilated in the House of Representatives and because I am sure that every honorable senator knows my views on this subject; but in my opinion, it is not right that any official appointed by the Government, and paid out of the public purse, should cast aspersions on any section of the community. In this chamber a year ago, I asked why the Auditor-General's Department had not been transferred to Canberra, and I said that if I had the power, I would give the Auditor-General 24 hours in which to come here. I was informed in reply that the AuditorGeneral had never refused to come to Canberra. Yet responsible newspapers in the country have definitely stated during the last week or two that this is the man, who had successfully defied the Cabinet to bring him to Canberra. I remind honorable senators that I had to be satisfied with the answer to my question that he had not refused to come here. Yesterday in the House of Representatives the Government announced that it would not withhold the sum of £1,538 proposed to be paid to the Auditor-General on his retirement in lieu of furlough. The Labour party for which I speak does not advocate a breach of contract with an individual, but I maintain that this man who has had the effrontery - a mild term to use, considering the circumstances - to slander the old-age and invalid pensioners does not deserve such consideration. Occupying a wonderful position, he has drawn a princely salary and is about to receive £1,538 as furlough pay. I maintain that the Government should have, by withholding this money from him, marked its disapproval of his conduct and of the infamous slanders which he uttered against people who pioneered this country, made Australia worth living in, and laid the foundations for providing the means to pay members of Parliament their allowances and to work in comfort in these palatial surroundings. This highly-paid official, having attacked persons unable to. protect themselves, now shelters within the coward's castle of immunity from political interference. In future an AuditorGeneral, judge or any other official should not be given an opportunity to declare himself immune from political control. Parliament should have the right to impeach this man and remove him from office without any further payment from the Treasury. 
During the debate on the amending Crimes Bill, members of the Opposition were informed that they occupied a position of splendid isolation when they ventured to oppose the measure. When I said that our attitude was widely supported I was held up to derision by honorable senators supporting the Government. 
Not with a view to digesting the contents as we do. I stated that unions throughout the Commonwealth were passing resolutions condemning this legislation and that some of the greatest legal luminaries in the country had personally written to me to compliment me on my stand. Judging from the smiles of smug satisfaction on the countenances of honorable senators, I assumed that they were doubtful of the accuracy of that statement. I have just received a telegram from the secretary of the Clerks Union, Brisbane, which has a membership exceeding 6,000 persons. It reads - 
Have forwarded Lyons, Menzies protest amendment Crimes Act stating proposals inequitable unreasonable. Regards 
Sanders, Clerks Union. 
I expected such an interjection from the rogue elephant of politics in this chamber.  Senator Allan  MacDonald is a genial gentleman, but he has a habit of prancing about this chamber and taking the attention of Ministers from their work; when he is not distracting Ministers he is in conversation with undersecretaries. I resent this latest ebullition of the boyhood humour which is peculiar to him; he should have grown out of it by this time. I did not assert that  Mr. Sanders  is a legal luminary; he is the secretary of the Clerks Union, which has a membership of more than 6,000 persons. 
I object to the unseemly haste which invariably characterizes the end of a session. Probably the Leader of the Senate will inform me, when he replies, that the Opposition has spoken too much. If it did not cost too much to obtain the information, I would like to know how many columns of  Hansard  the Opposition has filled this session as compared with the space occupied by the 10 per cent, of other senators who support the Government by voice as well as by vote. I exclude  Senator Johnston  from that 10 per cent. Less than 10 per cent, of honorable senators who support the Government in this chamber ever have anything to say, if the others break their silence, their remarks are brief and, I add with all respect, more or less unintelligible. But when that 10 per cent, of the ministerial senators devote themselves to serious business their speeches occupy far more space in  Hansard  than do those of members of the Opposition. I am not complaining about that; our objective is not to talk to  Hansard  but to give expression to the basic principles of the Labour movement, which, in our opinion, are worthy of mature consideration. If the Leader of the Senate should inform us that, irrespective of how often 
Parliament sits, this unseemly haste invariably occurs at the end of a session, I shall not be satisfied with that answer. No excuse can be offered by the Government for keeping this Parliament in recess for five months, meeting for two months, and again going into recess for three months. Like any other honorable senator, I am anxious to enjoy my Christmas holidays, but if the Leader of the Senate had informed us last night : " You cannot have your Christmas holidays but must remain here until the legislation awaiting consideration has been adequately dealt with ", the three members of the Opposition would have cancelled any arrangements they had made and would have replied, " Let us get on with the job ". 
So far as we are concerned, there is nothing heroic about that attitude. From various platforms in Queensland we have told the people that they should object to their representatives drawing allowances which they do not earn. 
That interjection comes with bad grace from  Senator Abbott.  Recently, when submitting a motion to the Senate, he moved me, as no other honorable senator on the other side of this chamber could possibly move me, and I would have been guilty of an assault on my conscience if I had interjected, " Mock heroics " when listening to his sentiments. Still, the interjection leaves me smiling. I realize that  Senator Pearce,  when he gave the lead to  Senator Abbott  with the interjection of " Heroics " was not actuated by an .unkindly motive. He canes us at times, but we realize that such chastisement is his task, and we are prepared to submit to it. We squeal and protest, but we ask him and other honorable senators to take our squeals and protests in the spirit of absolute sincerity in which they are offered. 
In view of the comparatively small number of days on which the Senate has sat this session, and particularly in view of the fact that the Senate did not sit at all last week, I regret that the Government has found it necessary to suspend the Standing Orders to enable a more speedy consideration of the annual Appropriation Bill, which contains no fewer than 254 pages and involves an expenditure of £23,759,770. I cannot refrain from drawing a comparison between the haste with which legislation is approved and Standing Orders are suspended in the Senate today, with a very different attitude that was taken when the Scullin Government was in office; at that time practically every line of every bill and every item of expenditure were most carefully scrutinized and weighed. The Senate might well spend more time than is proposed now in examining the expenditure of nearly £24,000,000. Yesterday, when I was addressing the chamber on the subject of excessive taxation imposed by this government, which like previous governments in the Commonwealth, every year takes more money out of the pockets of the taxpayers, I was limited largely by the fact that, under the Standing Orders, my remarks had to be confined to income taxation. Although some small exemptions from sales tax and a small reduction of one rate of tax have been granted by the Government this year, the Commonwealth is actually taking more money from the pockets of the taxpayers year by year. The estimated returns from taxes for this year have only once in the history of federation been exceeded. The terrific scale of federal taxation, both direct and indirect, constitutes a burden on Australian industry which it is no longer able to bear. It was hoped that the inclusion of representatives of the Country party in the Ministry would at least bring about that repeal of excessive emergency taxation, which is essential to the recovery of industry and the restoration of men in employment. Yesterday, I quoted remarks from  Dr. Earle  Page's policy speech, with which I cordially agreed, in which he said that the Country party particularly favoured the abolition of the whole of the emergency taxation. To-day his party shares the responsibility of government; therefore, it behoves him and his colleagues to proceed to the abolition of these taxes. If the Government will do that it will receive liberal sup- port, not only from the majority of honorable senators, but also from the electors who, having in mind the promises that taxation would be substantially reduced, enthusiastically returned the Government to power fifteen months ago. Up to date this year very few concessions in the direction of reducing taxation have been granted. The Government is actually collecting over £14,000,000 from emergency taxation, which was imposed by the Scullin Government during the depth of the depression and which, of course, was accepted as necessary by a majority of honorable senators, despite the fact that they were notassociated with that Government. If they had witheld their support, the emergency legislation would not have become law. This year it is estimated that the Government will collect £8,850,000 from the sales tax, which was a purely emergency measure. 
Auditor-General said the Government has in various trust funds. 
Apparently this enormous collection of £14,000,000 from emergency taxes is deemed necessary, despite  Mr. Cerutty's  statement that, on the 30th June last0 the Government had £8,000,000 to the credit of its various trust funds, thus more than providing for the present financial requirements of the Commonwealth; and this sum represents taxes collected during depression years. 
It is amazing that the Government should collect so much from primage duties. The amount estimated for this year is £4,079,000, being £400,000 in excess of the amount received from this source in 1931-32, when the rates were higher and the range wider than it is to-day. The following table shows how the burden of taxation has increased during the last five years, despite reductions of rates that have been made from time to time by successive governments : - 
I shall be very much surprised if the estimated surplus is not very greatly exceeded, in view of a statement made by  Mr. Manning,  the Attorney-General of New South Wale3, in the Legislative Council last week,, that, as a result of the discussion between the Premier of New South Wales and Federal Ministers during the preceding week-end, the wheat bill, to implement the Federal Government's policy for the assistance of wheat-growers, would not operate for this harvest.  Mr. Manning's  statement was inconsistent with answers given by Ministers to some questions which I have addressed to them in this chamber. I have examined the  Hansard  report  of the  debate in the New South Wales Parliament, and I discovered that, whilst the bill, as introduced, was made applicable to the 1935 harvest, it was decided as the result of a discussion between  Mr. Stevens,  the Premier of New South Wales, and Commonwealth Ministers, that the relief should not be available until next year. I have read press statements that the Federal Government feared that it would not be able to apply its wheat legislation to this year's harvest, because the Governments of Western Australia and South Australia had not introduced the necessary complementary measures.  Mr. Collier,  the Premier of Western Australia, who  attended the Loan Council meeting in Melbourne, returned to Perth on the 19th November, the day on which  Mr. Manning  made hia statement in the New South Wales Parliament that it had been decided that the wheat legislation for New South Wales would  not operate during this harvest. Two days later  Mr. Manning  moved an amendment to make the legislation operative for the 1936 harvest, instead of, as originally intended, for this year's harvest. 
I do not know about that; but the Government of Western Australia should not be blamed for inaction. I have not yet had a satisfactory explanation of the reasons which actuated the New South Wales Government in amending its bill to make its provisions apply to next year's harvest. 
The honorable senator may say that, but I am not satisfied that that statement is fair or accurate, because, as I have explained,  Mr. Manning  made his statement on the day that  Mr. Collier  arrived in Perth after attending the meeting of the Loan Council in Melbourne. 
I have not ignored the Prime Minister's statement, but I am surprised that, before members of this Parliament heard anything about it,  Mr. Manning  was in a position to announce that the flour tax would be continued. The Prime Minister declared that it was the intention of the Commonwealth Government to assist the wheat industry this year, and, in view of recent developments, I should like to know definitely what form that assistance is to take. Also, what measure of assistance the 
Government proposes to give to wheatfarmers, who are in such distress as the result of partial drought conditions. I do not overlook what the Prime  Minister  has said; but I am unable to reconcile his statement with that made by  Mr. Manning. 
The Prime Minister should be. 
The position of the wheat-farmers has been very much confused by the action of the New South Wales Government in making its wheat legislation apply to the harvest of 1936 instead of this year. I have asked for information, but so far I have not had a satisfactory explanation of the Federal Government's change of policy in this matter. No one knows what its policy will be for this harvest, and no provision has been made for any assistance to the industry. 
The figures which I have quoted show that the total estimated to be received from income tax this year is only about £S00,000 below the amount which, the retiring Auditor-General states, has been placed in various trust funds, and is available for expenditure by the Government without any further parliamentary authorization. Over £1,000,000 is estimated to be received this year from the land tax, despite the definite promise made by the Prime Minister to an influential deputation which waited upon him, that this levy would be removed so soon as Commonwealth finances made it possible. I give the Government credit for having reduced the super tax on income from property by 50 per cent., but I think it should be entirely abolished. Despite the fact that the Auditor-General reported recently that £8,000,000 is held in the trust fund, and that no provision is made in the Estimates for a renewal of the payment of £4,000,000 paid to the wheat-growers last year, the Government proposes to collect from the Australian taxpayers this year no less  than  £59,050,000. The excessive burden of the taxes imposed is illustrated by the figures disclosed in the Commonwealth and State budgets for the year 1934-35. During that financial year the collections were - 

<graphic href="148332193511294_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

Although the production of Australia last year was valued at £355,000,000 the huge amount of nearly £94,000,000 was collected in taxes. The tax collections of all Australian  governments during 1934-35 exceeded all previous records. Notwithstanding all the pious talk of tax remissions the various governments in the Commonwealth are now collecting a larger amount in taxes than has ever been collected previously. While the amount of federal taxes collected does not constitute a record in the history of the Commonwealth, it is a burden that could be justified only during a boom period. The present high rate cannot be justified at present, particularly when primary and secondary producers are striving to emerge from the devastating effects of the depression. If their efforts are to be assisted and not hindered the deadweight load of taxes must be lightened. A serious factor which is apparent in the national finances is the tendency to allow revenue to mount higher and higher each year. The Commonwealth taxation figures for the last five years in round figures are - 

<graphic href="148332193511294_11_1.jpg"></graphic>

That, of course, represents only federal taxes.For the present financial year taxes amounting to £59,000,000 are estimated to be collected. No provision whatever has been made in the Estimates for a grant to the wheat-growers, who last year were paid £4,000,000. I again ask whether the Government proposes to provide for the payment of a similar amount this year. If that amount is not to be paid during this financial year why has the amount of taxes to be collected not been reduced by £4,000,000 instead of it being increased to a total of £59,000,000? These figures should be compared with a modest amount of £11,000,000 collected in taxes in 1910-11. Beyond minor fluctuations federal taxes have increased steadily from year to year, and it would appear that unless a firm stand is taken the peak has not yet been reached. With the exception of the entertainments tax no field of taxation entered by the Commonwealth has ever been vacated. A depressing fact is that over £14,000,000 in the form of emergency taxes alone is to be taken from the pockets of Australian taxpayers. By merciless taxation the Commonwealth Government has, during the last four years, accumulated surpluses aggregating £6,873,474. Emergency taxation imposed in the darkest days of the depression still continues at the same exorbitant rates, and £8,000,000, representing taxes collected years before they were required has been placed into a trust fund for later use. It is interesting to note that the taxes collected during the last financial year exceeded the estimate by no less than £4,904,524. After making allowance for meagre remissions of sales tax, and the property tax, it is proposed to collect a further £300,000 in emergency taxes during the present financial year. It is only natural that, with improvement in business conditions generally, revenue from taxation will continue to increase if the old rates are retained. In these circumstances, the Government cannot claim any credit because taxes have not been increased, and, in view of the increasing receipts from other taxes, little credit is to be gained from making infinitesimal reductions. Figures quoted in the British House of Commons early this year gave the  per capita  burden of taxation in various countries for 1935 as follows - 

<graphic href="148332193511294_11_2.jpg"></graphic>

During the same year, Commonwealth taxes amounted to £8 9s. 6d.  per capita,  while Commonwealth and State taxation combined amounted to £13 13s.1d.  per capita.  These comparisons reflect very little credit upon Australia. In a young country it is urgently necessary that as much of the national wealth as is possible should be left in the hands of private enterprise and the people generally for developmental expansion and to provide employment. The expenditure of various governments has become such a burden that it is unreasonable to expect the people to carry it with any degree of willingness. While citizens are prepared to bear their fair share of the legitimate costs of government, they insist that those costs shall not be any greater than they can reasonably afford to meet. Are the needs of the Government to be placed before those of the people? During the last few years, taxpayers have been forced to reduce drastically their expenditure and to practice the most rigid economies. Should not the same policy be adopted by Parliament? The Auditor-General, in his latest report, stated " Private enterprise is dominated by two questions: - First, is it necessary? Second, can we afford it ?" Parliament must decide these questions before this bill is passed. The magnitude of public expenditure is staggering when it is realized that, during 1933-34, the latest year for which complete figures are available, the aggregate expenditure of Federal and State Governments and local governing authorities amounted to £237,354,000, equivalent to £650,285 a day or £451 a minute. The whole of this sum has to be provided by taxpayers. 
I shall give the figures in detail. The details of this expenditure are: - 

<graphic href="148332193511294_12_4.jpg"></graphic>

These figures have been extracted from  Finance Bulletin No. 25  prepared by the Commonwealth Statistician. The amount for local government expenditure is not complete, as it does not include loan expenditure by many authorities such as water and sewerage boards. The evils of exorbitant taxation are twofold: first, it reduces the spending power of the people as a whole; and secondly, it destroys the wealth from which future production, and incidentally future taxation must come. Funds that might have been invested in factories, industrial undertakings, the development and improvement of country properties, the working of new gold-mines, and in other activities productive of widespread employment, have gone, and still are going, through, taxation, into the bottomless pit of wasteful governmental expenditure. Overseas investors and our own citizens to-day hesitate to finance enterprises in- Australia owing to the huge burden of taxation and the discriminating taxes levied upon the whole of the taxpayers. I am informed that there is substantial British capital available for investment in Australian country lands and in Western Australian gold-mining enterprises, so soon as the onerous Federal Land Tax is abolished and federal income taxes are reduced. It is in the national interest that overseas investors and our own people should be encouraged to invest in Australia; thus the development of both public and private resources would be encouraged. Under present conditions there is little to induce an investor to bring, his capital to Australia -and many of our. own citizens, because of the heavy taxation on industry, prefer to invest in Government bonds instead of in the development of primary and secondary industries. In his  Canons of Taxation,  published more than 100 years ago, Adam Smith said - 
The purpose for which any tax is to be raised ought to be clearly of more advantage to the community than the money would be if not collected. 
How many of our taxes to-day could measure up to this standard? 

 Senator E. B. JOHNSTON They certainly receive the first consideration from the Federal Government in its tariff policy, whilst the great primary industries have to bear the main burden of tariffs and other forms of taxation. Experience has shown that, in the final analysis, economic recovery can be achieved only through private enterprise. The improved business conditions apparent to-day indicate that industry is recovering despite the handicap of excessive taxation. That this improvement could be greatly accelerated by relieving industry and the people generally of the severest of the present taxation burdens is beyond dispute. Seduction of taxation has always resulted in an expansion of industry out of all proportion to the loss to the public revenue. The time has come when the emergency taxes imposed during the years of depression must be removed. Freedom from these taxes would add greatly to the' spending power of the whole community, would leave more wealth in the hands of industry to provide for future expansion, and would engender that further confidence which is needed to achieve complete economic rehabilitation. Continued imposition of the existing huge taxes will inevitably react to the detriment of the whole community. 
I endorse the protest by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  against the AuditorGeneral's allegation of intemperance among old-age pensioners. I take exception to the conclusions which he drew from the fact that the takings of hotel proprietors are higher on days on which pensions are paid. Such statements are similar to reports which were habitually published in a section of the Western Australian press concerning various police court cases. Very often a person against whom a conviction was recorded was specifically described as a returned soldier. There was no reason why that distinction should have been emphasized. The Returned Soldiers League in Western Australia took exception to such reports, and about the same time a similar protest was made by the Rabbi of Western Australia when the accused in a police court prosecution was described in a certain newspaper as a Jew. There is no good reason for such distinctions being made in respect of culprits brought before a police court. It would be just as logical to emphasize that a certain culprit is a member of some prominent organization. I do not believe that old-age pen sioners as a body are any more intenperate  in their habits than is the average Australian citizen. For that reason, I condemn the remarks of the AuditorGeneral in this respect. I would like to have taken him with me on a tour which I made some years ago before the boom in gold-mining to some outposts situated many miles north of Kalgoorlie, and in the Kanowna-Kurnalpi areas, and shown him there a large number of oldage pensioners who, although approaching 70 years of age, were still scratching for a few specks of gold. Nowhere else in Australia could one meet men of a better type. I am always prepared to take off my hat to the old-age pensioners in recognition of the pioneering work they have done in the backblocks of Australia. 
I do not agree with the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition concerning the attendance of honorable senators in this chamber, in support of which he read an editorial from the Melbourne  Age.  Yesterday I had occasion to criticize that journal because of its narrow-minded references to the financially weaker States. The comment read by the Leader of the Opposition is not the first criticism in the same strain published by the  Age.  To judge honorable senators fairly in this matter I suggest that a comparison be made of the number of sitting -days of the Senate with the number of sitting days of upper chambers in the different States. Such a comparison will clearly indicate that honorable senators have no need to hang their heads in shame. In making its caustic references to the Senate on this matter, the Melbourne  Age  shut its eyes to causes for similar comment nearer its own door. I propose to give the official attendances of members of the various Legislative Councils throughout Australia. Taking Victoria first, we find that during the last five years the average annual number of sittings of the Legislative Council was 40. The figures for the individual years were - 

<graphic href="148332193511294_13_5.jpg"></graphic>


 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.During 1932 the Ottawa Conference was held, and was attended by a number of senior members of the Commonwealth Government whose absence from Australia affected the sittings of the Commonwealth Parliament. The Victorian Legislative Council was not affected in the same way by that conference, which everyone will admit was of great importance to Australia and the Empire generally. 
The average sittings of the legislative councils of the several States for the last five years were - Victoria, 40£ days; Western Australia, 56£ days ; South Australia, 41 days; and New South Wales, 58 days. The average of the Senate for four years was 60J sitting days. The period to which those figures relate includes the disastrous regime of the Lang administration, when the Legislative Council of New South Wales was more busy than usual in trying to keep  Mr. Lang  and his Government in check. But, after all, the number of sitting days is not of such importance as is the work performed. Judged according to this standard, the record of the Senate is one of which it has good reason to be proud. Had it not been for the Senate, the Commonwealth Bank would not be in its present unasailable  position. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD Had not the Senate intervened, the Commonwealth Bank would now be under political control. 
I was not a member of the Senate when this chamber took steps to prevent a most undesirable state of affairs that was threatened in connexion with the Commonwealth Bank; but, like many other Australian citizens, I followed with interest the determined and successful efforts of the Senate to keep our monetary system free from political control. For the present satisfactory state of affairs this chamber was wholly responsible. The Senate is content to be judged according to the value of the work it performs, rather than on the number of its sittings. When making comparisons with other legislative chambers, the fact must be remembered that a House of 36 members is able to dispose of its business much more expeditiously than is a House of 76 members, unless, of course, our ability and usefulness is to be measured by the yardstick of verbosity. The stock of verbosity is less in a House of fewer members, so that to suggest that the Senate should meet more frequently merely because another branch of the legislature has more sitting days is only to suggest unnecessary additional expense to be borne by the taxpayers of the country. Had it not been for the  verbosity  . of members of the House of Representatives, the Senate might have met last week to perform useful business in the interests of the Commonwealth. 
In the press and elsewhere reference is frequently made to alien nations. Last night we listened to an intelligent and thoughtful address on Japan by  Senator Payne,  and heard at first-hand a number of important facts regarding this near neighbour in the Pacific.  Senator Payne  urged that greater care should be taken not to do or say anything which might hurt the feelings of other peoples. He urged that all should discourage outbursts of temper, or the use of extravagant language, when referring to the proposals of other nations. Similar advice was given by the exAttorneyGeneral of the Commonwealth  (Sir John Latham)  on his return from Japan and other eastern countries which he visited a year or so ago. I hope that that good advice will be taken to heart, not only by public men, but also by those in control of the various newspapers and journals published in this country. The latest issue of the  Bulletin  contains on the front page, an alleged cartoon depicting a hideous looking Japanese soldier attempting to kill a defenceless Chinaman while the League of Nations, represented by a policeman, pays attention to a schoolboy quarrel between Italy and Abyssinia. The art displayed in the cartoon is in keeping with its alleged wit. It is to be regretted that such publications should be widely distributed throughout Australia, and even find their way to Japan, for nothing is more calculated to arouse unfriendly feeling among our Japanese neighbours than an offensive cartoon such as that to which I have referred. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.That may be; but the whole thing is stupid, and only tends to create ill-feeling between nations whose relations should be of the friendliest character. I candidly admit that many of the cartoons in the  Bulletin  have given me pleasure; but Australian journals do a disservice to this country and the cause of peace by senselessly publishing matter which, to say the least, is irritating to others. 
It is difficult in a discussion of the Estimates to point to any item of expenditure and say that it ought to be reduced. As a representative of Western Australia, I feel constrained to say that that State has received favorable treatment from the Commonwealth during the last two or three years. I do not know whether  Senator Johnston  meant that pensions should be cut down when he spoke of federal extravagance. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.When liabilities arising out of the war, including soldiers' pensions and repatriation, together with old-age pensions and other obligations, are met, the bulk of the Commonwealth revenue is absorbed. 
I know  Senator Johnston  much better than to believe him capable of suggesting such a thing. It is difficult to discover where the alleged federal extravagances could bc avoided, and I, for one, when perusing the Estimates in the brief period that they have been available to us, failed to see where these so-called extravagances could be reduced. Like  Senator Johnston,  I hope that the grant payable to Western Australia will be increased; but, if the Government listens to the Melbourne  Age,  there is a 'grave danger of that grant being decreased, because a mere suggestion from one quarter may give rise to a train of thought which will prove very disastrous to the financially-weaker States, not only Western Australia, but also South Australia and Tasmania. The age was formerly a very important journal and in taking a leading part in the public life of the Commonwealth did good work for the nation, but when it stoops to cheap criticism of the financially-weaker States, I and many others deplore its fall from grace, lt ill becomes the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  to quote comments in that paper in support of his criticisms, not only of the Senate, but also of many other matters. I suggest that the honorable senator should go to more reliable sources when seeking material with which to fortify his criticism of ministerial supporters. I hope that the Government will favorably receive requests from the financially-weaker States. To-day I received a letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  in which the right honorable gentleman stated that his Government at all times is prepared to hear representations from the weaker States when they are experiencing a financial or economic difficulty. I am sure that the Prime Minister will be ready to accede to any reasonable requests from the States. I support the bill. 
I rise to support my leader  (Senator Collings),  whose criticisms of the Government were well founded. Much public criticism has been levelled at the haste with which the Government is endeavouring to force legislation through both Houses of this Parliament. Undoubtedly, the Senate has come in for much criticism, and it is only right and fair that honorable senators should do their best to uphold the prestige of the chamber in the eyes of the people. Especially is this necessary in these days, when dictatorships are being established, and when, in the various countries of the world, parliamentary institutions are being degraded in the opinion of the public, and destroyed. Even now, a movement is in progress in France - the home of a liberty-loving people - for the abolition of the parliamentary system. The Commonwealth Government has been subject to criticism, not only from the Labour party, but from its own supporters. I propose to read an extract from the  Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth,  by 
Quick and Garran, to support my contention that we should abstain from taking any action likely to degrade the Senate in the eyes of the people - 
The Senate is one of the most conspicuous, and unquestionably the most important, of all the federal features of the Constitution, using the word federal in the sense of linking together and uniting a number of co-equal political communities, under a common system of government. The Senate is not merely a branch of a bi-cameral Parliament; it is not merely a second chamber of revision and review representing the sober second thought of the nation, such as the House of Lords is supposed to bc; it is that, but something more than that. It is the  chamber  in which the States, considered as separate entities, and corporate parts of the Commonwealth, are represented. They are so represented for the purpose of enabling them to maintain and protect their constitutional rights against attempted invasions, and to give them every facility for the advocacy of their peculiar and special interests, as well as for the ventilation and consideration of their grievances. 
Hence the Senate is intended to fill an important role in the legislature of this country. The Labour party considers that it is grossly improper and derogatory to the Senate for the Government to proceed in the way it has done recently in endeavouring hurriedly to force legislation through Parliament. When the Senate does not meet for many months, people who are not aware of the duties performed by honorable senators in the recess, come to the conclusion that, after all, the parliamentary institution has become impotent, and some form of dictatorship exists in Australia. Undoubtedly, good grounds exist for this opinion. The Labour party believes in the abolition of the Senate, but we recognize also that, while the- Commonwealth is governed under the present constitution, we must uphold the Senate. This chamber should perform its duties to the full, and in no way should its functions be restricted. I realize that the Labour party has criticized the Senate in the past; we shall continue to criticize it until the present abuses are discontinued. 
The platform of the Labour party includes the abolition of this chamber; but, while the present federal system is retained, the party is keenly desirous of preserving the com plete rights of the Senate intact, and does not wish them to be usurped by the Government or private individuals. 
No. The Labour party has fostered the idea of a unitary form of government. We believe in unification, and when the people are prepared to introduce this system the Senatewill be abolished. But while the federal system continues with large and smaller States in existence, the Senate must enjoy its full rights, and no member of the Government should endeavour to weaken the chamber in the eyes of the people. 
I have already explained my attitude. Under the present federal system it is important that the Senate should function. But the Labour party, in advocating the abolition of the Senate, maintains that a unified form of government should be introduced. At present the Senate has become like the vermiform appendix in the. human body which, doctors state, is not of much use The Senate is not exercising its rights and powers as it should. Senators arc becoming too indifferent. I have contended that this chamber should spend more time in discussing the major problems of Australia and the world, in order to reach sensible and reasonable conclusions in regard to them. But, unfortunately, there always seems to be a desire on the part of the Government to seek the haven of recess as soon as possible. Why is this haste necessary ? Why should the Senate be a party to the mechanization of legislation in order .that legislators may get away from Canberra as rapidly as possible? I regret that the Senate is fast becoming a rubber stamp to register approval of the actions of the House of Representatives. 
Order ! The honorable senator has no right to refer to this chamber as a rubber stamp. 
But the electors have made it so. 
The expression is not parliamentary; so I ask the honorable senator not to use those words again. 
Many of the best friends of the Federal Government are among the numerous critics of the manner in which the work of the present session is being handled. Particularly, there is disapproval of the proposal to rush a number of important measures through the Parliament in order that it may rise by December 0 for the " Christmas Vacation ", which will be extended to long after Christmas. Only by the application of the guillotine, which is correctly described as " the gag " can the Government hope to complete the programme in the time stated, and this accompanied by exhaustive sittings. This is not the way in which the important work of the legislature should be performed. 
As I have observed, the  Telegraph  is opposed to Labour's policy. For that I do not blame it, because I do not deny the right of any person or newspaper to oppose Labour. The  Telegraph  goes on to say - 
It is very difficult to understand why there should be a particular wish to wind up the  Hession  by December 6, or by  any  date that involves haste. The " gag " at all times should be used sparingly. It is intended not to facilitate the operation of the Government nf the day so much as to terminate absolute obstruction, and only in such conditions should it be applied. We make a protest on behalf of the small Labour Opposition at Canberra, just as we have spoken for the small Nationalist Opposition in Queensland; but we take also the broader view that the work of any parliament is of such vital consequence that it should be performed with the greatestcare, in a leisurely manner rather than a rapid one; and that time and opportunity should be afforded to all the members, not only to thoroughly understand the measures before them, but also to freely discuss them from all angles. 
Most honorable senators will agree with that statement. It cannot be denied that members of the House of Representatives have been deprived of the opportunity to speak about matters of vital importance to their constituents, owing to the action of the Government in limiting the time allowed for the consideration of the Estimates.  Mr. Riordan,  the honorable member for Kennedy, has placed in my hand a pile of letters from constituents complaining of the unsatisfactory postal facilities in various parts of his division. He informed me that the time allowed for the consideration of the Estimates of the Postmaster-General's Department was so limited that he was unable to bring the matters complained of under the notice of the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Accordingly, he handed the letters to me with the request that I should do so when the Appropriation Bill was being discussed in this chamber. 
The action of the department in curtailing country postal services is grossly unfair to rural interests. In some districts mail services which were conducted twice a week have been reduced to once weekly ; in others where there was a mail once a fortnight, there is now a mail only once a month. 
Representatives,  Mr. Riordan  and other representatives of country electorates were denied the opportunity to air grievances which had been brought to their notice by their constituents. In this chamber, also, we are becoming accustomed to the application of the gag, but apparently  Senator McLeay  and his friends are satisfied; they do not object if honorable senators on this side are prevented from speaking. 1 warn him, however, that before many years have passed, the people of this country will have something to say about the manner' in which this Government is conducting the business in this Parliament. They are watching the passage of legislation, and because of propaganda that is being disseminated here and in other countries, there is increasing dissatisfaction with existing parliamentary institutions and governments which ignore the rights of the people. Unless I misread the signs of the times, the day of reckoning is not far distant. 
SenatorFoll. - But the honorable gentleman should stop flirting with  Senator Johnston. 
The third matter to which I direct attention is in relation to the decision of the Government to provide further accommodation for the GovernorGeneral elect. We are led to believe that it contemplates building two residences for  Sir Alexander  Hore-Ruthven - one in Melbourne and another in Sydney. 
Governor-General in certain capital cities, and it was thought that, when the Seat of Government was transferred to Canberra, one would be sufficient. According to  Hansard  of the 30th December, 1904, page 8301, ex-Senator Keating said - 
Why should the Commonwealth provide him with a house at an expense of £3,000 a year for the rare occasions when he. visites New South Wales? Wo should take a general stand against this expenditure, and determine that there shall be only one Governor-General's establishment, known as the Government House of the Commonwealth, and situated where the Seat of Government is. While -the Scat of Government remains temporarily in Victoria, the Commonwealth Government House should be. in Melbourne, and when a Federal Territory is chosen in New South Wales, and the Seat of Government is fixed there, .the Commonwealth Government House should be there, and there only. 
On the 25th November, 1905,  Hansard,  page 5825,  Senator Givens  moved - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to reduce the item " Sydney Government House" £2,585 by £2,000. 
In support of that motion, the honorable senator said - 
The proper place- of the official residence of the- Governor-General is. Melbourne, because, for the time being, it is the Seat of Government. Ultimately, of course, his official residence will be at the Federal Capital. When it is established, shall we be expected to maintain a separate establishment for His Excellency in Melbourne and Sydney, while we ignore other States capitals? It would be ridiculous to single out two States to be favoured in that way. 
Speaking on the same subject, the late  Sir Josiah  Symon is reported in  Hansard  of the 28th November, 1905, page 5815, as having said - 
I think, however,, that he ought to move a request to leave out the whole of the vote. . . . 
I wish, without elaborately arguing the matter, to give one reason why I think we ought not to continue this extravagance. . . . 
I do say, nevertheless, that it is extravagant to continue a second Government House at the public expense when - I will not say whether justly or not - the country is exclaiming against heavy Commonwealth expenditure. There is no necessity whatever for it. There is no more reason why we should have a second vice-regal palace constantly maintained than that we should have other official residences for His Excellency in Brisbane or in Adelaide. I should be sorry in a way to curtail expenditure that was requisite for maintaining official dignity; but I do not think that this expenditure is necessary. What is it for ? It is a mere piece of arrant humbug. 
In many parts of Australia, the workers are compelled to live in shacks, and if money is available for additional viceregal residences, a definite attempt should be made by the Government to provide houses for those who at present are living under deplorable conditions.- In travelling from Sydney to Brisbane, one cannot help noticing a number of shacks made of bags and scraps of tin in the vicinity of Casino. 
Dealing with the. subject of finance, I have said that the remission of taxes does not necessarily mean that additional employment will be provided. Earlier in this week I explained that if taxes remitted were paid into a bank and the money were not re-issued there would not necessarily be more employment than at present. I have also contended that the banks have certain power to issue credits which, after all,, are as good as money. I read an article in the August circular published by the Bank of New South Wales, dealing, with credit and economic recovery.. One. passage read - 
At the present time bank deposits in Australia are tending to. increase slowly, because trading banks' advances are expanding slowly from the low level to which the lack of willing borrowers had driven them during the depression. As advances expand, most of the money comes back to the bank in the form' of new deposits, although a little additional cas] is required for pocket money by the public,, for  till  money by the shops, &amp;c. Such expansion of advances as we have had in Australia since 1932 represents a movement towards recovery, and is generally recognized as evidence of our progress. But we have not yet reached normal employment. The latest trade union returns still show some 18 per cent, unemployed- 

 Senator Gibson, who is keenly interested in finance and dilates on the trials of mortgagees and mortgagors should study the contents of this interesting circular, which does not say that the remission of taxes has any bearing upon th© subject of employment. The article states that as recovery continues bank advances increase. It shows that whether the Government does or- does not remit property taxes, the hanks -will meet economic development with an expansion of credit. The articles continued - whereas in the nine years preceding 1929 the average was 8 per cent. This suggests that recovery, if not interrupted, has still a considerable distance to go. As recovery continues, so will the expansion of bank advances, and as bank advances expand, deposits, too, will rise. The banks can only allow deposits to expand without hindrance, so long as they hold sufficient liquid assets (cash and treasurybills) . . . 
What are liquid assets ? We have a lot to thank the banks for. 
The rate of interest is an important factor. 
The banks can invest current accounts in treasury-bills and get cash  for  those treasury-bills at any time .they wish. 
Those who advocate any measures such as funding of treasury-bills to reduce the banks' liquid resources must show that, despite the reduction they propose, it will still be possible for the banks to finance recovery up to the point necessary to reduce unemployment to normal. 
That statement also shows that limitations would be placed upon the hanking system of Australia if treasury-bills were funded. Such a step, it is claimed, would restrict the issue of credit which is so necessary for industrial recovery, and for the employment of our people. Dealing with the matter of interest rates, the writer of this article says - 
In addition to the above considerations, funding of treasury-bills tends to harden interests rates through the psychological effect upon the investor. 
That statement answers the argument advanced by  Senator Gibson.  Instead of being eager to relieve the wealthy class of this country by remitting taxes  Senator Gibson  should turn his attention to the banking system, which has power to issue sufficient credit for the development of Australia, even though the Government has to take some of that money for the purpose of carrying on its activities. 
Professor Cassel says that the banks can find the money by adopting a certain monetary policy, and in this pamphlet the Bank of New South Wales says that the policy of the Loan Council in funding treasury-bills runs contrary to the best interests of the people because, by that policy, treasury-bills upon which the issue of credit is based, are taken out of circulation. I take it that the Bank of New South Wales would be very pleased if  Senator Gibson  would show it where it is wrong in this respect. 
The Labour party has been accused of a lack of enthusiasm for a defence policy. 
One advantage about a debate of this nature is that an opportunity is afforded from time to time to vary or even change the subject. I propose to deal with several matters in which the electors of Western Australia are interested. 
The financial policy of the Government as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  in the House of Representatives has been referred to as being disappoint-  ing. I do not entirely agree with that view, although I admit that the policy does not contain all that we might have reasonably hoped for; but in that, perhaps, a wise precaution has been exercised. When our ship of finance was torpedoed a few years ago, the situation called for a government that was able to effect the requisite repairs. The saying of the hull was due entirely to the action of the Scullin Government which was then in power. The Government which succeeded it was entrusted with the duty of effecting repairs to the ship and with prudently testing the new fabric and machinery before committing it to any speed. That has been and is still being done. The ship is now gathering way and the adherence of the Government to the policy which brought the Lyons Ministry into power has certainly restored confidence and a considerable measure of our former prosperity. One wishes that the improvement were even more rapid, but it is recognized that outside factors have been a deterrent, and until they are further influenced in our favour, the ideal cannot be gained. We may extract some comfort from the figures that have been placed before us in the budget and other papers. They reveal that unemployment, a3 compared with 1932, has been so reduced as to be approaching the 50 per cent, mark of improvement. The building industry last year showed an advance of over 50 per cent, on the previous year, and in the same period factories absorbed no less than 45,000 additional hands. On the financial side, recent loan conversions have resulted in the saving of interest and exchange of nearly £3,000,000 a year while the interest hill  per capita  is now ls. 3d. less than it was thirteen years ago. Nor has the Commonwealth public debt been disregarded ; it is being steadily, if slowly, reduced. Despite the advantages gained, I join with honorable senators of all shades of political opinion in deploring that so many workless still remain in our midst, to whose assistance the community should be able to contribute. Particularly am I concerned for the younger generation. Appeals on their behalf have been made, but nothing concrete has been achieved. In the last financial year this Parliament voted a sum of £100,000 for afforestation in Western Australia, conditional on a proportion of it being devoted to absorbing some of the unemployed youth. Most unfortunately, the Commonwealth Government seems to have agreed to this proportion being diverted to some other channel, on the ground that it could not be usefully employed as had been proposed. 
That declaration from the States will bear investigation. I am sorry that the original intention with regard to this money was not pressed. 
The position of the taxpayers might be justifiably described as distressful; I make this statement despite what has been said by members of the Opposition. A large number of the heavy impositions resulting from the depression still remain with us. Under the financial emergency legislation, those engaged in business, trade and commerce have grievances approaching in gravity that of the unemployed. We have been told that with their aid the governments of Australia were able last year to establish a record in the financial history of the country. The collections of taxes amounted to over £93,500,000. Just imagine! That sum was extracted from less than 7,000,000 people! I ask honorable senators to judge of its effect in retarding business or the extension of factories, industrial undertakings and other enterprises productive of widespread employment. Government expenditure is not always reproductive - this we know - and the withholding of so much capital from its natural outlet must further postpone the condition of prosperity that is so desirable. To use words which were recently conveyed to me and which doubtless other honorable senators have also read - 
It is not so much a question whether governments can afford to remit taxation, but rather whether they can afford not to do  bo. 
To hark back for a moment, the  same  principle applies in regard to the taking of measures for the reduction of unemployment. I am not suggesting that these matters have not been considered by  the  Government, but I would  urge  the administration to grant further relief wherever and whenever possible. 
I not only commend the basis of the Government's budget, hut I also congratulate the administration itself on its evident intention to observe the policy which it announced prior to the last elections. For instance, agreements designed to create and improve overseas trade are being sought, and the tariff schedules are receiving the attention which they so sorely need, and which is so desired by many honorable senators. The difficult problem of rehabilitating the farming industry has been investigated, and a policy has been agreed upon for the fixation of a homeconsumption price for wheat. This was unanimously endorsed by representatives of all the States, and is to be the subject for early consideration by this and the State Parliaments. In themselves these are indeed advantageous achievements 
I welcome the decision of the Government to conduct an inquiry into the banking and monetary systems. The activities of the apostles of Douglas Social Credit, and the election propaganda of the Labour party rather shook the faith of some persons in the rectitude and usefulness of our well-tried financial institutions. 
The result of this inquiry will, I am sure, completely restore the confidence of the public. I trust that the findings of the royal commission will be conveyed to the people in some graphic or readily understood form. If that be done, the effect would negate any further attempt to undermine the foundations of the structure of public and private credit. 
I believe that the relations between the Commonwealth and the States have perceptibly improved recently, and for this better understanding there was plenty of room. The Commonwealth is a federation, and recent co-operation between it and the units is causing this to be appreciated. A glance at the figures relating to last year's expenditure reveals that of the revenue of £67,000,000 all but £4,500,000 was devoted to the interests of the States or to directions that inextricably concern the populations of the States. To administer the Commonwealth itself, therefore, cost the taxpayers of Australia only £4,500,000. Suggestions have been made that, in order to increase State revenues the Commonwealth should forsake entirely the field of direct taxation. I have yet to be convinced that such a step would be beneficial, and that it would not have the effect of indirectly increasing costs to the producer and the consumer who are already overburdened with a variety and multiplicity of loads. 
The Government is proceeding with its plans for the modernization and expansion of the defence system, and satisfactory developments are indicated. Recent occurrences abroad have amply demonstrated the wisdom of providing increased guarantees for our protection and ability to assume a full share of responsibility in the Empire scheme. Greater facilities should be devised for the more effective education and training of officers of the citizen land forces. Existing opportunities for acquiring a knowledge of  their  duties - even peace-time duties - are far too few. Command implies leadership: effective leadership is based on sound training and on knowledge and experience of men, weapons, equipment, material and terrain, together with that of their proper conservation and uses. In many of the officers holding appointments, such knowledge and experience is not so conspicuous as is desirable. The fault cannot be attributed to the officers. The drastic restriction of the votes for training purposes has closed many useful avenues of instruction, and the too hasty retirement of tried officers who served in the late war has removed a most valuable and helpful element. Some arrangement should be made whereby the plan originally advocated by General  Sir Edward  Hutton could be revived. This provided for the sending abroad of citizen force officers for six months' association with a unit during the training season in India, or Great Britain. It operated prior to 1914, and the subsequent record in the Great War of those officers who had the benefit of this training fully justified the experiment. Such a scheme should be revived or developed. If this be impracticable a suitable substitute would be the attachment of officers to a school of instruction or permanent unit in Australia. The period of tuition should not be less than three months. 
I commend the Government for its decision to re-establish the Royal Military College at Duntroon. It is wrong to condemn this institution because of its initial cost. The justification for its existence can only be assessed on its ultimate value. For whatever money has been expended on the college an adequate return has been received, and it can be discovered in the services rendered during the war by its graduates. Equivalent service continues to-day. In another five years, I suggest, the principal appointments connected with our land defence forces will be held by graduates who received their first military instruction in that college. One of the original objects in establishing a college was to produce officers who could fill such positions, and we are approaching the time when that objective will be realized. 
Every member of this Parliament must be, and I feel sure is, deeply concerned with the problems connected with the settlement and development of Northern Australia. I favour a continuance of the attention hitherto given to their solution. The position is by no means hopeless. In my opinion, adequate communications are a first essential. In the wireless broadcasting and aerial services already functioning we have some useful elements which are capable of much greater development. Same re-organization of the mail time-table between Daly Waters and Perth is imperative. At present, many benefits are denied to those residing between these termini. At the present time I do not advocate railway construction. It would be much more advantageous to devise and gradually carry out a system of trunk roads which would facilitate the movements of stock and carriage of goods as well as encourage visits from more settled districts. 
Then there is an issue which, in th, interests of sound, national finance and of the taxpayers and all members of the community should be dealt with without delay. I refer to the institution of some form of national insurance against old age, invalidity, sickness and unemployment. We hear many references to the ever-increasing burden on the people due to the payments made to old-age and invalid pensioners. In this connexion I wish to repeat what I said on a former occasion in this chamber, namely, that the time cannot be  far  distant when  a  choice will have to be made between fewer pensioners at the present rate of pensions and more pensioners at a lower rate. At present Australia has no definite plan  foi"  dealing with the contingencies of life, and there is imposed the natural consequence of unnecessary hardship, allied to which there is much suffering, to say nothing of overlapping or redundant functions and economic waste. Disabilities for which comprehensive legislative provision could be made are at present costing the community, directly and indirectly, enormous sums of money. Lack of co-ordination in the efforts of contributing authorities has unnecessarily increased the burden. In Australia we have rightly set ourselves a high standard of living. Our social services are constantly expanding. Racially and geographically, we  are  fortunately placed. In order to retain these advantages for all sections of the community, we should conserve our assets to the utmost. I trust that the Government will act, and act quickly in this direction. If a workable and effective scheme is placed before Parliament by the Government, it will for ever find  a  worthy place in the records of human affairs. 
I have already mentioned the improvement of the relations between the States and the Commonwealth. In order to maintain this improvement and strengthen even further the ties of amity and promote .efficient co-operation, I urge the Government to give effect to its promise to re-appoint the interstate commission. The preliminary work done by the Commonwealth Grants Commission is a most valuable contribution towards a complete understanding of the working of the Constitution, and with this as a basis a policy could be evolved that would make the interstate commission a body to which every State could refer its federal problems with every confidence. 
The motion for the first reading of the Appropriation Bill enables honorable senators to discuss many subjects. If we had not been fully seised of this fact before the commencement of the debate, it would have been borne in upon us by the observations of  many honorable senators who have preceded me. I was interested in the statement made by  Senator Johnston  this morning. The honorable senator indulged in what I may term a tirade against execessive  taxation which, he claimed, had been levied upon the people by the Commonwealth Government. Unfortunately he dealt with only one side of the national ledger - the taxation side - and omitted to mention in what respect expenditure could be reduced without interfering with important features of Government policy. While the Government has commitments which it cannot avoid, it must necessarily obtain the money from one of two sources - borrowing or the levying of taxes. 
The Opposition has complained that the Government is attempting to rush this legislation through with undue haste. Those who hold this view argue that if the Senate had not wasted valuable time earlier in the session, it would not now be necessary to suspend the Standing and Sessional Orders to expedite the passage of this bill, which involves the expenditure " of many millions of pounds. I do not subscribe to this view. The Appropriation Bill may be regarded aa a synopsis of all the legislation which this Parliament has had under consideration and passed since the commencement of the session. For example, when  Senator Johnston  this morning spoke of what he termed the excessive taxation which had been levied on the people, he overlooked the fact that yesterday afternoon the Senate dealt with an important feature of the Government's financial policy - the Income Tax Bill - and he had the opportunity then to say what he said this morning and also the opportunity to submit amendments to the Government's taxation proposals. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  this morning, in the course of a long speech, read numerous extracts from the Melbourne  Age  newspaper belittling the Senate, and, I regret to say, the honorable senator appeared to endorse what the  Age  said. 
Much may be said in defence of the Senate, and I consider it is a pity that senators do not more often take advantage of the opportunity to demonstrate to the people that the Senate is equal in importance to the House of  Representatives.  In this connexion I may be permitted to quote briefly the opinion of Quick and Garran as set out in the  Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth.  Their authority to speak on this subject is unchallengable. They say - 
The Senate is one of the most conspicuous, and unquestionably the most important, of all the federal features of the Constitution, using the word " federal " in the  sense  of linking together and uniting a number of co-equal, political communities under a common system of government. The Senate is not merely a branch of a bi-cameral Parliament, it is not merely a second chamber of revision and review representing the sober, second thought of the nation, such as' the House of Lords is supposed to be; it is that, but it is something more than that. It is the chamber in -which the States, considered as separate entities and corporate parts of the Commonwealth, are represented. They are so represented for the purpose of enabling them to maintain and protect their Constitutional rights against attempted invasions, and to give them every facility for the advocacy of their peculiar and special interests, as well as for the ventilation and consideration of their grievances. 
The Senate, in the past, has proved itself of immense value, but human nature being what it is, the people are prone to forget the services which this chamber has rendered to the nation. It is only now and then that the Senate, by insistence upon its right9 as a legislative chamber co-equal with the House of Representatives emphasizes its position under the Constitution. On three occasions during last 35 years the action of the Senate has saved Australia. The first occasion was in 1914, when a constitutional crisis had developed. The Senate asserted its authority in opposition to the wishes of the House of Representatives, which threatened that, if the Senate persisted in its attitude, there would be a double dissolution. The threat had no effect upon the Senate, however, and eventually the double dissolution took place. At the subsequent general election, the people of Australia endorsed the attitude of the Senate in every par-  ticular.  The second occasion on which the /Senate came to the rescue of Australia was in 1917, when the country was weary of war, and there was a grave danger that a policy of peaceatanyprice would be accepted. If it had not been for the Senate on that occasion, Australia would, I believe, have withdrawn from further participation in the war. I give every credit to Andrew Fisher, who, at the beginning of the war, promised that Australia would give every man and every shilling to the prosecution of the war until victory should be attained. It was proper that, as part of the great British Empire, Australia should stand by the Mother Country in time of crisis, but it was the action of the Senate in 1917 which kept Australia in the war. The third occasion was in 1931, when the financial crisis developed. We all know the direction in which the country was tending at that time, and no one knows it better than the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  It was this branch of the legislature which, on that occasion, cried " Halt ! ". It was this chamber which upset those financial schemes which, had they been put into effect, would have robbed us of the respect of the rest of the world, and deprived us of our reputation as a country which honours its bond. The Senate showed on those three occasions that it was the watchdog of our national honour. It has performed its duty unflinchingly in the past, and I am sure that it will continue to do so in the future should occasion arise. I once heard a man say that the Senate in Australia was very much like the British Navy, unobtrusive when it was not wanted, but always ready to perform its duty in time of need. I thought the comparison a very apt one. During the years prior to 1914, although we all claimed to bo Britishers, and loyal subjects of the King, very few of us knew much about the British Navy. We could not say where it was, or what it was doing, but when the war clouds loomed in 1914, the Navy sprang into activity, and became a most important factor in achieving victory. When peace returned in 1918, the Navy slipped back into obscurity and little was seen of it until just recently, when once more the international situation became threatening. In the same way the Senate, I am sure, can be relied upon to act when need arises. It would, I am convinced, be a mistake to abolish this branch of the legislature. 
I was interested to hear the speech of  Senator Johnston  to-day, in which he castigated this Government - indeed, all governments, I believe, but particularly the Federal Government - for allegedly collecting vast sums in taxation, and then wasting the money. When one looks at the matter dispassionately, however, one realizes that most of the revenue collected, with the exception of what is used to pay interest overseas, goes back to the people who contributed it, being disbursed in payments for various services. I suggest to the honorable senator that he should not indulge in a mere tirade of destructive criticism, but should put something constructive before the Senate. What does he suggest the Government should do? Does he suggest that we should abolish social services, that we should cut out invalid and old-age pensions? Is he in favour of abolishing war pensions, or of refusing treatment for sick or disabled members of the Australian Imperial Forces? Does he suggest that the Commonwealth should cease making grants to various industries, secondary and primary, or to State governments to assist their finances? The honorable senator suggested, so far as I could understand, that most of the revenue collected was poured down a sink, with the exception of about £8,000,000, which was stored away in the vaults. I do not know whether he has the idea that there is £8,000,000 lying in the cellars of this building. If so, I should like to know where it is. When he accuses the Government of extravagance it is only right that he should point out how savings may be effected. If the honorable senator analysed the national expenditure he would see that most of it is unavoidable. Unless he can suggest an alternative policy to that which the Government is pursuing, his criticism is unjustified and in bad taste. I was unable to learn from listening to him how one item of expenditure might be reduced or avoided. 
Until the honorable senator can offer some constructive suggestion, lie should remain silent. An alternative proposal could be submitted to him. If he claims that vast sums of money are raised by the Commonwealth, and that taxation is unnecessarily heavy, would he favour Western Australia foregoing the grant it receives from the Commonwealth Government in order that expenditure might be reduced? 
I listened with great interest to  Senator Brown  when he spoke this afternoon on the subject of defence. He said that the Australian Labour party believes in a defence policy, and that Australia should be defended. I am glad to have that admission from the honorable senator. He also said that the party to which he belongs supports a defence system different from that in operation today. He contends that some of the money expended on defence is wasted, and I am inclined to agree with him in respect of certain items. I do not admit, however, that there is any great waste, in view of the limited sum available to the Defence Department. I believe that in some directions the Government could obtain better value for the money it expends. He also regretted that the Government does not encourage gliding clubs, on which further money, he says, should be expended in order to inculcate airmindedness in our youth who, after experience, might eventually become members of the Air Force. I disagree, however, with the honorable senator when he quotes figures concerning the cost of maintaining the Royal Military College at Duntroon. In my opinion, and in the opinion of competent authorities, it was an error of judgment, and a costly mistake, to remove the college from Duntroon to the old barracks at Paddington,, which are entirely unsuitable. The figures he quoted are inaccurate. 
Yes. They gave an entirely false impression of the position. If we believe that we should have an army, a properly equipped military college at Duntroon is an absolute necessity. It is impossible to assess the value that Duntroon was or is to the 
Australian Military Forces. The first batch of 36 cadets who had graduated at the outbreak of war  passed  into the Australian Imperial Force. I knew quite a number of these young officers. Honorable senators who visit the old church of St. John's in Canberra, just across the plain, will see the beautiful brass tablet on the walls of that building, bearing the names of the Duntroon cadets, many of whom were mere boys and personal friends of mine, who gave their lives on Gallipoli or in France. I think that I am correct in saying that 19 of the 36 gave their lives for their country. 
As a regimental officer in the fourth brigade, I say that it is impossible to assess- the value of the military college which ha3 a great tradition, and is something of which we should be proud. The record of Duntroon in competitions with other military colleges throughout the Empire i3 most extraordinary. It shows what young Australians under training are capable of doing when they put their minds to the important task before them. Noncommissioned officers and regimental officers of the Australian Imperial Force were sent to the various army schools in France, and almost without exception the Australian officers or non-commissioned officers were at the top of the class. When we have such material at our disposal there is not much to worry about in the matter of defence.  Senator Brown  said that he fears the militarization of the people. He feels that there is an element of risk, and that there is something of which they have reason to be afraid. That is easily understood. The fear of the military is of old standing. I remind  Senator Brown  that the remedy lies in a citizen soldiery; let the citizens of the country themselves be the soldiers. It is interesting to go back to the times of the Greeks and the Romans. In Greece the heavily armed infantrymen, the hoplites, were members of a citizen force. They were not members of a regular or professional army, but citizens of the Greek republics. The day came when these citizens through sloth or easy living forsook their training, which kept them fit, and reliance had to he placed upon mercenaries.  After that the republics fell, and the tyrants used the army for their own purposes. Citizen soldier? provide the safeguards of a democracy. They have a vote and the welfare of the country is bound up with their strength, as in return for the privilege of a vote, they are prepared to fight and defend the country. I can well understand  Senator Brown's  inbred fear of the military.  His  mind doubtless goes back to the old days of riots and strikes when the " red coats " were turned out. They were a professional army, and simply did the job they were paid to do. In Australia, we have not had a professional army since the clays when a few foot regiments garrisoned this country. We are not likely to have such an army again because we cannot afford  it, and, furthermore, as  Senator Brown  quite rightly contends, our people have an inherent repugnance to a professional soldiery. That repugnance is instinctive in most Englishmen; a professional soldiery is abhorrent to their ideas of liberty and freedom. The solution of our defence problem, however and I point this out particularly to members of the Labour party, lies in the establishment of an adequate and efficient citizen soldiery. Such a system to be truly democratic and just and fair would have to be established through universal training, under which rich and poor, and high and low, with no exception, would fulfil their obligations to fit themselves by training to protect this country. 
Clause 51(6) of the Constitution of the Commonwealth reads - 
Tlie naval and military defence of the Commonwealth and of the several States, and the control of the forces to execute and maintain the laws of the Commonwealth. 
I propose briefly to examine the present position with regard to the defence of the Commonwealth. Because we British have always been peacefully inclined, the man who preaches the doctrine of preparedness for war is commonly regarded oy many people as meddlesome and a nuisance. Moreover, history demonstrates the fact that after every great war there is a general tendency to believe that trouble will not come again in thi same generation, and that, therefore, things military can take care of themselves. Further, we have the League of Nations, although some may think that those who rely on its effectiveness are  &amp;a  removed from cold hard fact as is my honorable friend  Senator Collings,  who believes in the wonderful power of talk, talk, and yet more talk to keep Australia inviolate. 
That is the inference I have drawn from the many dissertations which the honorable senator has made on this subject. The Estimates for the current year, on paper at least, provide for the strengthening and expansion of every arm of the services. It is proposed to expend £7,352,000 this year, which is a great advance on the expenditure last year, but I am disquieted, for no steps are being taken to increase the numbers of men in training on the army side. Thus, I believe that we shall not get full value for this expenditure. Since November, 1929,  we  have turned our backs on the principles laid down by the late Lord Kitchener, in his  Memorandum on the Defence of Australia  dated the 10th February, 1910, which holds good to-day more than ever. Kitchener pointed out that the British Navy might be engaged in a distant theatre of war and unable to render immediate aid to Australia in its day of emergency. He laid it down that - lt becomes the duty of all self -governing dominions to provide a military force adequate not only to deal promptly with any attempt at invasion, hut also to insure local safety and public confidence until British superiority at sea has been demonstrated and comprehensively asserted. 
The citizen military force planned by Lord Kitchener was not only to defend Australia against external aggression, but was also to " insure local safety ". The great field marshal evidently foresaw such a situation, as was recently foreshadowed by a speaker in Sydney, who urged the people " to turn any imperial war into a revolution ". 
The scheme, which was adopted by the Government on Kitchener's recommendation as being "necessary, adequate, and effective ", involved the creation of a citizen army with a peace strength of 80,000 trained soldiers, including 84 battalions of infantry - i.e., 21 brigades of four battalions each - 28 regiments of light horse, 49 four-gun field batteries, 7 signal companies and 14 companies of field engineers, with heavy and howitzer batteries. He very definitely warned the Australian Government that an efficient national force could be produced only by the patient work of years, and that " any divergence from the policy decided on may, and probably will, lead to chaos and useless expenditure of money". It may be said that, in stating that truth, Kitchener foresaw the fatal decision which, in November, 1929,  Mr. Scullin  made at the dictation of an ignorant labour caucus, to suspend the compulsory training provisions of the Defence Act, upon which the whole of the Kitchener plan depended for its efficiency. That decision was made in a hurry, and undoubtedly led to chaos and confusion in the defence forces. I speak with certainty, because I was a battalion commander at the time. It has also involved the useless expenditure of quite a large sum since that date. Kitchener's plan was designed to provide Australia with a citizen military force that would enable this country to bear the first onset of an enemy's attack, and hold up the forces of the aggressor until the British Navy could come to its assistance. I submit that the soundness of Kitchener's strategical principles is not invalidated by the instruments of warfare that have been developed since he wrote that memorandum in 1910. Two of those new instruments of warfare are, aircraft, which was practically unknown in 1910, and fast long-range cruisers. These have accelerated the speed with which an attack may be launched, and have made it more imperative than was the case when Kitchener visited Australia for the Commonwealth to possess a force capable of holding up the first assault of an enemy. In truth, the need for the possession of such a force is more pressing to-day than it was in 1910, because, I submit, the political conditions have undergone a change for the worse. The Anglo-Japanese alliance was in existence in 1910 and up to 1921. Its termination has created an entirely different situation for the Commonwealth. In the years 1914 to 1918, thanks to that alliance, it was possible for Australia to denude itself of a very large proportion of its fighting males and transport them to the battlefields of the old world. Today, however, the defence of Australia itself must be the first care of the military personnel. The following. view was expressed by  Sir George  Pearce, then Minister for Defence, in an outline of the policy of the Government which he gave in the course of an address that he delivered to members of the Millions Club in Sydney, in September, 1933 - 
Our navy is designed to police our trade routes and oppose minor raids, but if the cooperation of the main British fleet is not available should an enemy attempt a largescale attack or invasion of our shores, then it is on the army and the manhood of the mass that we must depend to drive off the invader. 
A few days later the announcement appeared in the press that the Government would probably reintroduce the system of compulsory military training in the following year. That was a vain hope. 
I am not afraid of the people; on the contrary, I want to protect them. To be afraid to do the right thing because one may be defeated at the next elections, is a cowardly doctrine to espouse. The honorable senator would probably take refuge in a hollow log until his attacker pulled him out and turned him into a slave. As he is approaching the " sere and yellow ", his worth as a slave would probably be accounted as insufficient to warrant keeping him alive, and he would be knocked on the head. Fear of the mob ; fear of the vote - what a splendid doctrine! It implies that we must not expound the principle that the assumption of responsibilities goes hand in hand with the enjoyment of rights and privileges; that a man who is not prepared to take up arms in defence of his country when it is attacked is not worthy to be entrusted with the exercise of the franchise. I do not preach the doctrine of military domination or cast-iron tyrannous discipline. I want Australia to be a free country. But I do desire that its manhood shall be men in every sense of the term, men who, when the time comes - as come it surely will if we do not fill our empty spaces - will stand up straight, clean, and true in defence of their women and children. It is a poor dog that will not fight for its own bone. Selfpreservation is inherent in animals as well as in men and even a wolf bitch will give her life for her pup. Members of the animal kingdom are always prepared to engage in a " scrap ". If a nation is not prepared to "scrap", it deserves to go down. Right through the pages of history, for as far back as one cares to look, it will be found that a nation that would not stand up to its obligations, that would not fight and strive, has inevitably had to make way for a more heroic, a more virile, race. The re-introduction of compulsory military training was a vain hope, for Part XII. of the Defence Act remains a dead letter, notwithstanding the ghastly failure that voluntary enlistment has proved to be over the last six years. Many men had given a good deal of time and thought voluntarily to the service of their country - and in a humble way I was one of them - and, when universal training was swept away in 1929, they did their level best to induce men to join the voluntary force, and so maintain its strength. The minimum establishment was only 35,000 men; but we have never approached that number, notwithstanding the various inducements offered.  Senator Plain  will remember that the Melbourne Scottish Regiment was permitted to wear kilts in order to stimulate recruiting among Scotsmen. With all respect to  Senator Plain  and his fellow Scotsmen, I submit that that uniform is not an Australian dress. The uniform of the Australian soldier is well-known in Europe, Palestine, and elsewhere., and is feared and respected by all. 
Apart from other considerations, the voluntary system is manifestly unfair and undemocratic. Why should men be asked to give up their time in the service of the slacker, the shirker, and the worthless? The underlying principle of the Kitchener scheme - a scheme eminently suited to the needs of Australia - was its democratic nature. It meant that a reserve of trained, or partially-trained, men would be built up patiently year by year, until, as time passed, - the position gradually improved. With a voluntary system that cannot be done, because everything is left to chance, and the whim of die moment. Since the shameful abandonment of the Kitchener scheme, our military defence force has been a sham and a delusion. It consists of a militia of barely 27,000 men, scattered over a continent, and, for all practical purposes, has little fighting value. The prospect of increasing that force . to its meagre establishment of 35,000 men by voluntary enlistment is nil. All the expedients that have been tried during the last six years have failed. Similar expedients, if adopted in the future, will fail also. But, even if it were possible, by voluntary enlistment, to get 35,000 men in training, it would fail, for under such an antiquated and unfair system, no reserves are being built up, whereas under the Kitchener scheme 15,000 men who had complied with Part XII. of the Defence Act, and completed their training, passed into the reserve every year. That scheme was economical, practicable, and eminently suitable to the needs of a democracy like ours. Australia could not afford, and did not want,, a standing army. There is in Australians an ingrained hatred of any agency which might be used to attack our liberty. Democracy can flourish only when every man is a citizen soldier and can fight. There is no danger of a tyrant capturing the army and using it for his own purposes when the army consists of a citizen soldiery. The men themselves will see to that. When the citizens of Rome gave up arms and depended on hired mercenaries, the Republic fell, Rome came under the power of the Caesars, and tryanny was rampant. And so it has been throughout the ages. No system could be -more democratic than that upon which Australia embarked in 1911. A man who claims to be a citizen must accept the duty to serve in his country's defence, and pass through that training which will make its armies strong enough to protect it. Every citizen, whether rich or poor, humble or exalted, has an equal obligation to serve. He cannot buy himself out. The period of service under the Kitchener scheme was only seven years. That scheme meant that many more men would receive the essential training in the use  of weapons than is possible under any voluntary system, and thus a formidable reserve would be built up. If we except the ex-members of the Australian Imperial Force, whose fighting value is now slight, Australia has no reserve army. Without the removal of the unwise suspension hastily imposed by the Scullin Government, when it was suffering from myopia, the creation of an Australian citizen army is impossible. That is my considered judgment, after having been in close association with the military forces of this country for over 30 years. After six years' trial of the unfair voluntary system the Government must know that that is so. Why, then, does it not act? 
A citizen army could be made possible in a few minutes by the issue of an ordinance from the Executive Council. 
Australia has an obligation to itself, to Britain and also to the League of Nations, of which it is a member, to provide for its own defence. Not until that obligation has been fully satisfied can Australia contribute any force to fight the battles of the League elsewhere. The duty to defend Australia rests with the Government and the manhood of this country. Iu the address which  Senator Sir George  Pearce delivered to the Millions Club in Sydney two years ago, he said that it was " on the army and the manhood of the mass that we most depend." If that be so the outlook is dark and gloomy indeed for the army, if such it may be called, is the merest skeleton and the manhood of the mass is untrained and undisciplined and would be quite useless as a fighting force. I tremble to think what would happen to the manhood of the mass if this country were attacked. That the bulk of them would attempt to fight I do not doubt, because I know my fellow Australians. But I have seen what happens to undisciplined hordes which come into conflict with disciplined forces a  iv1  I shiver to think of the bloody and horrible shambles that would follow. The greater the pluck and bravery of the undisciplined forces, the more hideous and frightful would be the slaughter. It would be a criminal and wicked thing to send untrained men into action, but that is what would happen if this country were attacked. To talk about the manhood of the mass, and the fighting age of our men is the uttermost nonsense and fatuous piffle. If it came to war, untrained, undisciplined and unorganized forces would be in a hopeless position. 
The means to alter this state of affairs is in our own hands. The Kitchener scheme of universal training proved its efficacy in the stress of war. It was tested and not found to be wanting.  It  is the veriest nonsense to affirm, as do so many pacifists, that a country like Australia, which produces foodstuffs and raw materials in abundance for clothing and munitions, and is the home of more than 2,000,000 men of fighting age, could, not be successfully defended against an aggressor if suitable measures were adopted to provide weapons for, and impart military training - and teach true discipline to, its manhood. These things could be done. Suitable measures could undoubtedly be taken successfully to defend Australia.  I  conceive it to be the duty of the Commonwealth Government, irrespective of its political views, to undertake this responsibility. The first duty of any Commonwealth Government is to take adequate measures for the- defence of the country. If the people were told the truth, that without universal military training an adequate and effective army for the defence of Australia is impossible, they would respond. They have responded previously when a call has been made upon their loyalty, and they would do so again; but they must be told the truth. What are they being told to-day? What does the press "dish up " to the people day after day in the form of war news? The "piffle" which has been published in the last seven or eight weeks under the guise of war news is an insult to our intelligence. It is " utter tripe ". 
The question is: Are we prepared to face the issue? Do the people of Australia wish to make provision for the defence of this country in case an  aggressor should attack it ? Are they content that probably the richest plum on the tree should be left there to be shaken down by anyone who has the strength to do it? If our people are told the truth, I have no fear of the result. They will, I am sure, stand up to the obligations of their citizenship, and be prepared to do what they may reasonably be expected to do for the defence of this country. Is it such a nauseous dose - such a frightful medicine - that they are asked to swallow? The only thing for us to do, if we expect to be regarded as a self-respecting people, capable of defending ourselves, is to take adequate measures for our own protection. If we do not do so, who else will bo likely to do it for us? It is our obligation and duty, as well as  our proud privilege, to take the necessary action for the defence of this country. Any nation or civilized community which falls below the level of self-sacrifice and idealism and becomes dead to the necessity for defending itself, is finished and will inevitably be replaced by a more heroic people. 
I have been told, on some occasions, that the great distances of this country and its extraordinarily long coast-line, make it beyond our capacity to provide for its defence, but the problem is not so intricate and difficult as many would lead us to believe it to be. I remember that 60,000 farmers withstood the whole might of the British Empire for two years and nine months, and even at the end of that time were not entirely defeated. This country can be defended. It would be a most perilous undertaking for any nation to attempt to invade and subjugate Australia if we provided means for our own defence and trained our manhood in the use of them. I have tried sometimes, as I have studied the history of the last war and other wars, to visualize what would have happened in Belgium had certain measures been possible for its protection when the Germans invaded it in 1914. We know that in both Europe and America about the time of the outbreak of the war, a great problem was facing the governments of various countries as to how to deal with motor bandits. I have tried to visualize the effect upon the invading German armies if, as their hosts had marched into 
Belgium and the north of France in the early days of the war in 1914, there had been available a force of 15,000 or 20,000 more or less untrained civilians who were expert in the use of the rifle and machine gun and they tad had at their disposal 4,000 or 5,000 motor cars. They could very effectively have torn into the flanks of the  invading hordes and harassed them by sharp-shooting and bursts of machine gun fire. I do not say that they would have defeated the invaders, but at least they would have hampered them and by causing large detachments to be detailed to deal with the menace would have reduced the rate of advance. Hence one method for the defence of Australia may be found in machines - six-wheeled cross-country motor lorries, not to mention ordinary motor cars and machine guns; but that presupposes adequate and ample fuel supplies. However, methods of warfare are constantly changing; nobody can say what form the war of the future will take. But I do submit that the mettle of our people ensures that Australia can be defended. To say that Australians cannot defend their own land, and that they have not the pluck and that when trouble occurs they will make for the hills and hide in hollow logs is to libel our people. I would sooner be a little dog in a gutter, or dead, than submit to such a cowardly doctrine. Has the spirit of the pioneers, our fathers, departed? Of course not. In the absence of a small standing army, which we do not need and, in any case, cannot afford, we should give our people a chance to, defend themselves when the occasion inevitably arises, as it inevitably must arise. ' The pressure of the population of other countries and other factors will bring a challenge to us sooner or later and I desire to be sure that my sons will have a fighting chance. I do not want them to be led to the slaughter like a flock of sheep. This opportunity can only be created by the re-introduction of Part XII. of the Defence Act. I urge the Government, with all the force and sincerity I possess, to' do that. Otherwise, as  Senator Brown  has said, large sums of money will be wasted, and we shall not be getting value for our expenditure. 

 Senator J. V. MacDONALD (Queensland [5.12]. - I had not intended to discuss matters of defence, but having listened to the long and interesting statement on that subject by  Senator Sampson,  I propose to make a few observations. Perhaps I can throw a bouquet at  Senator Sampson  without fear of disturbing the equanimity of other military gentlemen in this House. He is the most interesting senator to listen to on matters of defence. He has made a study of it and has practical experience to support his theories. 
Some are facts and some are not, according to my experience. Twenty-three years ago I took up a responsible position in the Labour movement and was required to advocate the Labour policy of compulsory training. Some people, particularly pacifists who had come to Australia from the Old Country and who viewed with horror what they termed the inculcation in the juvenile mind of warlike ideas, strongly disagreed with me. I support the view expressed by  Senator Sampson  that Australia must be defended. No matter how much we may wish for the practical demonstration of true Christian ideals, this world still contains many bad people, and we must be able to give as much as we are required to take. At the same time it is a melancholy fact that the day eventually comes when the greatest of fighting races - probably the British is the greatest fighting race of the world at present - sink into oblivion. History 'for thousands of years is one continual story of the rise and fall of empires. We must be sobered by that fact when considering the necessity for defending ourselves. Quite a substantial body in the Labour movement to-day favours a system of compulsory training. I belong to that section, and for a very good reason. Many years ago, when I was attacked for my advocacy of compulsory training which was then the orthodox policy of the Labour party, I used to retort that my studies of history had demonstrated to me that compulsory training was a thoroughly sound principle. The masses of the people 50 years ago went in constant dread of a standing army, which constituted a very great danger, because it created a military caste. I was pleased to hear  Senator Sampson  say that he did not favour a military caste, and I would be thoroughly ashamed to hear any Australian speak otherwise. The Labour party represents the masses and so we should be in favour of making every man a soldier, not for offence and wars of conquest, but to defend his hearth and home. Another reason for this policy lies in the fact that tyrants come from within the borders of a country as well as from without, and the masses may be obliged to defend themselves from an autocrat, a despot of the Mussolini type. I have always adopted that stand, because my knowledge of history taught me that a universallytrained population is better for the country than a military caste. My experience covers several countries - Australia, New Zealand and the Old Country - and in the latter I saw impressive evidence of what  a standing army means. In my opinion a universallytrained population is necessary for the preservation of democracy. Admittedly the Labour movement no longer holds this idea, and I have accepted the change because it is not vital. After the last " war to end war," many men became convinced that the world-wide experience of the horrors of war would prevent a recrudescence of such a catastrophe in Europe within a hundred years. The general attitude throughout Australia, as a result of this idea, was that the Government could substantially reduce expenditure for defence purposes.  Senator Sampson  castigated the Scullin Government for having made heavy cuts in defence expenditure, but I would remind him of the fact that it was confronted with a gap of £20,000,000 between income and expenditure, and savings had to be made. The Defence Department suffered severely as the result of those savings, but the step had to be taken, as, if expenditure had not been reduced substantially, Australia would not have been able to " pay the butcher and the baker". The depression in Australia was brought about to a large extent by the fact that Britain refused to continue to lend Australia money at the rate of £30,000,000 a year, and other countries refused to maintain purchases of our goods. Towards meeting the situation universal training was abolished. 
 That is so, but I venture the suggestion that if there was assurance that war would not come to Australia, a meeting representative of Government supporters in this chamber would also reject a similar motion. From a study of history, I am convinced that a system of universal training is the best for any country. An important step towards the adequate defence of Australia would be taken by increasing the population of the Northern Territory, but I should point out that for the defence of a country a satisfied population is necessary. The country which is worth fighting for and dying for, is the country in which the people are satisfied. 
Thousands of Australian men thought so in the last war ; but Australia could be made mote worthy of sacrifice by its people than at present. I shall proceed to make that point. As  Senator Collings  has stated, there are hundreds of thousands of men in this country who cannot get a job.  Senator Collett  read figures in support of his claim that the employment conditions in one State had improved by 50 per cent, since the depression began. Admittedly, there has been improvement, but it cannot be denied that 300,000 Australian men, women, youths, and girls are workless to-day. For most of my life I have been fortunate enough to have work, but I have suffered unemployment, and know that it is a desolate condition. "We cannot all be farmers, like  Senator Cooper,  or barristers, like the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan).  Nor can we all be shopkeepers. Napoleon once described England as a race of shop keepers, but he was not correct. Some people have to use the pick, the shovel, the axe, and the hammer. They are wage-earners. They are sometimes described as wage slaves, but I object to the term; in Australia we have no slavery. I claim, however, that if the Commonwealth were an organized State there would be no such thing as inconstant employment. Jobs would be found for every man and woman to suit individual capacities. If such a state of affairs were brought about we should have a satisfied population, and the best means for defence that could be imagined. The Irish rebellion was due to a dissatisfied population in Ireland. It might have had even more dangerous consequences for Britain, when it was engaged in European war, than did occur. A satisfied national element in Ireland possibly would have averted the Irish rebellion, but also present in the country was a dissatisfied labour element, international in outlook, and not caring about the racial side of the war. Its dissatisfaction lay against the economic aspect. The rebellion forced Britain to send to Ireland troops to keep the peace, but had the Irish people been thoroughly satisfied with their economic conditions, the troops need not have been diverted from Europe at a time when the allied forces were in dire peril of defeat. 
Perfection is impossible of achievement,  but to  a very much greater extent than exists to-day, harmony could be achieved in this country. In the opinion of many martial-minded persons  Senator Collings  is an extremist, but if contentment were brought to the people, there would not be very many of his type. The necessity for the. school of thought represented by him would disappear. 
More people are wanted in Australia. The Labour party is accused often of being opposed to increasing Australia's population, but the charge is false. 
Members of the Labour party want to see the population of Australia increased greatly, but not so that the 300,000 unemployed  will be increased by other Australians. We should like to see people brought here and settled in useful occupations, creating wealth, but not ousting from employment Australian men and women who are in work at the present time. 
I have received a letter from, the Camooweal Railway Extension League asking honorable senators to oppose the leasing of large areas in the north-eastern part of the Northern Territory. The secretary, in a covering note, says - 30th October, 1935. 

 Senator J. V. MacDonald, 
Parliament, 
Canberra. 
Dear  Sir, 
Chartered Company Northern Territory. 
I am directed to inform you that I have addresseda letter, on the above subject, to  Mr. G.  W. Martens and  Mr. D.  Riordan, the North Queensland members in the House of Representatives, and to enclose with this a copy of the letter for your information with the request that you may see your way to protect the Commonwealth from the locking up of such a valuable extensive area and delaying a closer settlement scheme which is the objective of the several governments in Australia, and of such very great importance to the country. 
North Queensland is particularly affected for the reason that the area referred tois adjacent to our northern western country, for which we look for closer settlement and development. 
Commending the foregoing to your active co-operation and protection. 
Yours faithfully 
B. Marks, 
Secretary. 
Two or three years ago a scheme was ' under consideration for the purpose of inducing chartered companies from overseas to take up a large area of country in the Northern Territory. This Parliament was asked to sanction the scheme, and practically to relinquish all control over the area. No doubt the idea was dropped because of the criticism which it aroused. 
The hostile criticism which was aroused probably led to the abandonment of the proposal. The interested parties inquired as to the Labour party's attitude to it, and were informed that the party was entirely opposed to it. The land which it was proposed to lease comprised approximately 100,000 square miles, or about six times the area of Tasmania. 
Possibly the land that would be offered to them would be regarded as worthless. I am reminded of the reply given by Mussolini when he was recently offered certain territory on the borders of Abyssinia. He said - " First I am offered Danakil, a desert of rock, and now I am asked to take Ogaden, a desert of sand ". Statements are made in foreign countries from time to time to the effect that the Australians are a selfish people because, although their population is less than 7,000,000, they have huge areas of undeveloped lands which are flowing with milk and honey. It is of importance to us that these false reports should be contradicted in the Parliament and through the press, and that it should be made clear that the large unoccupied areas in northern Australia are mostly unsuitable for closer settlement. The Secretary of the Camooweal Railway Extension League states - 
It is noticed that representations have been made to the Federal Government to lease the entire north-east portion of the Northern Territory, approximating 100,000 square miles, which the company proposes to develop, establishing meat works at Vanderline Island. 
My league strongly protests against locking up such an extensive area of country in the proposed scheme, and urge that consideration bc given to suitable subdivision, into smaller holdings, to encourage closer settlement, for sheep to meet the growing demand for merino wool. The experience in Queensland on every occasion when such country is thrown open for selection, hundreds apply. 
It appears that endeavour has beebmade to set out that the main object of the company is to demonstrate that the Northern Territory can be developed by private enterprise. This sounds very well, but this private enterprise is linked up with the entire financial responsibility of the Commonwealth Government, the parties taking no risk. The borrowing of £1,000,000, the existing lessees whose leases are running out more or less, to have the leases renewed for a period of 60 years, free of all rents, rates, taxes and other government charges, &amp;c, at the expiration of which the Government is also required to pay the assessed values of the assets created by the company; all development carried out and paid for by tlie Government also to be handed over to the company. 
Tlie nut position would mean a heavy subsidy to thu cattle grazier and the erection of additional experimental works for treatment. The proposal may bc likened to the failure at Wyndham, which it is understood has, up to the present, resulted in a financial loss of £1,000,000 with . a negligible floating population. 
I hope that before any attempt is made to hand over to private' interests large areas in the Northern Territory, the Parliament will be afforded an opportunity to consider the proposal.  Some  people argue that, to be properly developed, the northern portion of Australia must be populated by coloured people, but they are more dangerous to Australia than coloured people. Our experience in Northern Queensland, where there is a large population of white people engaged in profitable production, gives the lie direct to this false contention. 
Recently, we had a discussion in this chamber concerning members of unlawful associations, but I think it was proved to the satisfaction of most honorable senators that there are no such organizations in this country. It is true that there is a number of Communists, some of them are to be found in Queensland where they give a certain amount of trouble to the Labour party, particularly during an election campaign. The Government allows them to stand as candidates believing, no doubt, that when the results of polls are announced, it will collect the £25 which each candidate has to deposit with the returning officer as a guarantee of good faith. 
Honorable senators on this side might have adopted a different attitude if the Government could have shown the necessity for that legislation. As I have said, Communists cause a good deal of trouble to Labour candidates during elections. I was in the unfortunate position on one occasion of having, as my opponent, a Communist who, I had reason to believe, was put up by the United Australia party because of the damage which he would do to my chance of election. This man was supposed to have come from Mexico where he was reputed to have led a wild life as a gunman, and he endeavoured to persuade the electors that he was the only genuine Labour man offering. As it happened, I was defeated by only about 100 votes. He did the job and ensured the return of a good solid Nationalist candidate. 
I repeat that the most effective defence measures which we can adopt is to encourage the settlement of a greater white population in our tropical areas.  Sir Raphael  Cilento, the Director of Tropical Hygiene, ha3 established that under proper living conditions the white race suffers no appreciable deterioration in the tropics. About six months ago, in a lecture delivered at the Australian Institute of Anatomy, in Canberra, he pointed out that there was a greater proportion of white population living in the Australian tropics than in any other tropical country, and that white men and women of the second and third generation could live there without any deterioration to their physical or mental fitness, or their fertility. What we require there for the defence of that portion of the 'continent is satisfied homogeneous white population. But this objective will not be achieved by chartered companies with liberty to employ coloured labour at low rates of wages in order that they may show a profit on their undertaking. 
There has been some reference, in the course of this debate, to the position occupied by the Senate in the passing of our legislation.  Senator Brown,  I understand, quoted the opinion of  Sir Robert  Garran, one of the authors of  tho Annotated Constitution,  in support of hi3 view that the Senate has co-equal powers with the House of Representatives, and that it is in fact, independent of the other branch of the legislature. I agree with that opinion, but I am afraid that, in practice this chamber has been shorn of a great deal of its legislative functions and now is too much, under subjection to the House of Representatives. 
We are expected to accept legislation which is thrown at us at any time it is thought fit -by another place. If we exercise our right to criticize any of the Government's proposals, the Leader of the 
Senate  (Senator Pearce)  at once feels aggrieved. He was quite sour this afternoon when  Senator Sampson  rose to air his views on the subject of defence. 
The honorable senator is digressing from the subjectmatter of the bill. 
I may correct the honorable senator by saying that I am not under the domination of honorable members of the House of Representatives. 
The process of electing the presiding officers is not mentioned in the bill. 
V. MacDONALD- As it is the practice of the Senate to rise at 4 o'clock on a Friday, this is the worst day on which the Government should wish to proceed with the bill. 
I am not yet wound up. I ask leave to continue my remarks. 
I resent the statement of the Minister. 
If the Leader of the Senate saw the notes that I have prepared he would not say that I am wasting time. I know that some members of my own party regard this chamber as an appendage of the other chamber, and that we only wait for the bones thrown to us, which we are expected to dispose of as quickly as possible. 
I am not doing that. I am seeking to increase its importance. 
The Government should consider some system under which the voting strength of Australia could be more effectively represented in this chamber and so make the debating strength of the parties more proportionate. Without going into the subject at length, I should say that a majority vote, for any party in a State should entitle that party to two out of three seats contested at an election. The minority vote thus carrying one seat. 
For instance, the Communists may start by voting for the Communist candidate, and give their preferences to the Labour candidates in the proportion of two to one. Only when the candidates with the smallest number of votes are eliminated do the effective votes become apparent, and these are divided between the candidates of the two major parties. Of these two parties the one receiving the smaller number of votes would be the minority party. I suggest that my proposal is practicable, and would overcome our present difficulties. Small sectional candidates may object to it, but broadly speaking, the election should be fought as between the policy of the Government and the policy of the Opposition, or,should so tremendous a land-slide in public opinion occur to warrant it, on the policy also of any other party which may be considered as a major party. I understand that the Government intends to introduce an electoral bill before the next federal election. If it does so, I hope it will take the opportunity to do something along the lines I have suggested. A large body of public opinion is in favour of the proposal I have described. It would go a long way to removing the farce which was witnessed in 1919-22 when the Labour party was represented in this chamber by only one honorable senator. On another occasion the Opposition in this chamber, when it consisted of members of the party now in power, was composed of only five out of 36 senators. Thus this is not a party matter. 
I think so. After all most of us realize that wo are here, as it were, only for to-day. The Leader of the Government, for instance, has seen, so many good and true men pass on from this Senate in the 34 years he has been an honorable senator, that at times he must grow melancholy. 
I desire also to direct attention to another matter whichI claim to be of the greatest importance to the electors of Australia as a whole. Perhaps my two colleagues will not accept my remarks on this point wholeheartedly, but no doubt they will agree with me in principle. Under the present system the position of groups of party candidates on the ballotpaper is decided on the basis of alphabetical sequence. This should not bo so. Senators McLeay, Allan MacDonald, James McLachlan and E. B. Johnston who have just emerged successfully from an election fray, despite the fact that in alphabetical order their names appeared some distance down the ballot-paper, may not agree with me, but the worst instance in this respect was afforded in Tasmania, where the elected candidates had to survive all sorts of cross voting.  Senator J.  B. Hayes will bear me out in that statement. Owing to this system, many people in Queensland to-day, and I suppose it is much the same in other States, have a fixed idea that the position of their names at the top of the ballot-paper guarantees candidates from 20,000 to 30,000 votes. I do not think the advantage is as great, as that, but it constitutes a travesty on our preferential voting system, when it is possible for such things to happen. 
It would certainly be better than the present method. It is a fixed idea that parties must secure candidates whose names start with one of the first letters of the alphabet, and this leads to special picking based on the first letter in a candidate's name. 
I would not say that there was any picking in that case. 
I am referring to this matter in a general way, but am quite ready to do as the honorable senator suggests. Before  the  next election I may have to face a party ballot, and be defeated because of the fact that many good Labour people believe that the party will not have a chance at the polls unless its candidates, because of the initial letter in their surnames, gain for them the top place on the ballotpaper. They might, for instance, prefer to pick three men, each of whose names begin with " A ". I have brought these matters before the Senate in all seriousness. I point out that our opportunities to discuss such matters are very limited. This Opposition has not got a reputation for moving the adjournment of the Senate in order to discuss certain matters which they cannot fully debate under, ordinary circumstances. This matter will have to be faced. The position of two or three Ministers in the Senate is similar to that which I am supposed . to occupy. Farcical circumstances are developing, and unless steps are taken to rectify the position we whose names begin with a letter that is low in the alphabet will bc changing them with the idea of improving our chances of being elected, as  Mr. Seabrook,  of Tasmania, did when he had his name changed to Ceabrook.  An article in a reputable Sydney newspaper, contributed by a gentleman who describes himself as " A Barrister ", commences with the following humorous anecdote - 
A story is told of a new boy at Sunday school who was being tested in  Ms knowledge  of catechism by a devout teacher. He waa asked his name, and the reply was " Clarence Claude Percy ". The next question, of course was "who gave you those names?" and the dignified teacher, expecting the prayer-book  reply about godfathers and godmothers being responsible, was horrified to hear the justifiable outburst, " Wouldn't I just like to know ? ". 
Many of us whose names begin with a letter from D to Z would very much like to know who gave them to us. However it is assuring to know that a name may be changed fairly easily. His Majesty the King has changed his name. One. method is by deed poll, 'registered at a Supreme Court or the RegistrarGeneral's Department. 
I resent that remark, following as it does upon the allegation of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that I was wasting time. If  Senator Johnston  must have his dinner let him go to it. The Minister has refused to grant me leave to continue my remarks. For weeks I have been preparing notes so that I might mako a contribution to this debate, and I have pertinent matters to place before the Senate. I also stood down this afternoon when  Senator Sampson  and other Government supporters wished to speak. The article from which I have quoted mentions methods by which a name may be changed, and then goes on to say - 
But even the above methods are not necessary if a man desires to change Iiia name. Ho can merely tell his friends or advertise the fact, and that is all that is required. 
When I attended school the scholars were taught something of the geography of Denmark as well as Australia and other countries. My teacher thought it remarkable, and mentioned the fact to us, that the only town in tlie world which began with two A's was Aarhus, in Denmark. I should not be astonished if a number of political candidates changed their name to Aaron so as to be placed at the top of the ballot-paper. Aarhus might also be usefully employed. 
I pass now to the matter  of unemployment. No measure should be discussed without reference being made to that fearful curse, which constitutes a challenge not only to our democracy but also to the high state of civilization which we are supposed to have reached. There are other ways of improving the situation apart from loans and grants to the States for the temporary absorption of some of the unemployed. Considerable relief would be afforded by the establishment of a plant for the extraction of oil from coal. This is a matter to which the Minister in charge of Development  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  has given quite a lot of attention. I bring to the notice of the Government the following paragraph from a letter sent to the Brisbane  Daily Sandard  by a returned soldier.' - 
Welcome news of the success of Imperial Chemical Industries' plant at Billingham, Durham, has recently reached . Australia, and in view of our potentialities in this respect we can be forgiven for asking if this wonderful avenue will remain unexplored. 
Billingham, after six months' activity, can already absorb the output of 1950 miners. Translated into Australian terms this would moan in Queensland or Victoria an increase of nearly 100 per cent. ; to Western Australia and Tasmania, with their respective figures of 782 and 371 miners, anundreamed of expansion; to New South Wales a return to its palmiest days of export and bunker tonnage which the advent of the oil-driven and motor ships has robbed her of. 
Every nerve should be strained to make unnecessary the importation of foreign oil.  Senator Sampson  spoke for a long period in regard to defence. In the Italo-Abyssinian dispute the latest example of what is termed French hesitancy is in relation to its support of the attitude of Great Britain concerning oil supplies for Italy. It is feared that if oil is placed on the list to which sanctions apply, Italy will regard that as an act of war. One of the greatest problems confronting Australia is the provision of adequate supplies of oil fuel. I therefore ask the Minister to do his utmost to make Australia independent of outside supplies of this necessary commodity. In various parts of the Commonwealth large deposits of coal are known to exist - there are said to be 443,000,000 tons of coal at Blair Athol, in, Queensland - and if these could be converted into oil not only would the defence of this country be made more secure but also the problem of unemployment would be nearer to a solution. As in the case of the experiments, with chilled beef, the experiments at Billingham-on-Tees are not conclusive, but the success which has attended them gives rise to the hope that a wonderful new era with great prospects for more employment and prosperity in Australia is about to be ushered in. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Foll)  adjourned. 
The sessional Order provides that at 4 p.m. on Fridays I shall put the question " That the Senate do now adjourn ". Although that hour has passed, I now put the question. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
When honorable senators were asked to sit until 6 o'clock they willingly agreed to do so. I should like to know why the sitting has continued until 6.30 o'clock. 
[6.35]. -  in reply  - The sitting was extended beyond 6 o'clock in order to enable  Senator J.  V. MacDonald to conclude his speech. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Leader of the Senate able to make a statement concerning the present disastrous shipping strike? In the event of the strike continuing, what actiondoes the Government propose to take to maintain an effective shipping service between interstate ports? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Government has the matter under its close consideration. The honorable senator may rest assured that the Government has certain action in contemplation, but it is awaiting the result of the meeting of seamen being held in Sydney to-day. 
No pressure was brought to bear upon the Government, but certain representations were made to it. Regarding the honorable senator's questions as to whether broadcasting should be controlled by legislation instead of by regulation, I may explain that the position is somewhat uncertain. The Commonwealth Government may not have the constitutional power to deal with broadcasting. This matter is now before the High Court, and the judgment in  Williams'  case, which was heard twelve months ago, is now being re-argued and the result is awaited with interest. Until the result of that case is known, it is impossible to frame legislation to meet the position. 
Will the Leader of the Senate make a statement embodying the latest information in the possession of the Government on the Italo-Abyssinian dispute before the Senate adjourns for the Christmas holidays? 
Can the Leader of the Senate give a reason for the continued delay in submitting the complementary legislation necessary to finalize Australia's position under the Statute of Westminster ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The question involves a matter of Government policy, pronouncements upon which are not usually made by way of replies to questions. The subject should be raised on some other occasion. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior whether he has observed statements published in various newspapers to the effect that as the result of representations madeby the United 
Country party the Ministry has given preliminary consideration to proposals to effect a change in the system of voting at Senate elections in order to give the people more satisfactory representation in this chamber, and that the Minister for the Interior has been requested by Cabinet to report on the defects of the present system ? If the Minister has observed such reports will he state whether they are correct? If they are not correct in what particulars are they incorrect? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I do not propose to edit journalistic fiction. 
This report was published in several daily newspapers. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable senator has endeavoured in a direct way to influence me to make a statement on policy. I do not propose to do so. 
askedthe Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
In view of the criticism of the policy of transferring revenue to trust funds contained in the last annual report of the AuditorGeneral, and the attitude to  Mr. Cerruty's  views on the matter by economists (including Professor F. A. Bland, Professor of Public Administration in the Faculty of Economics, Sydney University), taxpayers' and other associations, the leading press, and the public of Australia, is it the intention of the Government to discontinue a practice which the Auditor General describes as " unnecessary and confusing" and "quite opposed to orthodox accounting, commercial practice, and commonsense " ? 
If not, why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
and 2. The attention of the honorable senator is invited to a statement made by the Acting Treasurer on the 20th March, 1934, and a further statement by the Treasurer on the loth November, 1935. In both these statements, copies of which will be found in  Hansard,  the criticisms of the Auditor General relating to the practice of transferring revenues to trust funds are dealt with. The Government does not propose to discontinue that practice. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to the following statement regarding wheat legislation made by the AttorneyGeneral of New South Wales  (Mr. Manning)  in the Legislative Council on the 19th instant: "During the last few days the Premier has been in touch with the Commonwealth Government on the question whether this legislation should apply to the present harvest and in view of the discussion this Government has decided to inform thu House that this act shall not be made applicable to this harvest, and it is thought in consequence that the flour tax will be continued meanwhile " ? 
Is it correct that the Commonwealth Government requested the holding over of the operation of the State wheat legislation in Now South Wales, until next year, as stated by  Mr. Manning? 
If not, what requests were made to the Government of New South Wales in the discussions referred to by  Mr. Manning? 
Yos. 
No. 
No request was made to the Government of New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is the value of phosphate licks for sheep being investigated by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research? 
Did the Council authorize a statement made by the Secretary  (Mr. G. Lightfoot)  and reported in a recent issue of the  Pastoral Review  as follows : - " Large sums of money are spent annually in Australia on these licks. In order to carry out the proposed experiments, it will be necessary to have field stations in different parts of the Commonwealth. Probably about six will be required, two in New South Wales, and one each in Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and probably Tasmania"? 
Is it the intention of the Council to exclude Western Australia from the proposed investigation ? 
If not, will one of the field stations to which reference is made be established in that State? 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Since the statement referred to in (2) was issued, the Council has been in touch with the Director of Agriculture of Western Australia,  Mr. G.  L. Sutton, and arrangements have been made for work to be carried out on phosphate licks at one of the experimental farms in Western Australia, probably at Avondale. 
See reply to (3). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to proceedings in the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia on the 12th instant, when the probability of the Royal Dutch Airways extending their service to Australia, via Wyndham, was discussed? 
ls it the intention of the Federal Government to equip properly the air port at Wyndham, and make it up to date for overseas aircraft? 
If so, when? : 
If not, why not? 
The Minister for Defence has received from the honorable senator a copy of the  Votes and Proceedings  of the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia for Tuesday, the 12th November, which indicates that the Western Australian Government has been in negotiation with Dutch Air Line Company, but his department has as yet no particulars of those negotiations nor any direct knowledge of the intention of the Royal Dutch Airways  to extend their service to Australia. 2, 3 and 4. An aerodrome is available at Wyndham and this is of ample size for any type of aircraft under  dry conditions. A runway for use under wet conditions is under construction, and sufficient of this is now completed to enable the aircraft used by the MacRobertson-Miller Aviation Company to operate from this ground during the forthcoming wet season. 
The honorable senator is, of course, aware that the Government accepted the advice of an expert committee in adopting Darwin as the port of entry for the official air route to Australia, and pursuant to that decision hm provided at Darwin wireless and other facilities for the Timor Sea crossing. The Government has no present intention of incurring the considerable expenditure which would be involved in duplicating such facilities. - 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Government given consideration to the request made by the Premier of Western Australia for a grant from the Commonwealth  of one-third of the cost of an up-to-date dock, to be erected at Fremantle, Western Australia ? 
What decision has been arrived at in the matter ?  (Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers: - 1 and 2. As indicated in a reply furnished to the honorable senator on the 28th March, 1935, the Government Of Western Australia, in submitting to the Commonwealth Government a list of works which it suggested should be undertaken to relieve the unemployment position, included provision for a dock at Fremantle at an estimated cost of £1,000,000. This proposal has received consideration, but it has not been possible for the  Commonwealth  to make the requisite funds available. 
.- I wish to supplement the remarks made last Friday by  Senator Johnston  regarding the necessity for a reduction of the various forms of emergency taxation imposed on the people of Australia during the last few years. In the depth of the depression, various forms of direct and indirect taxes were imposed on the people of this country, not only by the Commonwealth Government, but also by the various State governments, each of which gave an assurance that, as such legislation was merely an emergency means of raising additional revenue, it would be removed so soon as circumstances permitted. One reason for the imposition of new forms of taxes was the decline of customs revenue and, indeed, of revenue from all the sources then being tapped. Among the purely emergency measures introduced into this Parliament by the Scullin Government and its successor were primage duty, the special property tax, and the sales tax.  Senator Johnston  pointed out that last year these taxes yielded £14,000,000. I give the present Commonwealth Government credit for having reduced taxes ; but surely something is wrong when taxes which were imposed in an emergency bring £14,000,000 to the Treasury in a year in which we boast that Australia has, to a great extent, recovered its financial stability. In my opinion, the sales tax is one of the most iniquitous taxes ever imposed by an Australian Parliament. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The honorable senator is not in order in reflecting on an act of this Parliament, unless he intends to move for its repeal. 
I withdraw my statement, and say that no other tax causes so much irritation as does the sales tax. I am continually in receipt of letters from people who have been prosecuted for some trivial breach of the regulations under the sales tax laws. I am convinced that, in the majority of cases, the persons concerned had no desire to evade payment of the tax and that their failure to pay was the result of an oversight. The sales tax is irksome, not only because it adds 5 per cent, to the cost of goods, but also because it entails a considerable amount of accountancy work and increases overhead expenses. Furthermore, in order that a tax of 5 per cent, may be paid to the Treasury, the management of a business has often to increase the price of an article by so much as 10 per cent. Bad debts and the accountancy entailed in compiling the necessary returns for the Taxation Department have a'lso to be taken into consideration. Hence much irritation is associated with the sales tax legislation, and I hope that the Government, in view of its abounding revenues, will take an early opportunity to abolish this imposition. Another form of tax levied by the Government as an emergency measure is the primage duty. I fail to discover any reason why this impost should be permitted to remain for another day on the statute-book. In this morning's issue of the  Sydney Morning Herald  a paragraph appeared relating to the customs revenue returns - 
For the first five " months of the financial year, customs and excise revenue, £17,307,133, was greater by £1,231,101 than that for tha live months ended November 30, 1934, £] 0,070,032; and exceeded the estimate, £15,770,000 by £1,537,133. The revenue from the same source last month was £3.508,991, which was greater by £254,400 than that for November, 1934, £3.254,591. 
I remind honorable senators that in addition to the emergency taxation imposed by the Federal Government, the Treasurers of the various States have also adopted special measures to increase their revenues. Various forms of relief taxation, by means of imposts on salaries and wages, have been levied by every State in Australia; in Queensland the tax is nearly ls. in the  SI,  and. I believe that much the same rate applies in other States. There can be no real recovery in' commerce in Australia until the onerous burden of taxation is lifted from the shoulders of those engaged in industry. Appeal after appeal has been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  the Treasurer  (Mr, Casey)  and others administrating the affairs of this country urging private enterprise to absorb an increasing number of the unemployed. 
Time and again these gentlemen have declared that the policy of the Government is to assist in the rehabilitation of commerce ; but I venture to say that there can be no real rehabilitation of industry in Australia until the burden of taxes now being borne by industry is considerably reduced. Governments are continually bringing forward budgets in which the Treasurer glories in the fact that he is able to expend more on this department and on that department. I would be much more gratified to see them making substantial reductions of every form of taxation. Such methods would, I believe, finally bring to those government.0 practically as much revenue as they collect at the present time by heavy taxes which retard recovery. A few years ago, the Commonwealth Government brought down what was probably one of the best budgets ever submitted in this country. It proposed a reduction of taxes by nearly £8,000,000, and was a definite gesture of the Government's good intentions towards rehabilitating industry. The result was an immediate response on the part of industry itself, and that is one of the reasons why revenue has been booming and unemployment decreasing. 
A common occurrence in the financial procedure of Australian governments, Federal and State, is for special taxes to be imposed, and the people are told that the object of them is to meet a certain emergency. Barely, however, "are such emergency imposts lifted. I do not agree with the policy that seems to be gaining ground in Australia, by which the Commonwealth Government becomes the' principal taxing authority for the purpose of providing revenue, not only for its own requirements, but also for making available grants to the States for various purposes. I believe that every government should have the responsibility of collecting the money it expends. During the last few years, the practice has grown up of the Commonwealth Government raising millions of pounds a year more than it requires for its own purposes, and returning a large portion of it to the States by different forms of grants. A much sounder and better policy in the interests of the State governments themselves would be for the 
Federal Government to vacate certain fields of taxation, leaving them to the States, whose governments would then be responsible to the taxpayers for raising the moneys which they spend. Lately the Premiers and Treasurers of the States have met in conference with the Federal Treasurer to devise programmes of expenditure for the forthcoming financial year, not merely deciding what their loan requirements will be for the year, but also demanding that the Commonwealth shall pay for this and that requirement which is solely the responsibility of the State governments. The Government which is spending the money should bear the responsibility for the raising of it. In my opinion, the Federal Constitution never envisaged the possibility of the Commonwealth Government becoming the principal taxing authority in order to distribute to the various States the money to be expended by them. An extraordinary increase of revenue has taken place in practically every Commonwealth department during the last few months, very largely due to the sound administrative methods of the present Government, and partly due to reductions of taxes in previous years. I am oldfashioned enough to believe that the less the taxation and governmental restriction that are placed on commerce and industry, the greater will be the reward in increasing employment and general prosperity. 
A statement was made by  Senator Collings  on the 15th November last, in which he referred to the industrial position in the Northern Territory. He said - 
Some years ago I travelled north from Brisbane with a representative of Vesteys, who should be com petent to speak on the subject, and as the conversation occurred many years agoI shall not bo breaking any confidence if I disclose the information then given to me. I asked if it was true that Vesteys had closed down their meat works in the Northern Territory because of the extravagant demands of labour. After denying the statement he said that the company could afford to pay any reasonable wages but at that time it did not suit them to carry on inAustralia because they could make bigger profits from their operations in Argentina. 
During the week-end I discussed this matter with some of those respon- sible for developmental work in the Northern Territory, and I have been assured that it was the continual demands made on the company by its employees in Darwin that determined it to close down the works. This view is supported by a letter, written in 1925 by the managing director of Vestey's in Australia to the Administrator of the Northern Territory, in the course of which he said - 
Following upon our conversation during the visit of  Mr. Rowlands,  and the writer on the 20th ult., we beg to advise that on the experience of working costs shown by present operations, there is no immediate possibility of a permanent re-opening of the works. We were prepared for a loss on the boiling down operations, but labour and other costs have been so much above reasonable expectation as to show conclusively that to freeze stock under present conditions would be to lose large sums as compared with what the stock is worth as store stock, or shippers on the hoof. - The expert labour brought from south is efficient, but very expensive in that we have had in this case to pay their fares and travelling time on top of the 25 per cent, premium upon Queensland award rates of pay. 
The local labour is in many cases very inefficient, and on that account more costly, because it also receives the premium of 25 per cent. 
I saw Vestey's works in Darwin before they were closed down, and I have seen them since, and I am convinced that the company was not treated fairly. Those who are best acquainted with the history of events in the north have no doubt that it was the harassing tactics of the employees, together with the decline of the price of beef, which caused the company to cease operations in Australia. Landholders in the north, naturally, resent statements by  Senator Collings,  and by members' of the House of Representatives that they are holding large tracts of country which they make no attempt to develop. As for Vestey's, we know that no company would be prepared to expend £2,000,000 on an enterprise which it did not at the time intend to prosecute to the best of its ability. 
That makes the position worse. We should encourage people with capital to interest themselves inthe Northern Territory. We should welcome them with open arms, and assist their efforts to the best of our ability. Those who are prepared to bring capital to Australia for the development of unsettled areas are public benefactors. 
It has been suggested that no attempt has been made by this company to popularize primary products on the English market. I have here a number of photographs picturing displays of Australian mutton and beef in the Smithfield market in London, and they show that everything was done to put Australian products before the public in the most attractive form.  Senator Collings  has already seen these photographs. 
SenatorFOLL. - The display was arranged by "Weddell and Company Limited, a subsidiary company of Vestey's. One photograph pictures an excellent display of a shipment of new season's lamb from South Australia. Everything was done to make the display as attractive as possible, and it was evident that the company was proud of the fact that it was able to export from Australia lamb equal to that produced in any other part of the world. 
That is so. New ships have been built, and specially fitted with chilled space, to carry Australian beef and mutton overseas so that it may realize the best price obtainable on the British market. It ill becomes us to belittle the work of firms which are doing so much for the Australian export trade. Another photograph shows a display of chilled beef raised by Mace and Son, of Turilla Station, near Rockhampton, in the State which  Senator Collings  and T have the honour to represent in this chamber. The beef is of very even quality, and is a credit to Australia. It is evident that Australian graziers can produce beef entirely suitable for the British market. I trust that in future charges of the kind we have had to listen to recently will not be made, unless there is some foundation for them. When I was in England this year, I found that a great many persons with capital were seeking investments in Australia and to other parts of the Empire. If ever we are to develop this country properly we must encourage the introduction of overseas capital, because we cannot succeed if we depend entirely on our own resources. We must look to our kinsmen overseas to supply the capital and population which we lack. Although much is now being done to advertise Australian products abroad, our trade rivals such as Argentina, Denmark, and New Zealand have done more, and the fact that they are able to obtain better prices for their products than we do is due largely to the fact that they have kept the virtues of their products continually before the buying public. They have not been content merely to raise the produce, ship it overseas, and let it take its chance on the market. They have advertised the goods, and insisted upon uniform grades. 
I conclude by expressing the hope that it will be possible for the Government, in its next budget, to make provision for a further reduction of taxes on all sections of the community. 
If it were possible to lift more taxes off the shoulders of the people, I am sure the Government would gladly do it. For some years now, industry has been greatly harassed by Federal, State and municipal taxes. A substantial reduction of these imposts would do much to rehabilitate Australian primary and secondary industries. 
.- At the outset, I pay a tribute to  Senator Sampson  - I feel that I may do this without making invidious distinctions - for the excellent speech which he , delivered last week upon the defence of Australia. I am sure that we all were impressed with the wealth of detail which he furnished to the Senate, and I much regret that his remarks were not given the publicity which they deserved, because the defence of Australia is of vital importance to all sections of the people and no member of this chamber is more qualified to speak on this important subject than is my Tasmanian colleague. I hope that, even now, the newspapers of Australia will give publicity to the valuable contribution to this debate, made by  'Senator Sampson.  The scant attention given to his important utterances causes me to wonder whither we as a nation are drifting. I also deplore the deliberate attempt, on the part of many public speakers, to mislead the people of Australia with regard to the urgent need for the more adequate defence of this country. Whenever senators on this side dare to suggest the necessity for more adequate defence measures, we are at once charged with being warmongers, the implication being that we desire the outbreak of another war. Nothing is further from the thoughts of those who advocate the efficient training of our youth. I have on many occasions declared that no country is blessed in greater measure than Australia, and I hope that the day is not far distant when all sections of the people will be fully alive to the need for its adequate defence. If we deliberately closed our eyes to the danger of leaving this, country practically undefended, we should be guilty of a crime against the people who entrusted us with the great responsibility of safeguarding their inheritance. There can be no better preparation for good citizenship than the training of the youth of a country with a view to its defence. Only in this way can they be expected to appreciate the value of discipline, and the obligation which they owe to their native land. I congratulate  Senator Sampson  upon his thoughtful speech and I sincerely hope that his observations will be fruitful of good results in the near future. 
The vexed subject of taxation has been referred to by a number of honorable senators, including  Senator Poll,  who has just resumed his seat. A few days ago, I took the trouble to peruse the  Ilansard  debate of the discussion which took place when the first income tax bill was introduced in the House of Representatives and I read the speeches delivered by the then leader of the Government, the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes)  and also by  Sir Joseph  Cook. As honorable senators are probably aware, the income tax was levied for the definite purpose of meeting extraordinary war expenditure, but our experience is that a tax once imposed is rarely removed. The burden of the income tax has been felt with increased severity. 
So has the cost of the war. 
Many people would be glad to pay £1,000 a year in income tax. 
I 1, ave just returned from a holiday abroad, and seven months lived in England. We  found  it very difficult to purchase Australian butter. When occasionally in London one did find our product, which was sold for 9J per lb., and never once exceeded Hid., whilst almost everywhere New Zealand butter was retailing at ls. and ls. Id. When inquiring repeatedly for Australian butter, we were offered " Blended Empire ", and it was explained to us that it was mixed butter from all over the Empire, which we found most unsatisfactory for table 11Fe. We are sending these fact* thinking they may be interesting to  you  " Blended Empire " butter is cheaper than New Zealand butter. 
That letter, which was written by an Australian who visited Great Britain recently, contains direct evidence of the  fact that the conditions under which Australian butter is marketed in the Old Country are unsatisfactory. I trust that the Government and those interested in this subject will conduct further investigations so that Australian butter may be able to compete successfully with the New Zealand product. I maintain that as Australian factories can produce butter equal to that made in any part of the world, there is no reason why the conditions mentioned in the letter which I have read should prevail. 
Some time ago, I directed the attention of the Senate to our unsatisfactory population figures. Recently I read an article in the  Age  newspaper by  Sir Stanley  Argyle, an ex-Premier of Victoria, who recently visited Great Britain. He said - 
Australia's population was becoming stationary, and we could not hope to defend ourselves against foreign aggression . in the event of a world conflagration unless our population was increased. It was not necessary to repeat the ghastly experiment of assisted migration, which failed so lamentably in Victoria, but there was a case for Australians and Englishmen to study the possibility of better distribution of the Empire's population. In Britain the area of arable land had decreased in the last century by nearly 50 per cent, to6,000,000 acres. Britain grew only one-sixth of her wheat requirements, half of the barley, 15 per cent, of the butter, 40 per cent, of beef, 50 per cent, of eggs, and 50 per cent, of mutton and lamb requirements. We could take greater advantage of the market by reducing our purchases from countries outside the Empire. Suggestions had been made in England that English capitalists might be induced to put money into dominion development schemes which could be guaranteed by the British Government for the first few years. The dominions would be asked merely to make the land available, and the British chartered companies would supply the money for development purposes so that chains of small villages composed of immigrants could be formed to market their produce through one organization. The scheme would repay examination. 
That is an excellent suggestion, and I trust that the Commonwealth Government will communicate with the British Government to see if the proposal cannot be adopted. No time should be lost in formulating a plan for the permanent increase of Australia's population. Some time ago, I referred to the success which has attended the Fairbridge farm school in Western Australia. I understand that 98 per cent, of the4,000 or 5,000 children who have passed through that school have become excellent citizens. There is room for similar farm schools in every State of the Commonwealth, and I believe that if the Government would approach the British authorities, a large proportion of the finance necessary would be provided by the British Government. I was glad to noticethat  Sir William  Campion, a former Governor of Western Australia, is to visit the Commonwealth on a mission of this character. I mention the subject in the hope that the Government will get in touch with this gentleman and see what can be done by the Commonwealth in co-operation with, the British Government and the State governments. 
I now wish to refer to the subject of afforestation. A few months ago, I visited Japan, where I noticed that probably the whole of the land unsuitable for cultivation is being used for afforestation purposes. I was informed that large sums of revenue are now being received through the commercial exploitation of forests established by the Japanese many years ago. Our afforestation policy should be pursued more vigorously than at present. There is ample room for a scheme similar to that in operation in Japan, and if proper safeguards are taken to ensure the maintenance of forests, and to protect them from bushfires, it should be remunerative. A forestry league initiated in Australia some years ago performed fine work, but unfortunately, through lack of interest it is not now functioning as successfullyas one would wish. I do not wish to deal with the benefits to be derived from afforestation, or with the dangers arising from soil erosion, because they are well known to honorable senators. I submit these suggestions in the hope that the Government will proceed more vigorously with the scheme it introduced some time ago. 
I direct the attention of the Government to the manner in which the revenue for the first five months of the current financial year has been under-estimated. Honorable senators are aware that for that period the revenue from customs and excise was £1,250,000 in excess of the estimate. This has an important bearing on the trade balance between Australia and Great Britain which will have to be dealt with at an early date. It will be remembered that the adverse trade balance in 1934 was £11,000,000, which had to be met from funds in London. I understand that at the end of 1935, the adverse trade balance will be approximately £16,000,000. London funds cannot be utilized indefinitely to meet the difference in our trade figures. In studying the statistics of trade between Australia and the United Kingdom it will be found that while our exports are about stationary, imports increased in value by £5,500,000. In implementing the Ottawa agreement, Australia has honoured its obligations; but drastic steps will have to be taken to protect Australia's credit. "We cannot continue purchasing goods of a greater value than we export. I do not wish to deal with our protective policy, or the value of our secondary industries in providing employment, but we have to realize that steps must be taken to ensure that the value of the goods we export balances imports. 
Australia should consume 70 per cent, instead of 60 per cent, of the goods it produces. 
I rose more particularly to refer to the sales tax. I differ entirely from  Senator Foll  and some other honorable senators, because I believe that the sales tax, apart from the inconvenience which it causes certain traders, is a better means of raising revenue than is income tax, land tax, property tax. or almost any other form of tax. It has been said that this tax deprives industry of capital and prevents employment; but apart from the slight inconvenience caused to business men - this has been practically overcome - .the sales tax is the fairest way to raise revenue. 
No. It is spread over such a large number of persons that the amount which each pays is insignificant. That is not only my personal opinion; it is also the opinion of a large body of taxpayers throughout Aus. tralia. Practically the whole of Australian manufacturers say that they would prefer the sales tax to a super tax on incomes or a property tax. They contend that it would be in the best interests of trade and of employment if the money now paid as taxes on income and on property were invested in industry. I differ from  Senator Foll  and others who have been misled concerning the alleged inconveniences caused in the collection of the sales tax. This tax is borne fairly equitably by all sections of the community. 
With  Senator Foll  and other honorable senators, I am alarmed at the distribution of revenue as between the Commonwealth and the States; a better method will have to be devised in order to put the finances of the States on a sound and permanent footing. The States should not have continually to come to the Commonwealth Government pleading poverty, and claiming that they cannot carry on without the aid of large grants from the federal exchequer. I was somewhat amused at the attitude of one honorable senator from Western Australia, who praised the Western Australian Government for restoring the salaries of its public servants, and, at the same time, blamed the Commonwealth Government for not making a similar restoration to Commonwealth public servants. He completely ignored the fact that the Western Australian Government was enabled to make this generous gesture by the special grants it received from this Parliament! 
Much has been said by honorable senators of all parties concerning the opinion held of this Senate by the people of Australia generally. There is a good deal of truth in the report that this chamber has suffered in the eyes of the general public, and that to-day it does not stand quite so high in the estimation of the people as it di'd previously. I may be wrong in this statement. If, however, the Senate has fallen in public estimation, the fault lies with honorable senators themselves; if we do not respect our positions as members of this chamber we cannot expect people outside to respect us. No self-respecting body of legislators would put up with the inconveniences under which honorable senators have to attend to their duties. The private member of this Senate has no privileges at all. For instance, I have two rabbit burrows in a dark hole of this building in which to keep my official papers. In my private business I am used to sitting at a desk equipped with a telephone and drawers for my papers. Certainly we have a club room, but this is used by 36 honorable senators,, and is furnished with only five desks. 
That is not so. Should I desire to provide myself in this building with a change of clothing or shoes, or an umbrella - and, in view of the changeable weather in Canberra this often becomes essential - I am unable to do so, because I am not supplied with the necessary lockers or cupboards. 
Last week, when I desired to confer with one of my friends on a certain tariff schedule, I had to rely on the courtesy of a member of the House of Representatives, who had by main force commandeered a room for himself in the basement. Only through his courtesy was I able to confer with my friend. Such conditions should not exist. Private members of this chamber should have facilities equal to those which they would have were they working in their own offices. This is essential if honorable senators are to carry on their work properly. Such facilities should be provided for us, not as a matter of favour or privilege, but as a right. You,  Mr. President,  have a suite of rooms at your disposal, where you may shed your official dignity and robes and relax into your normal self - a genial Irish gentleman. Ministers in this chamber, as well as officers and messengers, also have suites of rooms at their disposal. The comfort of everybody except private members of this chamber seems to be catered for. The three honorable senators who compose the Opposition have three rooms between them. If I lay out my papers on a desk in the Senate club room, in preparation for work in this chamber, and am suddenly called away, I have to dump my papers into a bag. I repeat that honorable senators cannot be expected to carry on their work properly under such conditions. Members of the House of Representatives also, I understand, are in much the same position. 
Until we, as members of a deliberative assembly, have our rights recognized the outside public will not respect us. On last Thursday a new tariff schedule was tabled in the House of Representatives. It directly affected the interests of many people whom I represent, and probably the interests of millions of people in Australia. Yet, when I applied for a copy of that schedule on the day on which it was tabled, I was told that it was not available. However, copies were distributed to members of the House of Representatives, and, I understand, to the press and certain members of the outside public also. "When Melbourne people asked me by telephone to secure a copy of this schedule with the relevant tariff reports I had to reply that they were not available to me as an honorable senator. Is this a proper way to treat honorable senators? Furthermore, if honorable senators are to win and maintain the respect of the outside public they will have to carry on the business of this chamber in a less hurried fashion than has been the practice during this session. Repeatedly bills have been rushed through this chamber on the day on which honorable senators first received copies of them. I know that we have been hurried this session because the passage of certain measures had to 'be expedited, but to enable this chamber to do its work effectively honorable senators must be given sufficient time to study in detail measures which are to be dealt with in this chamber. My remarks may seem to be in tho nature of a tirade, but I feel that I had to speak frankly on these matters ; I have merely described conditions as they exist. 
I desire to touch upon several matters on which I had no opportunity to speak during the debate on the budget papers. Foremost amongst them is tho major problem of unemployment -which has exercised the minds of all honorable senators, and has caused them a good deal of concern. All of us agree that this great problem transcends all other problems with which we as honorable senators have to deal. Unanimously, we recognize the devastating effect which unemployment has on those unfortunate people who are caught within its tentacles. The worst feature of unemployment, however, is its effect upon the youth of the community. Continuous and enforced idleness breeds indolence, laziness and worse ; yet many of our young people who have reached the age of 22 or 23 years have never played any part in the development of this great country, noi' have they been given an opportunity to render useful service in industry. "Worse still, there does not appear to be any hope for a section of these unfortunate youths. Many of them have had no experience whatever in industry with the result that vacancies, when they do occur, are usually filled by juniors, and these young men are passed over. To solve this problem we have to do one of two things - either recast our industrial laws in order to give these young men a chance, or influence the Commonwealth Government, or the State governments, to subsidize industry to enable it to carry these unfortunate young men in employment. 
First, the apprenticeship laws. These need recasting because they are a fatal bar to the lad of nineteen in search of a job. 
Yes. In making these remarks I have been actuated solely by the plight of young men who have been deprived of the opportunity of securing employment. If the Leader of the  Opposition  (Senator Collings)  feels that the youths of Australia are getting a fair " go " in this respect I would be glad to hear him explain the grounds of his satisfaction. I am convinced that they are not getting a fair "go", and it is the duty of this Parliament to see that they do. Any constructive suggestion which the Leader of the Opposition may have to offer will be readily appreciated by all members of this chamber. 
That is not so. Unfortunately, honorable senators never hear any constructive suggestions from members of the Opposition; all their criticism is destructive. Perhaps one suggestion made by the Leader of the Opposition when he was dealing with this matter may be regarded as constructive. Referring to the position of SOO unemployed residents of the Federal Capital Territory, he suggested that these men could be absorbed in industry if the Labour party's banking policy were instituted. He argued that employment would be found for these 800 unfortunate people immediately this was done. 
The honorable senator stated that Canberra's unemployment could be solved by the transfer of the Note Issue Department to the capital, and by then giving effect to Labour's banking policy. Perhaps this would provide employment for some additional hands, but I did not dream it would employ anything like 800 persons : To a certain extent, however, it is a practical suggestion, and I appreciate it. Notwithstanding the splendid work which this Government, in  co-operation  with the State governments, has done during the last few years, much remains to be done towards solving the problem of unemployment. During the federal election campaign last year, I was very glad to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  state that in future the Federal Government would accept an increased responsibility  for dealing with unemployment. Those were timely words, but notwithstanding what this Government has accomplished in this direction it has not achieved so much as it should have achieved. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  said that the Commonwealth Government would take an increased share of the responsibility in dealing with unemployment. He also said that a Minister would be appointed to deal specifically with the problem, but that promise has not been fulfilled, although I admit that a half-way step has been taken. The Commonwealth Government has no right to shelter behind the States in this matter for it is primarily its duty to see that Australia is developed, peopled and defended. I realize that there are many divergent views regarding the causes of unemployment. One cause is the mechanization of industry. The greatly increased efficiency of machinery during recent years has resulted in not only a bigger output but also a reduced number of workers. In order to solve the problem caused by the mechanization of industry, governments have attempted to find new markets. Some success has attended those efforts, but in my opinion, the problem of unemployment cannot be solved in that way, for if Australia secures a new market to-day, it loses that market tomorrow. A continuation of the policy which has been followed in the past will leave this country always with a large proportion of its workers unemployed. Australia must adopt one of two alternatives - it must either scrap the machine and resort to manual labour, or shorten the working week. No one would agree to the former proposition, because the scrapping of machinery would result in confusion and undoubtedly prove to be a retrograde step in that it would inevitably lead to a reduction of the standard of living. The problem must be attacked from another angle; the work to be done must be spread among a greater number of workers. That can be done hy shortening the working week. I know that there are difficulties in the way, some of them constitutional, but they are not insuperable. I remind the Senate that, in 1931, the present Prime Minister made a pronouncement that the Government would take steps to bring about uniformity throughout Australia in regard to working hours and the basic wage. Little, if anything, has been done in those directions apart from convening a conference about eighteen months ago. There is still an overlapping of industrial laws, and a lack of uniformity in regard to wages and working conditions. In these matters Australia is no further ahead than it was in 1901. I regret that the Government has not taken its courage in its hands and appealed to the electors for the removal of certain constitutional obstacles to reform. It is contended that only with the universal adoption of a shorter working week can complications be avoided; but why must Australia wait on other countries? In the past this country has led the world in industrial legislation; and it has survived. Irrespective of the length of the working week this country must do three things - first, it must produce sufficient commodities to be sold in other countries to meet its overseas commitments. 
I refer to both. Secondly, Australia must sell sufficient goods to pay for the goods imported into this country ; and thirdly it must produce sufficient to clothe and feed its people. "With the assistance of up-to-date machinery, there is ample man-power in Australia to do these things, in fewer hours than are now worked in industry. 
There is no need for me to do that. I have always held the views which I have just expressed, and I shall not easily bo convinced that they are wrong. There is nothing inconsistent in a member of the United Australia party holding such views. Indeed I go so far as to say that the advocacy of them by so many members of the United Australia party was largely responsible for placing the present Government in power. 
The Leader of the Opposition also said that the fiscal policy of the present Government was responsible for the dismissal of tens of thousands of employees ; but he did not substantiate his statement. If his contention that high tariffs provide employment be correct, why was it that when the Australian tariff was at its peak, the number of persons unemployed in this country exceeded all previous records? In order to show the fallacy of the view expressed by the Opposition in regard to the tariff, I need only instance what happened in regard to the duty on matches. When I was a a member of the House of Representatives, the Labour party in that chamber said that if the Government accepted the recommendation of the Tariff Board and reduced the duty on imported matches, large numbers of workers would be thrown out of employment. The Government did accept the recommendation of the Tariff Board, but no unemployment resulted in the match-making industry.  The same can be said of the textile and other industries. 
The introduction of a sound scheme of national insurance would do much to alleviate the distress of the unfortunate unemployed in Australia as it has done in other countries. I hope that in the near future a scheme similar to those which have proved successful elsewhere will be introduced in this Parliament. 
The Leader of the Opposition went to some pains to relate the history of the movement for a scheme of pensions in Australia, and took credit to his party for practically all that had been done to make the scheme successful. He did not tell us, however, of what his party did in 1931, but went on. to say how effective the Labour party had been as an Opposition in this Parliament. When one contrasts the record of the Labour party in Opposition with its achievements when on thu treasury bench, it can be understood why the electors decided that it should remain in Opposition and that each of its members in this chamber should be given an opportunity to hold office within his party. I also recognize the effective and useful work performed by the Labour party when in Opposition, and I hope that it will long continue to render service there. I am not greatly concerned as to which political party introduced the legislation providing for pensions, but I am concerned that that legislation has failed to do what was expected of it. Although the act providing for pensions has been in operation for a quarter of a century, only during the last three or four years has prominence been given to it, and then only because some political parties 'have seen in it an opportunity to gain a political advantage. The present act is as full of anomalies and injustices as a pomegranate is of seeds, but these anomalies have been allowed to remain for 25 years; not even the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  or the Labour party, deemed it necessary to amend the act to make it fair and equitable. I do not propose to deal with these specific anomalies; I merely remind the Senate that the act has not achieved what its orignators  claimed of it. The only remedy is to scrap the act, and introduce a form of national insurance, which may be controlled separately from unemployment insurance, or it may be possible to administer the two in conjunction; but, unquestionably, it is necessary to substitute some scheme of national insurance to overcome for the present unsatisfactory pensions system. Under existing conditions, a doctor who examines an applicant for an invalid pension is required to certify that such person is permanently and totally incapacitated. In other words, he is required to look perhaps twenty years into the future in order to be able to grant a certificate in favour of the applicant. That, in my opinion, should not be expected. The difficulty could be overcome by introducing a scheme, not only to cover old age, but also invalidity and sickness as well. A scheme of this nature has been operating satisfactorily in ' England for a number of years, and I feel that a similar one could be operated just as successfully in Australia, in the interests of both the taxpayers and the recipients. I would not object to a contributory scheme; I know that the Leader of the Opposition does not favour contributory pensions; but tens of thousands of our citizens to-day are contributing through superannuation funds, insurance policies, and friendly societies, to provide for themselves against old age and sickness. Provided that the contributions were on a fair and equitable basis, and the recipients were liberally treated, there could be no objection to a contributory scheme. 
Several honorable senators have deplored the fact that the Government has not seen fit to reduce taxation to a greater extent than it has done. We all agree with them, but, whilst some of the taxes are unpopular, or cannot be collected without difficulty, and perhaps are unequitable, no critic has suggested an alternative to any of the existing taxes. The Government must raise moneys to meet its extensive commitments; pensions alone absorb over £21,000,000 a year. It is easy to talk of reducing taxation, but honorable senators omit to suggest how a corresponding reduction of expenditure may be effected. If expenditure could be reduced, no difficulty in reducing taxation would be encountered. I have examined to the best of my ability the bill now before the Senate, and I find it practically impossible to suggest any avenues where the expenditure of the Government could be reduced to any considerable degree. Of course, I could quote many instances where taxation could be reduced, but I am unable to discover where expenditure can be reduced accordingly. "Without a reduction in the one case, it is impossible to effect a just reduction in' the other. Admittedly, the sales tax is an onerous imposition; it may be unfair and vexatious; but honorable senators who have criticized it have never offered an alternative to it. 
"Where it is applied to certain articles, I admit that the sales tax has great advantages. I have made no complaint at the continuance of the sales tax on goods which may be considered to be luxuries, but honorable senators should realize that the Government must have revenues to meet its commitments and some alternative to the sales tax will have to be discovered before it can be abolished. 
Invalid, old-age and war pensions. Invalid and old-age pensions absorb £12,700,000 and war and repatriation obligations, nearly £8,000,000, which is a tremendous sum indeed. Will anyone suggest a reduction of this expenditure? While I am ready to support a reduction of taxation, or to examine any proposed substitutes for existing taxes, I shall first require to be told of practicable alternatives by those honorable senators who are opposed both to the rate of taxation, and also to the particular taxes from which the Government derives its revenue. 
.- I shall be brief in my remarks at this juncture, because I shall deal with certain individual items on the schedule as they are reached. I was somewhat surprised at the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition, who continually complains that sufficient time is not allotted for the debate on the Estimates. As a matter of fact, the Senate has already debated the motion for the printing of the budget papers, and I believe that the honorable senator spoke for one and a half hours on that motion. He addressed this chamber for one and a half hours on the first reading of this bill, and I have no doubt that he will occupy similar periods in the ensuing stages. Hence, I consider that his statement that sufficient time has not been granted for the discussion of the budget, is hardly tenable. 
I propose briefly to refer to some of the remarks made by  Senator Leckie  and  Senator Dein,  which have moved me to take part in the debate at this stage. The first few pages of the budget are almost invariably devoted to matters affecting primary production which, I think, is contradictory of the views held by  Senator Leckie,  who expressed an opinion similar to that uttered by the  chairman  of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures,  Mr. Kitchen.  This gentleman is opposed to Australia entering into trade treaties with other countries which will be of benefit to the primary producers. 

 - Mr. Kitchen said - 
A limitation to our future industrial expansion should not be tolerated as a condition of any reciprocal negotiations with foreign countries which require and purchase Australian primary products. 
Japan takes nearly800,000 bales of Australian wool, and can only pay in goods. As Japan is our best customer in the wool trade, Australia must be prepared to buy something from it in return. The same principle applies equally to our trade dealings with other countries. Now that the Minister directing trade treaties  (Sir 
Henry Gullett) has returned, I hope that the Government will enter into negotiations with other countries in an endeavour to obtain markets overseas for our export commodities.  Senator Leckie  referred to the advantage of Australia establishing a home market for its products. Ever since I was a hoy I have been waiting in vain for the ideal of the home market to materialize. The world's market is the only market available to Australia. Japan not only orders Australian wool but also was a substantial buyer of Australian wheat last year, when Great Britain's purchases were greatly restricted. Canada and Australia produce more wheat than Great Britain requires, and continental countries, such as France, are practically self-contained. The duty of the Government is to negotiate for markets for the primary products of Australia, other than wheat, at all events, in foreign countries. 
I foresee a serious situation arising in the lamb industry. New Zealand exports about 8,000,000 carcasses a year, and Australia's total is about 4,000,000. Although France and the United States of America have purchased small consignments, Great Britain is easily the principal buyer; in fact, it is the only market. With the prices operating to-day, I anticipate that in the near future, Australia's production will equal that of New Zealand. In consequence, prices will drop, the London market will be glutted, and probably a quota will be applied to th? export of lambs. 
That the values obtainable for wool have improved is indeed fortunate. Good seasons make good governments, and when the producers are obtaining good prices for their products, they are naturally prepared to pay higher taxes. Only two years ago, when people were exporting their capital, warm protests would have been entered against any substantial increases of State or Federal taxes. The Australian wool clip this year is worth probably £10,000,000 more than it was last year to the primary producers of Australia, but it must be remembered that wool taken over a period of seven years, has not been a payable proposition. The returns for the years 1933 and 1935, omitting last year, have undoubtedly proved to be of some assistance to pastoralists, and have enabled them partly to recover the leeway. Much the same is true of mutton and lamb. To-day the dairyman receives a great deal more for his butter than he obtained during the last four years, and generally the position of wheat, wool and butter is so substantially improved that the producers of such commodities are in a good position. This, improvement is reflected in the reduction of unemployment from 30 per cent, to 17 per cent. Unemployment in Victoria has never fallen below 7 per cent., which demonstrates that, no matter how good the times are, some persons are always unemployable; hence we can never hope for the total extinction of unemployment.  Senator Leckie  is anxious to establish a home market for Australian products, but I consider that Australian manufacturers, who have become so well established, should enter into the export business, instead of leaving this province to the primary producers. The manufacturers have the world for their market; let them venture upon it, and compete with overseas goods, just as the primary producers are obliged to do. Why our manufacturers have not already taken this step I fail to understand. 
The home price is merely a compensation to the primary producer for what he has to pay to the manufacturer as a result of the high protectionist policy. 
I am afraid the Tariff Board is looking at the matter with only one eye.  Senator Dein  has advocated the adoption of a shorter working week in Australia. I remind the honorable senator that this is an exporting country, the products of which must compete against a world working 48 hours and longer a week. If a 40-hour working week is forced on the primary producer, he will be obliged to go out of production. 
The farmer and the pastoralist are reasonable men : employment in the pastoral industry is governed by an award which must be observed. I fail to see, however, how our primary producers and manufacturers, working 40 hours, can compete against countries working 48 hours. The Australian worker is not so superior to the workers of other nations that he can afford to concede them practically, an hour a day or five hours a week. 
I! hope that the day is not far distant when the Government will be able to reduce taxation. In my opinion, the general public would have been more satisfied with a progressive reduction of the sales tax than with the extended exemptions that the Government has proposed. That would have been an indication that the Government is anxious to take the first step towards the abolition of taxes which harass a large number of people. The theory of a homeconsumption price has been propounded for the last 40 years to my knowledge, and has got us nowhere. Our policy should be to make trade treaties with other countries so that they will purchase those goods which we can produce more cheaply than they can be produced elsewhere, thus enabling us to develop the unoccupied parts of the country. 
[5.1]. -  in reply  - The criticism of the Senate by certain newspapers is apparently endorsed by one or two honorable senators. I have here a statement showing the time given by honorable senators to the consideration of business, as compared with the time given by members of the House of Representatives to practically the same business. For purposes of. comparison, it is necessary to divide the total number of hours which each House sat by the number of members in each House, in order to arrive at the average number of hours devoted by each member to the business before Parliament. The figures are as follows: - 
In the session of 1020-27-28 the Senate sat 780 hours. Divided by 36 senators, this works out at 21.7 hours taken by each senator, on the average. 
In the same session the House of Representatives sat 1,657 hours. Divided by 76 members gives 21.8 hours to each. 
In the session of 1029, the figures are - Senate, 109 hours. - Average 3.03 per senator. 
House of Representatives, 342 hours - Average 4.5 per member 
In the session of 1929-30-31 the figures are - Senate, 958 hours. - Average, 26.6 per senator. 
House of Representatives, 1,050 hours. - Average, 21.8 per member. 
In the session of 1932-33-34 the figures are - Senate, 853 hours. - Average, 23.7 per senator. 
House of Representatives, 1,428 hours. - Average, 18.8 per member. 
Over the nine years the figures are - Senate, 2,700 hours. - Average, 75 per senator. 
House of Representatives, 5,083 hours. - Average,66.9 per member. 
Present session (to the 22nd November, 1935) - 
Senate, 216 hours. - Average 6 per senator. 
House of Representatives, 546 hours. - Average, 7.3 per member. 
When we remember that every act that finds its place on the statute-book has to be approved in the Senate as well as in the House of Representatives, it is clear that there is nothing for which honorable senators need to apologize. 

 Senator Leckie referred to the accommodation provided in this building for members of the Senate and of the House of Representatives. I was a member of the Senate when Parliament sat in the building provided in Melbourne by the Government of Victoria, and I know that the accommodation here, both for private members and for Ministers, 'is much better than was provided in Melbourne. That is not to say that the accommodation here is all that could be desired. The time will come, I believe, when every member of the Senate and of the House of Representatives will have a separate office for himself, as now obtains in Washington. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is so, but it has not yet been possible to give effect to that plan. 
Members of the Opposition have complained at great length against the action of the Government in " rushing " this bill through, as they describe it. After all, what does this bill amount to? It is a measure to appropriate the amount required for the services of the country during the financial year, and is on the same lines as that passed last year. It does not provide special appropriation for war pensions, &amp;c, about which there has been so much discussion, but merely provides for the payment of public servants, and for various governmental activities. It is absurd for honorable senators opposite to say that insufficient time has been allowed for the discussion of the measure, when three speeches by members of the Opposition alone occupied over four hours, and during all that time not one word relevant to the bill was said. 'Discussion is allowed at the first reading stage of the bill whether it is relevant or not. Why could not some of the time occupied at the first reading stage in the discussion of all manner of extraneous subjects be spent in discussing the bill itself? 

 Senator Brown, after a lengthy prologue, complained that the Senate was being asked to become merely a recording chamber. Does it not seem inconsistent, for the honorable senator to pose as a champion of the rights of the Senate when he and his party are prepared to abolish the Senate altogether? Of course, I know that members of the Opposition are suffering from a sense of disappointment in that a nice little plan which they had laid for this session has gone awry. The plan was to take up as much time as possible in discussing measures during the early part of the session, so that, during the latter part, the Government would be compelled to rush the bills through, and members of the Opposition would be able to complain, with every semblance of indignation, that discussion had been stifled. That plan broke down when the Government brought in a little plan of its own, under which proper time was allotted for the consideration of each bill, so that every honorable senator, and not merely members of the Opposition, would get a chance to speak. 

 Senator Brown referred to the Military 'College, and I desire to correct the figures that he quoted. Those figures were used, and then corrected in the House of Representatives ; nevertheless.  Senator Brown  repeated them. He said that, when the college was at Duntroon in 1929, there were 66 cadets, while the instructors numbered 98. The correct number of instructors at that time was 20, the others consisting of the administrative and clerical personnel, and members of the subordinate staff, such as grooms, cleaners, groundsmen, &amp;c. It was also stated that the aggregate cost of maintaining the college since its establishment had been £1,000,000, and the number of graduates 390. The correct cost is £970,000, and the number of graduates 407. The average annual cost for each student is £595, as compared with £570 and £410 for Woolwich and Sandhurst respectively. This comparison is very favorable to Duntroon, when allowance is made for the smaller number of students, and the consequent relatively higher overhead cost. 
I compliment  Senator Sampson  on the excellent speech he delivered on defence and I believe that, in one respect, he could have made his arguments even stronger. When discussing universal military training, people do not always give full consideration to its effect on the morale of the youth of the country. After the system had been in operation for about three years, I, as Minister for Defence, asked the police departments of the States, through the Premiers, if they would obtain reports from their inspectors in the various districts as to the effect, if any, of the system on the behaviour of youths since its inauguration. The reports were practically unanimous in their appreciation of the improvement in the behaviour of youths. In one report, which impressed me particularly, a police inspector in New South Wales said that before the introduction of compulsory military training the behaviour of youths in his district was very bad, indeed. They had got into the habit of congregating at street corners, their language was objectionable and their behaviour bad. Three years later, he said, larrikinism had absolutely disappeared from the district, and he attributed the improvement to the military training of youths who had been given something to do in their spare time - something they appreciated and liked. Their previous bad behaviour was really the result of having nothing to do with their spare time, and their exuberant spirits had been diverted into wrong channels. I recommend that opinion to those honorable senators who object to compulsory training merely because they are opposed to militarism. 

 Senator Johnston criticized the Government on the ground that it was spending too much, and he advocated that taxation be reduced. I have no objection to any one advocating the reduction of taxation  ; I believe in that policy, and so does the Government. I say, however, that there is a responsibility on every honorable senator, especially when he advocates the reduction of taxation, to do his best to check expenditure, rather than to encourage it. I invito honorable senators to look at today's notice-paper, and study the questions which were asked by  Senator Johnston.  Obviously three were prompted by a desire to urge increased Commonwealth expenditure. 
That would be the answer which one would expect from the honorable gentleman. I ask him how can there be increased expenditure, even in the right direction and, at the same time, a reduction of taxation? The proposed relief to wheat-farmers about which he addressed a question to the Government will mean an expenditure of -anything up to £3,000,000. Other questions relate to a new airport at Wyndham - I do not know how much that would cost - but it would duplicate the expenditure already incurred at Darwin, and the construction of an up-to-date clock at Fremantle, which I know would cost £1,000,000. I am noi saying that any of these proposals may not be desirable, but I repeat that we cannot have, at the same time, increased expenditure and a reduction of taxation. This being so, I invite the honorable gentleman to say which is the more important - a reduction of taxation or increased expenditure on works such as those which he has indicated. Obviously we cannot have both. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Senator Johnston quoted the total of Commonwealth revenue, and delivered a homily to the Government on the desir ability of reducing the burden of taxes on the people. Had the honorable gentleman studied the budget figures he would have found that whilst in 1931-32 income tax yielded £13,481,982, the estimated revenue from this source for the current financial year is £8,800,000. In 1932 it was £10,87S,000, so it has been steadily coming down owing to reductions made by this Government. The land tax in 1931-32 returned £2,156,000. It also has been steadily decreasing each year as the result of the Government's policy to give relief to this section of taxpayers, and the estimate for the current financial year is £1,150,000. There has been no reduction of the rate of estate duty, and the estimated receipts from this source show an increase; but the entertainments tax which, in 1931-32 produced £133,000, has disappeared altogether. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE The figures show clearly that the Government has been reducing the burden of taxation in many directions, and in such a way as to make available more money for investment in industry, which is the best way to correct the unemployment evil. In view of his criticism of the Government, the responsibility is on the honorable senator to indicate which item of expenditure should, in his opinion, be reduced. On page 8 of the budget speech will be found the major items of Commonwealth expenditure. These include war services - interest, sinking fund, and exchange on war debt, war pensions, repatriation and other services - totalling £17,901,034. Would the honorable gentleman reduce that expenditure? Then there are payments to States under the financial agreement, federal aid roads grants, special grants to certain States, and nonrecurring grants - totalling £15,781,S02. Would  Senator Johnston  reduce any one of those payments? Next in order are the items - pensions, invalid and old-age and maternity allowances, £12,091,351; interest, sinking fund and exchange on other than war debts, £4,086,851; defence, £4,368,605 ; defence equipment, £4^160,000. Would  Senator Johnston  apply  the pruning knife to any of the above, the total of which is £58,389,643 out of a total Commonwealth expenditure of £67,151,277? 
Let us now examine the business undertakings to see if any reduction could be made there. After meeting all administrative charges in connexion with the post office, railways and territories, the balance-sheet shows a credit of £184,494, due largely to the excellent management of the Postal Department under my colleague  Senator A.  J. McLachlan. Another item of expenditure is wheat relief and like payments, £4,324,056. Would  Senator Johnston  suggest a reduction of that amount? The total of all other federal expenditure, including administration of all ordinary departments, cost of Parliament, and bounties is £4,622,072. I invite  Senator Johnston,  the Taxpayers Association and other critics of Commonwealth expenditure to indicate any particular item in the Government's balance-sheet which would be susceptible of substantial reduction without impairing the efficiency of the services. If we add to these items the other proposals for expenditure which  Senator Johnston  has mentioned in his questions to the Government, the possibility of reducing taxation becomes extremely remote. 
I was interested in  Senator Dein's  remarks dealing with unemployment, and I agree with him that it is a problem to which we should direct attention. In his policy speech the Prime  Minister said that the Commonwealth Government would take a greater share of responsibility for dealing with unemployment. That the Government has done. This is proved by the grants that have been made to the States and Commonwealth co-operation with the States in respect of unemployment relief schemes which are spread over a number of years. These proposals were initiated in pursuance of the undertaking given by the Prime Minister in his policy speech. I was also interested in the honorable senator's observations concerning the reduction of the number of hours of labour in industry, popularly described as the shorter working week. At present the Commonwealth has no power to legislate in regard to the hours of labour in industry. Before it could take a lead as suggested by  Senator Dein,  it would be necessary to amend the Constitution. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.If, during the coming recess,  Senator Dein  will visit various States he will find that the idea of the Commonwealth having unrestricted power to legislate in industrial matters is by no means so popular in some States as it appears tobe in New South Wales. 
As there is no unanimity among the States on the subject of Commonwealth power to legislate in industrial matters, to do as  Senator Dein  has suggested is not so easy as it might appear to be. The Government indicated its attitude at the recent International Labour Conference at Geneva at which it was represented by  Sir Frederick  Stewart, the Parliamentary Under Secretary for Employment. It informed the conference that the Commonwealth had no power to legislate in industrial matters but that it would ask the States to legislate for a reduction of the hours of labour in industry provided that the leading industrial nations adopted the same policy. If Australia were to introduce a 40-hour working week in industries whilst industries in other countries work 50 hours a week, as many are doing, it would unfairly handicap itself in the competition for international trade. I invite  Senator Dein  to explain why manufactured goods are only 4 per cent, of our total exports. The explanation is not that Australian workmen areless skilled or less intelligent than the workmen of any other country, but that in exporting secondary products Australia has to meet competition from countries with a much lower standard of living, due to lower wages and less favorable working conditions than obtain in this country. 
I am sure that it is unnecessary to remind  Senator Dein  that 96 per cent, of our overseas trade consists of primary pro- ducts and that we discharge our international obligations from the proceeds of their sale in the world's market where the competition determines the standard of living of those who are engaged in primary production in Australia. If that competition is intensified by a reduction of the working hours in industry the inevitable result will be a lowering of the standard of living for all workers in primary industries. Already those workers have to be content with a lower standard of living than that which is enjoyed by workers in secondary production. They have to work longer hours for lower wages and under less favorable conditions than obtain in secondary industries because their products are sold in the open market in competition with similar products from other countries where the same living standards are not observed. A reduction of the hours of labour in industry is desirable, but obviously it can be attained only by agreement through the International Labour office of the League of Nations. Already substantial progress in this direction is reported. Labour conventions have raised the standard of living in countries like Japan and China, have abolished child labour in certain industrial countries, regulated female labour in others, and effected a reduction of the hours of work in a number of industries. The best way to achieve the objective is to encourage international co-operation with a view to raising the living standards of workers in all countries and this, I repeat, may best be done through the International Labour Office. 
I should like to see the difference which exists between Australia and other countries reduced. Why should Australian primary producers have to work for ten hours a day while those employed in the cities work for only seven hours a day? Hours of labour should be adjusted by international action. 
The Minister has exhausted his time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
[5.32].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill provides for the appropriation for services for the current financial year, and there is no need for me to go into details. The ordinary transactions of the Consolidated Revenue for the first, four months of the financial year were - 

<graphic href="148332193512031_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

In considering this excess it must be remembered that the budget provided for remissions of taxes, and for special proposals involving increased annual expenditure, which are not reflected in the financial results for the first four months of the year. It would therefore, be misleading - I impress this upon  Senator Leckie  - to assume that the surplus of £1,990,000 is an indication of the result which will be obtained over twelve months. The two factors to be considered are the remissions of taxes which are now commencing to operate, and the increased expenditure which is not reflected in these figures. The expenditure for the period mentioned is less than the budget estimate, for the' further reason that the rate of expenditure during the earlier months of the financial year is usually less than that for which provision is made in the budget. The receipts of £25,277,000 for the four months represent an increase of £1,689,000 over those for the same period of last year, which were £23,588,000. The main increases are customs and excise, £977,000; sales tax, £279,000; Postal Department, £279,000. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clauses 2 and 3 postponed. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
First schedule agreed to. 
Second schedule. 
The Parliament. 

 Proposed vote, £144,690. 
 I understand that, in reply to a statement by the Leader of the Opposition (SenatorCollings), the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  said that, although honorable senators in opposition spoke for four hours on the first reading of this measure, their remarks were irrelevant. I take exception to that statement, because I spoke on important; matters relating to several Commonwealth departments, including the Senate and the Parliament. 
The committee is considering the proposed' vote for the Parliament, and the honorable senator is entitled to speak only on the proposed items of expenditure. 
That the House of Representatives be requested to reduce the amount by £1. 
The voting strength of Australia is not fairly represented in the Senate. 
The honorable senator must connect his remarks with the proposed vote, otherwise he is out of order. 
Request -  by leave  - withdrawn. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Prime Minister's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £388,350. 
 It has been reported in the press that the audit office is to be transferred from Melbourne to Canberra. Is this report correct, and if so, is the transfer being made at the suggestion of the Auditor-General or on the Government's decision ? 
 I ask the Minister whether the sum allocated for the Governor-General's office includes any provision for residences for the Governor-General in Sydney and in Melbourne ? 
 Some time ago in the Senate I made some remarks with regard to the number of employees in different branches of the Public Service, expressing the opinion that whilst some departments were over-staffed others were under-staffed. In my opinion the External Affairs Department is an illustration of a department which is understaffed. At present it is a branch of the Prime Minister's Department, although it  is  under the control of the Minister for External Affairs. Why this branch is not considered of sufficient importance . to constitute a separate department I cannot understand. Provision is made this year for twelve employees in this branch ; that number, so far as I can make out, being the total number of employees, as compared with a staff of nine last year. These twelve consist of a secretary, who is the secretary of the Prime  Minister's  Department - and who one would imagine would have sufficient work in that position to keep him occupied without also being head of . the External Affairs branch - an assistant secretary, a private secretary, one external affairs officer, who is normally stationed in London, five clerks, three typists and a messenger. This is the whole of the staff which  Senator Sir George  Pearce has to assist him in carrying out his work as Minister for External Affairs. In times like the present, and particularly during the last year or two, a staff of these dimensions is ridiculously small ; it is totally inadequate to cope  with  the work of this branch. Presumably the duties of the messenger and the typists, and possibly of some of the clerks, could be carried out by officers transferred from other branches of the Public Service. 
That could also be said in respect of the work of most government departments. Disregarding the secretary of the Prime Minister's Department for the moment, the whole of the work of this branch falls upon an assistant secretary, a private secretary and an external affairs officer who is stationed in London. The duties of the last-named officer must be tremendous, as lately he has had to spend a considerable portion of his time at Geneva. It is high time we realized that we have to negotiate and keep in touch with the rest of the world and that an unduly heavy burden is placed upon the few officers who are now entrusted with this work. Of course, the willing worker always has additional work placed upon him. This is always unfair, and, in this instance, I emphasize, unwise. I venture to say that, at times like the present,  Major Keith  Officer, in London, should have at least one or two juniors under  him, who could be gradually instructed in the special work of this department, and qualify, if necessary, to discharge his duties when he i3 absent on duty abroad, on leave, or on account of ill health. It, is only proper and wise that we should train young men to qualify for such jobs in the future.' I invite the attention of the Senate to the discrepancies between the total number of the staff of this branch and the totals of the staffs of other branches of the Service. I have extracted figures for the purpose of making such comparisons. This year the High Commissioner's office has only 78 employees, compared with 79 last year. I would imagine that the High Commissioner's work during the last year must have been prodigious ; he himself must be doing something like the work of ten men during times like the present. I point out that the majority of those under him at Australia House, good as they may be at their particular jobs, are not men to whom he could delegate any of his personal work. The total number of employees in the Audit office is 180 this year, as compared with 178 last year, and the Public Service Board has S9 employees this year, as compared with S6 last year. There are 255 employees in the Invalid Pensions Office. I ask honorable senators to note the discrepancy between this number and the twelve who are employed in the External Affairs Department, and to consider whether such discrepancy is justified in view of the relative importance of the work performed by the staffs of these two branches. Honorable senators "will not be surprised to find a very large number of employees in the Taxation office; these total 961, as against 958 last year. I applaud the Taxation office on the fact that its staff has been increased by only three this year. The total has not yet reached the 1,000 mark, although it is very close to it. The staff of the Postmaster-General's Department is of tremendous proportions. Of course, it might also be said that the staff of the Defence Department is very large. A total staff of 23,919 members is provided for this year in the Postmaster-General's Department, as compared with 22,941 last year, or an increase of nearly 1,000. 
No. There are approximately 9,000 employees in the Postmaster-General's Department in New South Wales alone. 
Yes. I stress the point that the strengths of the staffs of the various departments should be studied in the light of the relative importance of their respective duties. I put it to the Minister that my suggestion to transfer employees in branches which are over-staffed to branches which are under-staffed, is particularly applicable here. The staff of the External Affairs Department should be strengthened in order to give responsible officers in that branch an opportunity to do their work properly. It is ludicrous to have a staff of only twelve to deal with the work of this department, particularly when half of this staff consists of typists, messengers, and -clerks. Contrast this number with the total of nearly 24,000 persons employed in the Postmaster-General's Department; there is no sense of proportion' here at all. I  raise this matter because for a considerable time I have felt that, in our dealings with foreign countries - and this applies particularly to the External Affairs Department and the High Commissioner's office - we do not provide sufficient staff to cope with such work, whilst altogether too many are employed in other departments. 
[5.58]. - I should have taken the opportunity earlier to inform the committee that a very important change has been effected in regard to the administration of external affairs. Formerly, and at the time these Estimates were compiled, this was a branch under the Prime Minister's Department; but, in the meantime, it has been separated from the Prime Minister's Department, and Colonel Hodgson, who was the Assistant Secretary, has been appointed Secretary of the new department at a salary of £1,100 per annum. During recent months we found that the expenditure allocated to this department was totally inadequate, and that the increasing work of international affairs necessitated, not only an increase of staff, but also a staff of exceptional qualifications. Consequently, the Government made representations to the Public Service Commissioner, who is now about to call for applications for several new positions in this department. These will include two officers of a higher grade. In this department it is useless to promote men who have not the necessary qualifications to commence with. Officers of the External Affairs Department must have high qualifications in order to carry out the peculiar and difficult work which they are called upon to perform. The work of the department has been increasing for some time, but the ItaloAbyssinian dispute has so increased it as almost to overwhelm the small staff. I have to admit, with shame, that officers the department have frequently been forced to work all night, and all day on Sundays, in order to try to cope with the volume of work. The Abyssinian trouble- has revealed the weakness of a small staff in this department, and the Government is taking steps, in cooperation with the Public Service Board, to remedy that state of affairs. 
Honorable senators will see that the department has an officer in London. He is attached to the British Foreign Office, so that the Commonwealth Government may be kept in touch with foreign affairs. During the last two years there has been an unparalleled increase of work at Geneva. A considerable portion of the time of the High. Commissioner is now taken up with international conferences of various kinds at Geneva, and because the officer of the External Affairs Department, with his knowledge of foreign affairs, is of considerable assistance to  Mr. Bruce,  he also attends such conferences. During his absence from London, the Government in Australia does not receive any information at all in regard to international affairs; but when he returns to London he sends so much information that it practically amounts to an avalanche. The altogether inadequate staff is unable properly to assimilate that information, sift it, and bring before the Minister those things which, really concern Australia. Although much of the information forwarded from London is of little interest to Australia, some of it is of incalculable interest to us. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. The officer who will go there will understudy the officer now in the Foreign Office, and thereby maintain the link with Australia when that officer is absent at Geneva. In addition, he will gain much valuable experience. The Government's intention is to bring him back to Australia from time to time, in order that he may be kept in touch with conditions in the Commonwealth,  and to appoint another officer to take his place in London. By means of such exchanges, it hopes to train a valuable staff for diplomatic service in the future. 
Some time ago  Senator DuncanHughes  suggested that the External Affairs Department should prepare statements relating to foreign affairs for presentation periodically to Parliament. That suggestion appealed to me, and an effort was made to supply such information. But it must be remembered that for such statements to be of any value a good deal of research is necessary. It is not sufficient merely to put on paper a lot of platitudes or facts which have already appeared in the press. Statements of that kind would be of no interest to honorable senators, who need some appreciation of the foreign position which would bring to their minds a realization of Australia's position in relation to other countries, and the nature of any repercussions in Australia from movements abroad. In the preparation of such statements it would be useless to have men who merely go through the departmental files and extract therefrom items which may, or may not, be of interest. Men of high in.telligence and special knowledge, who can select from the data ava; /bie such portions as will be inforative to members of Parliament in their consideration of foreign affairs, are necessary. One of the ideas in the mind of the Government in increasing the staff is that Parliament shall be furnished with frequent statements in relation to foreign affairs, so that those members who are interested - and I hope that their numbers will increase - may have before them material by which they can keep in touch with world happenings. 
The day may come when Australia will deem it wise to have its own diplomatic representation in foreign countries. I am not now expressing the policy of thu Government, but merely my personal view. Canada, the Irish Free State and South Africa already have Ministers in some foreign countries. My most intimate touch with the British diplomatic service was when I attended the Limitation of Armaments Conference at Washington. Before I left Australia I had an idea that a diplomatic service could be organized as easily as an ordinary department could be set up. But when I came in touch with the representatives of the different nations at Washington, and 
Saw  how each member of their staffs specialized in a particular field of foreign policy - one in trade treaties, another in the interchange of nationals, and others in passports and naturalization, and so on, after having graduated in universities and undergone a long and gruelling training in the diplomatic service before being placed in positions of trust, I thought that if Australia ever' had its own diplomatic representation in foreign countries, it must have a well-trained staff for the purpose. I was greatly impressed by the advice tendered to me on that occasion by  Mr. Balfour,  who afterwards became Lord Balfour. He suggested that in the future Australia might have its own diplomatic representation abroad, and to that end he strongly advised that we should start in time and build from bedrock. He urged that a well-trained staff be built up to support any ambassadors who may be appointed to foreign countries. He assumed that the ambassadors would be men of ability and tact; but he stressed the need for a trained staff to support them. Ever since then I have advocated that Australia should train its own diplomatic staff. This department is the one in which to train such officers. With a body of trained men available, there would always be suitable men to accompany Ministers to Washington, Tokio, or any other place where Australia might be represented. I agree with  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that the External Affairs Department must be built up. Indeed, it would be wiser to have a surplus than a deficiency of officers in that department. It is a department which must expand as Australia's international responsibilities increase. Australia is a nation which cannot any longer live unto itself. Daily it is coming more and more into touch with other nations. Consequently, its responsibilities are increasing, and a trained diplomatic staff is absolutely essential to a good understanding between one country and another. In his conversation with me,  Mr. Balfour  referred to a nation which I shall call " X ". He said that that nation thought that it did not need a trained staff of ambassadors and diplomats, and consequently some of the things that it did. and the way in which it did them would, if done by Britain, probably have led to war. Fortunately, the representatives of other nations overlooked these defects, merely shrugging their shoulders, and saying, "It is only 'X'." The point is that by tactless and unwise conduct, misunderstanding leading to strained relations may easily be caused. I must apologize for having spoken at such length, but the remarks of  Senator Duncan-Hughes  gave me an opportunity to explain to the Senate the steps that are being taken by the Government to make this department more effective in the performance of its responsible duties. 
I wish to refer to the investigations carried out by that excellent institution, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. One item deals with "Research in connexion with the gold-mining industry," for which £5,000 is provided. A similar sum was voted last year, but only £2,245 was expended. Can the Minister tell us in what direction these investigations are now being carried out? Realizing the great value of the work done by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, I hope that the investigations will be continued on the scale for which provision has been made. 
The investigations of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research into the gold-mining industry are being conducted on a more extensive scale than formerly. Last year the demands on the staff were not so heavy as had been expected, but I assure honorable senators that if the work continues at its present pace, the whole amount voted this year will be absorbed. 
Last year, £607 was expended on research into the citrus industry, but no amount is set down under that heading this year. In 1930, a Commonwealth committee which investigated the industry referred to its "dependence upon government co-operation in the exploration of markets, and the conduct of scientific research into cultural and irrigation practices and problems associated with the conditions of transport, and the preservation of fruit during transport". That the citrus industry is in a serious conditionwas shown clearly when a bill to provide for a bounty of 2s. a case on oranges exported from Australia was before this chamber recently. The responsibility of the Government does not end with the passing of that measure. I should like to know why no amount has been set aside for research this year. 
I direct the attention of the honorable senator to the item " Food preservation and transport, £19,353". The land investigation has ceased, and now the only work being undertaken by the scientists is in connexion with preservation and transport. 
The most recent issue of the journal published by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, which I received yesterday, contains an interesting article by  Sir David  Rivett, dealing with the need for a national geological survey. The writer, after referring to the value to Australia of a discovery of gold, points out that coal, oil, water, and a variety of earths and minerals necessary for many manufactures are worthy of far greater attention than is given to them. He advocates the preparation of a geological map of the whole continent, and refers to what has been done in Canada, in which dominion a team of 35 men is engaged on a similar work. He points out also that the United States of America embarked on a similar undertaking in 1879 with a staff of 24. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

There is no necessity for me to emphasize the great attainments, and the public spirit actuating, the author of this article, who is the chief executive officer of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. When he expresses the opinion that a geological survey should be made of Australia and that the work should be commenced at once and asks in effect why is it not being done, I am prepared to listen to him, particularly as he points out, that Canada has made tremendous progess in this matter during the last ten years. The United States of America began this work 56 years ago with a staff of 24. Canada has a staff of 35. It is estimated that an adequate staff for this work in Australia would be 21 persons.  Sir David  does not give an actual estimate of the cost, but he said that the informationcould quite easily be obtained. He emphasizes that this is a reproductive work. At present, when we so often support works which are not reproductive, it should be a pleasure to institute an undertaking of this nature which is likely to pay for itself.  Sir 
David suggests at the end of his article, which I commend to all honorable senators - it is written in the simplest words and the author gives a very true and full survey of the problem - that we might incur an expenditure in proportion to our population. The United States of America expends £1,000,000 a year on this work. Having regard to the ratio of Australia's population to that of the United States of America, the amount required to finance the work in the Commonwealth would be about £70,000. In view of the importance of gold, quite apart from that of oil, and again quite apart from the consideration of water, which has always been of the greatest concern to Australia, we may fairly conclude that probably this problem has already occupied the attention of the Minister who I know has shown very great interest in the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and its work. I therefore ask the Minister if he has considered the matter raised by  Sir David  Rivett in detail and if anything has been planned, if not for this year, at any rate for the near future. 
Some years ago, the States agreed to engage in a survey of this character, but nothing practical was done. A few months ago, a conference took place in Melbourne between the Ministers for Mines from the several States and their advisers in connexion with the grants made by the Commonwealth to the States last year for the assistance of the mining industry. The substance of the article to which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has referred was brought under the notice of the members of that conference; in fact, a paper which contained much the same information as that article was circulated among the Ministers. I am in favour of this survey, but one has to approach such a consideration with circumspection because it is a function of the States. 
The suggestion was made that there should be a co-operative effort on the part of the Commonwealth and State officers; but I fancy that, owing to the haste with which the business of the conference was conducted, the matter was not thoroughly understood. The upshot of it was that the proposal had the support of some of the eminent technicians present, but otherwise it was not received "with that enthusiasm which might have been expected. As the result, it was referred to a sub-committee consisting of  Sir David  Rivett,  Dr. Keith  Ward of South Australia and two other geologists from New South Wales and Victoria. The subcommittee will report at a later date whether anything can be done in the direction of making the desired survey. I assure the honorable senator that the Government has every sympathy for such a work. The comparatively small survey which has already been embarked upon by the Commonwealth in co-operation with the Governments of Queensland and Western Australia is proving quite successful; some valuable knowledge has been gained, and, possibly before very long, results of practical value to Australia will be achieved. 
In reference to the High Commissioner's Office, London, I desire some information from the Minister regarding the staff to deal with migration matters. Prior to the suspension of migration, Australia House employed quite an extensive staff which must have accumulated a quantity of valuable data upon the subject of migration. Do the salaries mentioned here provide for the retention of some officer or officers, so that the information may be kept up to date and the inquiries of intending migrants may be answered promptly and efficiently? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [8.9]. - After the termination of the migration agreement, the staff employed in Australia House to deal with migration matters was severely reduced, but I understand that  Mr. W.  J. Stables, an officer in the service of the Government of Western Australia, is loaned to the Commonwealth, and his duty is to keep this information up to date. This means that there is only one senior officer dealing with such matters. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Department of the Treasury, £731,500; and AttorneyGeneral's Department, £181,370  -  agreed to. 
Department of the Interior. 

 Proposed vote, £400,400. 
.- In regard to the River Murray Waters Commission, is it the intention of the Government to increase the capacity of the Hume Reservoir to 2,000,000 acre feet or to allow it to remain at 1,250,000 acre feet, and subsequently when additional water supplies are required, build weirs in the poorer country in the upper reaches of the Murray? At present the settlers of Tallangatta are like Mahomet's coffin, suspended between Heaven and earth. They expect their lands to be submerged at any time. They should be informed definitely whether the Government proposes to accept the recommendation of the commission, of 1929, that the reservoir should remain at its present capacity and that if additional water were required, new reservoirs should be built at a lower cost than the expenditure involved in the submerging of the Tallangatta district. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [8.12].  -  The honorable senator's question relates to the works Estimates rather than to the salaries and expenses of the department. The only information supplied to us is that in regard to various items in this schedule. Offhand I am unable to answer the honorable senator's question, except to state that I know of no proposal to vary the latest agreement between the three Governments concerned; but I shall refer his inquiry to the Minister for the Interior. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of Defence. 

 Proposed vote, £4,636,200. 
.- A good deal of discussion has taken place in regard to the periodical grants of free ammunition to rifle clubs, and representations have recently been made to the Minister in respect to the proposal to reduce this supply. Rifle clubs play an important part in national defence, and they are intimately connected with the military arm of the services. I consider that the method adopted by governments in the past of merely making free ammunition available to the clubs is not the best way in which to assist these organizations. A better plan would be to put the rifle clubs on a basis similar to the system of subsidizing the various flying clubs in Australia. They are subsidized on the basis of the number of efficient pilots which they train. If an arrangement were entered into by which the rifle clubs were subsidized according to the number of efficient marksmen under a certain age that they produced, instead of distributing ammunition to persons irrespective of age - some of whom might be of little value in war - it would be a sounder proposition for the Government and the country. The Defence Department might also consider the advisability of instructing members of these clubs in machine gunnery as well as in rifle marksmanship. If arrangements could be made for instructors to visit the various drill halls or rifle club assembly rooms to give members of these organizations instruction in machine gunnery, I believe that the result would be of immense value to the Commonwealth from the point of view of defence. I commend the suggestion to the Government for its consideration. 
.- To those who are interested in national defence, the steady improvement and expansion of the air force along sound lines must be a source of much satisfaction. The provision of IS Hawker Demon aircraft, 24 supermarine Seagulls Mark V., and the extensive constructive programme, clearly indicate that special efforts are being made to keep the equipment and organization of the Royal Australian Air Force up to date. 
It is pleasing to know that civil aviation, too, is being developed. Civil aviation is to the Royal Australian Air Force what the mercantile marine is to the Navy. Though some of the mailcarrying aeroplane services may be operated at a loss, the experience gained and the development of aircraft manufacture and technique are of considerable national value. 
The Royal Australian Navy, as a unit of the British Fleet, and a highly trained air force, have each its specific role in the defence of the Commonwealth. Our land forces, too, have a very important and effective part to play. No air force can, by itself, achieve permanent and decisive results. A judicious and wellbalanced blending of these two services acting in co-operation, will provide an effective instrument in time of national emergency. 
The three years' defence programme for the purpose of bringing our coast defences up to date is long overdue. I commend the Government for the steps which it has taken to make Australia self-contained in munitions and equipment generally. 
That is the bright side of the picture. The condition of our militia, which in time of war, after expansion, becomes the land force, is far from satisfactory. Were it not for the enthusiasm and patriotism of the majority of officers and non-commissioned officers, the militia would cease to exist. The official strength is given as 28,000, all ranks; the real strength is nearer 1S,000 - about what it was 25 years ago, under the voluntary system, and before universal training was adopted in 1910. 
Attendances at home-training parades average about 50 per cent, and the strength of units in the all-too-short periods of continuous training in camp averages 70 per cent. This does not provide a land force sufficiently strong and stable adequately to train the leaders and specialists of a modern army. 
The serious falling off in the attendance at home-training parades necessitates much elementary training in camp before field manoeuvres can be undertaken. Longer periods of camps of continuous training are the only solution. Some employers take a national longdistance view and allow their employees to attend camps, but certain Skate and Federal departments place obstacles in the way of public servants fulfilling the most important part of their military training, which can only be acquired in camp. Whilst the strength of the light horse and technical units is satisfactory, the position of the infantry is deplorable : yet little or no encouragement is given to regimental rifle clubs, one of the best means of gaining and holding recruits. Senior officers rarely take the slightest interest in the activities of these clubs. The recent decision to reduce the amount of free ammunition will not affect these clubs so much as the reserve or civilian rifle clubs. Three years ago, the annual allowance of 2s. 6d. for every effective member of a regimental club was reduced to ls. 6d., and as the majority of the members come from homes in industrial areas, this sum means something to them. It is still ls. 6d. Out of this allowance clubs have to meet administration costs, and provide trophies for competitions. I hope 'that the Minister will direct that more consideration be given to these young militia men. The amount involved is only about £400. 
With regard to reserve rifle clubs, which form part of our defence system, I repeat what I have already urged in this chamber, namely, that reconsideration be given to the reduction of each rifleman's annual free allowance of ammunition. The Minister has given ah undertaking to look into the matter, so a measure of restoration is hoped for. These rifle clubs comprise some thousands of citizens eligible for active service, all voluntarily undergoing training which will fit them to step into the ranks of light horse or infantry units when the need arises. I hope that more encouragement will be given to members of these clubs, not all of whom are "old boys." The majority are of military age, and would constitute a valuable reserve nucleus. I trust that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  will direct the attention of the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Parkhill)  to these matters, in order that something may be done before the new year starts ; otherwise many of these rifle clubs will be in -a bad way. 
[8.25]. - I listened with much interest to the remarks of Senators Foll and Brand, and will take an early opportunity to bring them under the notice of the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Parkhill).  I have an intimate knowledge of the keen interest -which  Senator Brand  has always taken in the rifle club movement. For a considerable part of the time when I was 
Minister for Defence he was a member of the Military Board, and, although it was generally believed that military men were out of sympathy with the activities of the rifle clubs, I found that  Senator Brand  was their warm friend and advocate. I am sure that the Minister for Defence will heed the suggestions which  the honorable senator has made this evening. It is regrettable that, under our voluntary system, we do not appear to be getting the number of men required. Those who have read the memorandum which has been circulated by the Minister for Defence will realize that the Government is endeavouring to get up-to-date equipment for our defence forces. I think that  Senator Brand  will agree with other distinguished Australian ImperialForce officers that it would be of no use to have the men without the most modern equipment. Shortly after the war I consulted leaders of the Australian Imperial Force as to the essentials in order to perfect our defence system, and their recommendations, in the order named, were - (1) a trained staff, capable of meeting the expansion of the strength; (2) munitions and other up-to-date equipment; and (3) an army of trained men. It is to be regretted that during the depression our army was reduced in respect of all three of these essential factors. Accordingly, the policy of this Government has been to repair these deficiencies. That three years' programme, which we have adopted, aims at more extended training of officers, greater facilities for training, provision of modern equipment, and particularly the mechanization of a portion of the defence arm. The provision of material has been based on the essential condition that troops around a defended base should be mobile, and capable of being concentrated quickly at any given point, and so equipped as to be able to hit hard. Every government will have to give serious attention to the admitted scarcity of volunteers. If the system is to be successful it will have to attract more men. The suggestions of  Senator Brand  and of other Australian Imperial Force officers will receive careful consideration. I can assure honorable senators that it is the desire of the Government to make the voluntary training scheme a success if that be possible. "We shall continue to do everything within our power to make the system more attractive in order that we may get the required numbers, and also to ensure that their training is of such a character as to enable them to take the field as trained units. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of Trade and Customs. 

 Proposed vote, £564,430. 
.- I shall be glad if the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs will state whether any progress has been made in the direction of securing uniformity with regard to the film censorship. At present there is a great deal of overlapping and difficulty by reason of the fact that, in addition to a Commonwealth film censor and an appeal board, there are in existence State censorship boards. As a result some films which have been passed by the Commonwealth censor for general exhibition are sometimes banned by a State board. To overcome this difficulty State governments should surrender certain powers to the Commonwealth Government. I know that the present Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  is very desirous of securing uniformity in this matter. 
I request that representations be made to the Minister for Trade and Customs to ascertain whether by an amendment of the Customs Act or as a matter of administration, leniency can be extended to Australian citizens returning from overseas with presents for their friends or relatives? At presenttourists returning to Australia must sign a declaration containing a list of every item in their possession other than their actual personal belongings. Thousands of travellers cannot bring a present valued at 20s. or less without having to declare it for customs purposes, and paying the duty imposed. I have brought this matter forward on behalf of a number of persons who wish to bring small gifts to their families, and who do not think it fair that an unnecessarily heavy duty should be imposed. The gifts are usually curios purchased in other countries, and if a concession were granted it would" not be  abused. Travellers should be allowed to bring in duty free, say, £25 worth of goods as personal gifts. Considering the large amount of revenue received  in  customs duties such a concession should be granted. 
.- The existing arrangement imposes too heavy a burden upon the tourists mentioned by  Senator Foll.  A traveller returning to Australia from abroad has to compile a schedule of every item in his possession other than his personal belongings, and swear .to its accuracy. One person had to pay a duty equivalent to 80 per cent, of the value of the gifts. In addition to customs duties on the retail prices of the articles, primage duty and sales tax also were imposed, with the result that by the time the articles were landed in Australia they cost twice their original price. Officials of the Department of Trade and Customs, who recognize the difficulties of securing accurate statements from some travellers, have informed me that honest persons are always willing to pay the amount demanded, but there are others who take a delight in evading customs duties. Although dishonest persons realize that they are liable to a  heavy  penalty there are always some who endeavour to land goods without paying the duty. It has been suggested to me that if the department is satisfied that the goods are not for sale the Minister for Trade and Customs should consider the advisableness of providing for the payment of a specific duty of 20 per cent, or 25 per cent, on all such goods, landed. If that practice were adopted I believe that the department would benefit financially. If tourists knew beforehand that such goods would be liable to a standard rate of duty there would not be any inclination to evade the payment of customs dues. One tourist was sufficiently careful to record what he considered a reasonable wholesale value of the gifts he purchased, but others merely give the retail prices they have paid which means that the duty imposed is unnecessarily heavy. If a standard rate of duty were adopted I believe that the department would benefit. 
In connexion with the powers of the Federal Censor ship Board I direct the attention of the Minister to the fact that invariably when a film exhibitor or a picture theatre owner is asked why so many inferior pictures are screened he is informed that he can obtain good pictures only by undertaking to screen what many of us consider undesirable films. I do not know what are the full powers of the Censorship Board in this respect; but if the board has not the authority to prohibit the projection of inferior films it should have the power to do so. The films to which I refer may not be immoral but can be termed only as mere " bunk ". It is an insult to a large number of Australian picture patrons to be compelled not only to view them but also to hear the language used. 
The representations made by  Senator Foll  and  Senator Payne  in regard to a relaxation of the imposition of customs duties on gifts brought by tourists from abroad will again be brought under the notice of the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White).  When the Minister investigated the subject eight or nine months ago he found that when there was a relaxation in the direction suggested, serious leakages occurred. The suggestions of honorable senators, if practicable, will be further considered. 
The powers of the Commonwealth in the matter of film censorship are somewhat limited. Efforts to get the States to come into line and to adopt the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Constitution, have proved unsuccessful. I understand that the subject is listed for consideration at the next conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers. I am not quite clear that the department has power to remedy  the state of affairs of which  Senator Allan  MacDonald complained. The quality which patrons of pictures or of music desire is a matter of individual taste, and I understand that some exhibitors wish to project a percentage of films to which the honorable senator takes objection. 
It is a matter of taste. I shall, however, bring the matter under the notice of the Minister to see if anything can be done to reduce the number of objectionable films screened. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of Health. 

 Proposed vote, £116,680. 
, - Two months ago I communicated with the then Minister for Health  (Mr. Hughes)  in connexion with the experimental work being carried on by Sister Kenny. Can the Minister indicate if the collaboration of the Commonwealth Department of Health with Sister Kenny has proceeded any further than was indicated by the then Minister for Health ? The people in Western Australia, and, I believe, in other States, are anxious that this work should be extended,and I trust that the Health Department is giving Sister Kenny every assistance in her investigations of not only infantile paralysis, but also other forms of paralysis. 
I can assure the honorable senator that the subject is receiving the very close attention of the Minister for Health. I know that it has been discussed from time to time in Cabinet. I do not think that there is anything to prevent Sister Kenny from proceeding with her work, and I can assure the honorable senator that the Department of Health is not impeding it in any way. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of Commerce. 

 Proposed vote, £402,090. 
What action is the Government taking in connexion with the appointment of a trade representative in Egypt? When I visited Cairo some months ago I was informed that as a direct result of the Canadian Government sending a trade representative to Egypt the value of imports from Canada had increased from £80,000 to over £250,000 per annum. Having discussed the subject  with many leading white residents in Cairo, I am fully con vinced that a good opportunity exists for Australia to increase its trade with Egypt. I understand that some action has been taken to secure representation there, and I shall be very glad if the Minister will tell us what has been done in this respect. 
The Government still has under consideration the names of several persons for appointment to the position in Egypt, and provision has -been made in this bill in the expectation that an appointment will be made shortly. 
.- I ask if the provision for the overhaul of and repairs to steamers, boats and launches refers to launches under the control of the northern patrol? 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Miscellaneous Services. 

 Proposed vote, £1,199,460. 
I notice that it is proposed to make a grant this year of £100,000 to the States for the benefit of and assistance to fruit-growers. The amount is £25,000 less than was provided for this purpose last year. This grant must be regarded as a permanent liability, because, only in this way can- help be given to the fresh fruits industry. Most primary producers who export their produce have to be assisted by the Commonwealth in some way. Some of them are assisted through the fixation of a home-consumption price, but that course cannot be followed in respect of fresh fruits. Producers of wheat, sugar, butter and dried fruits have been aided by making the Australian consumer pay more than the overseas buyer for these products. Growers of fresh fruits can be assisted only by direct grants. I understand that the grant this year works out to a benefit of about 5d. or 6d. a case. I hope thatthis money will be distributed in the form of a straight-out payment to all exporters of apples and pears so that all will share alike. I also point out that the Government unsuccessfully endeavoured to help this industry by securing a reduction of freights. Such assistance would have been of a permanent nature. As help  cannot be given in that way, the fresh fruits industry, which, so far as Tasmania is concerned, relates principally to apples and pears, must  be  helped in another way. Therefore, I repeat, the Government must regard this grant as a permanent one, and I hope that in future the amount will again be £125,000 as it was last year. 
.- 1 do not think that any item in these Estimates is more important than that providing for a grant in aid of fruitgrowers. The apple and pear exporters are a most deserving section of the community. The industry itself is of vital importance to the development of Australia, because it can be conducted on land which is not suitable for any other purpose, whilst it also has all the essentials of closer settlement. The holdings usually are small, ranging in area from about 5 acres to 10 acres. Furthermore, these orchards are on land which is not suitable for the growing of any other crops. If any injury should be done to the fruit-growing industry, a serious setback would be given to closer settlement development. Capital values in the industry have decreased since the beginning of the depression by approximately 50 per cent. Consequently growers have been confronted with many difficulties. For instance, orchardists are experiencing hardship in finding that financial accommodation which in certain periods is essential to enable them to carry on their orchards, and market their products. Many of them have been forced to rely on merchants for credit, and they have had to pay in some way for this accommodation. In addition, freights have increased enormously in comparison with the charges of a few years ago, whilst the cost of materials used in the industry, such as cases and packing, has also increased considerably. Much expenditure has been incurred in the special treatment of timbers for casing, and in the combating of pests. Consequently, the orchardists as a whole have had a very bacl time. Last season prices overseas were the best realized for about three or four years, but it must not be overlooked that this was brought about by the arrangement e of an export quota, as the result of which a larger quantity of good fruit was left in Australia than the home market could absorb. Thus, although prices overseas last year were the best for some years past, that advantage was offset by the lower prices prevailing in Australia. I support the suggestion of  Senator J.  B. Hayes that this assistance to fruit-growers should be continued, and I regret that it has been found necessary to reduce the amount this year to £100,000, as compared with £125,000 last year. I cannot understand the reason for the reduction. However, the fruit-growers are grateful 'to the Government for providing this grant. 1 hope it will keep this matter continually before it, and do everything in its power in the future to stabilize this industry, and enable those who engage in it to carry on, confident that they can give of their best, because there is a likelihood of their receiving an adequate return for their labours. 
.- "With respect to the provision of £4,500 for the Commonwealth Grants Commission, I ask whether it is proposed to continue this body or to bring into being an interstate commission to take over its work. 
The commission will continue its inquiry for its appointed term. "When the Government has reached a decision as to its future policy with regard to this commission it will make an announcement at the appropriate time. 
 I assure  Senator J.  B. Hayes and  Senator Payne  that the Government does not feel that it has been lacking in generosity  towards the Tasmanian exporters of apples and pears. The grant this year is slightly less than it was last year, but against that reduction may be set off the fact that last season was the best that the growers had experienced for the past five or six years. At present the Government is concerned as to what form the assistance provided here should take. The Government believes that if the help can be given to the industry in the form of a reduction of freights, which would be a permanent, benefit, that would be a  better method of assistance than the straight-out payment of bounties which, though welcome to the participants, are spent very rapidly. . 
Last year £5,000 was voted in respect of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry, but the expenditure of that commission -amounted to £20,472. I notice that this year a further £3,000 is to he provided. I was under the impression that this body had concluded its labours. 
I also ask the Minister for how long has a subsidy of £1,000 been paid as a contribution towards the cost of publishing the report of the British, Australian, and New Zealand Antarctic Research Expedition, and for how much longer will this contribution be made. I am aware that this publication is of a scientific nature. 
I also ask the Minister what is  The Federal Guide,  for the printing of which £100 is to be provided this year. 
The range of the investigation of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry greatly exceeded the expectations of the Government. Complications arose in respect of the manufacture of flour and the examination of the affairs of bakers in New South Wales, who, as honorable senators representing that State are aware, are in a peculiar position. This investigation has gone on and on, and I am sure that, as a result of it, a vast amount of knowledge will be brought to the Government regarding the intricacies of the production of bread and flour. The commission prosecuted its investigation in every part of Aus-  tralia where wheat is produced. Consequently, the provision made in the Estimates last year was not sufficient to meet the expenditure of the commission. I anticipate that the commission's final report will be furnished to the Government either this week or next week. 
In reply to  Senator Collett's  inquiry regarding the Commonwealth's contribution towards the cost of publishing -the report of the British, Australian, and New Zealand 
Antarctic Research Expedition, it is anticipated that the work of examining and collating matters involved in this report will occupy the attention of a large number of honorary contributors for a period of five years. The total cost of printing the report, and incidental expenditure is £7,500. A good deal of work has been undertaken in an honorary capacity by a number of scientists and the department is assisting in the publication. 
The  Federal Guide  is a departmental reference book which gives the names of the officers in various Government departments, and is similar to reference books issued by most governments. 
Copies will probably be supplied free to members of Parliament. In 1926 this publication cost £130. It was proposed to issue a revised  Federal Guide  in 1929, but the government of the day did not proceed with the publication, on account of shortage of funds. On the basis of 1,000 copies, the Government printer has estimated that the cost of printing the  Federal Guide  should not exceed £100. ' 
In division 109 the sum of £9,000 is set down for the Australian Dairy Council. I understand that a bill will shortly come before us under which the Australian Dairy Council will cease to exist. That body has about £16,000 to its credit, the result of a levy of  id.  a case, or1s. 8d. a ton, on all butter exported from Australia, and is concerned as to the disposal of that money. 
I cannot see the necessity for allocating £9,000 to the Australian Dairy Council which already has money to its credit. Should the council cease to exist will the money go to the Dairy Export Control Board which has no use for it since it already derives a revenue of £35,000 a year from levies? It is entitled to collect, one-eighth of a penny on every lb. of butter exported, and one-sixteenth of a penny on every lb. of cheese exported;,  but instead of using its power to the full extent it has collected only about onethirteenth of a penny on each lb. of butter and one-sixteenth of a penny on each lb. of cheese exported. Had it exercised its powers to the full, it would have received about £100,000 a year. I should like to know what will happen to the £9,000 if the Australian Dairy Council goes out of existence. 
 I think that the honorable senator has rather trenched upon a matter which is more relevant to a bill which will come before us later. The money has been collected as part of an export levy on butter, and has been devoted to certain specified purposes for the benefit of the industry. Should the Australian Dairy Council cease to exist,  the  money which it has in hand will be voted to the same purpose as previously. 
The money collected will be paid to the Australian Dairy Council, which will be paid only those moneys which are collected on its behalf. It is estimated that the collections will amount to £9;Q00 this year. 
I should like an explanation of the items "Representation, Imperial Economic Committee £4,427", and "Historial Memorials of Representative Men, £600." 
For the development of the fisheries industry the sum of £5,000 is set down. A similar sum was voted last year, but only £220 was expended. I should like an explanation of that item also. 
I also desire to know who is responsible for "Investigations abroad in connexion with unemployment" for which the sum of £200 is provided, and when a report will be submitted. 
I should be glad also of an explanation of the item " Contribution to International Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, £210." 
As regards the item " Representation, Imperial Economic Committee", I can inform  Senator Brown  that this amount is required to meet the following expenses. 

<graphic href="148332193512031_34_1.jpg"></graphic>

Besides being a member of the Imperial Economic Committee,  Mr. McDougall  assists the High Commissioner as an economic officer and carries out certain duties in London on behalf of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, in consideration of which the Council bears part of . the debit for his salary. 
The sum of £600 set down for " Historial Memorials of Representative Men " is to be expended on the painting of portraits required by the Historical Records Committee. Commissions have not yet been granted for the painting of portraits of  His Excellency  the Right Honorable  Sir Isaac  A. Isaacs, GovernorGeneral; the Right Honorable J. A. Lyons, M.P., Prime Minister; the Right Honorable J. H. Scullin, M.P., a former Prime Minister;  Senator the  Honorable P. J. Lynch,  President  of the Senate; the Honorable G. H. Mackay, M.P.,  Speaker  of the House of Representatives ; the late  Senator Sir Walter  Kingsmill, a former  President  of the Senate; N. J. O. Makin, Esquire, M.P., a former  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. Of the £1,000 provided for 1930-31 only £77 was expended. In 1931-32, the sum of £50 was provided and £50 spent, whilst in each of the three following years £25 was voted, of which £9 was expended in 1932-33, and a similar sum in 1934-35. There was no expenditure of the vote for 1933-34. 
In regard to the item "Development of Fisheries Industries, £500", the position is that  Mr. Fowler  who was previously in the Development 
Branch and is an expert on matters connected with fishing, has been seconded to work with  Sir David  Rivett and  Mr. Roughley  in connexion with plans for a vessel to be used in fishing operations. It is expected that tenders for the construction of the vessel will be invited within the next few weeks. 
The item of £275 for investigations abroad in connexion with unemployment refers to the expenses incurred by the secretary to the Parliamentary UnderSecretary for Employment  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  while he was in Europe. The Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Employment has furnished a report of his inquiries to the Government. 
.- A sum of £2,610 is provided for expenses in connexion with the Western Australia secession case. Lust year a sum of £750 was voted, but, the expenditure totalled £16,586. Probably the bulk of it was absorbed in the printing and distribution of  The Case for Union.  But will the Minister explain the reason for the additional £2,610? 
TI,is provision is necessary to meet the cost of legal and other expenses which were incurred in London in connexion with the representation of the Commonwealth on the occasion of the presentation of the Western Australian petition. These additional costs were not brought into the accounts for last year. 
.- A grant of £50,000 is proposed for maternal and infant welfare. This important provision is the outcome of a conference convened some time ago by the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes, and I think that, in view of the wide public interest evinced in this matter, the Minister should make a statement of the Government's proposals in regard to the administration of this vote. 
This item represents the grant made by the Commonwealth to the Jubilee Maternal and Infant Welfare Appeal, contributions to which have been made throughout the length and breadth of this country. 
Long speeches have been made by various Ministers from time to time regarding the objective of this fund, which is for the promotion of infant and maternal welfare. Committees have been established in the capital cities and many other centres to raise funds, and contributions have been made by the State governments and by private individuals. The scheme is most laudable and important to this country. 
No ; it is a contribution to a huge fund which has been raised at the instance of His Majesty the King, and which will be administered throughout the States by committees appointed by" the governments. 
Will the Minister explain the contribution of £210 to the International Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property ? 
 Australia is a party to this international convention, which exercises a protection over industrial property, including trade marks and copyrights. 
Proposed vote agreed to 

 Proposed votes - Refunds of revenue, £1,250,000; Advance to the Treasurer, £2,000,000; War services payable out of revenue, £1,039,000  -  agreed to. 
Part II.  -  Business Undertakings. 

 Proposed vote- Commonwealth Railways, £546,830, agreed to. 
Postmaster-General's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £9,704,000. 
Will the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  explain whether it is a fact that many linesmen and mechanics have lately been dismissed from the Service? I understand that in Victoria alone several hundred men have lost their positions. Will the same action be taken in other States? For many years, efforts have been, made ' to prevail upon the various PostmastersGeneral to improve the South Brisbane Post Office, which is a disgrace to the department. I believe that £3,500 was expended by the department on the purchase of a site in a central position near the terminus of the Kyogle and suburban railways nea)- Brisbane. Is it the intention of the Government to proceed with this necessary work? 
[9.25 J . There is a file about 3 feet thick in the department relating to the matter of the South Brisbane Post Office, and I am sure that the subject is engraven on the hearts of my predecessors as it is on mine. I can give to the honorable senator no assurance other than that I shall endeavour to visit Brisbane when the weather moderates. 
Honorable senators will be pleased to . learn that the department has been able to absorb in the Services a considerable number of seniors who had previously been doing junior duties. During the present year it is hoped to absorb a still larger number. The dismissal of mechanics and linesmen is inevitable from time to time, and I admit, that the retrenchment was particularly drastic in Victoria. Owing to the visit of  His  Royal Highness, the Duke of Gloucester, and the damage to telephonic and telegraphic communication caused by floods, it became necessary to employ hundreds of men to effect repairs, but when that work was completed a number of those men had to be dismissed. The department has eased down the position as best it can, and, in view of the increased business of the post office lately, hopes to re-engage some of the men. Representations have been made to me by returned soldiers' organizations, and a percentage of returned soldiers will be re-employed. I regret that not many vacancies are available for mechanics, but a. lot of work is being found for linesmen. The department is operating on an economical basis, and is endeavouring to distribute work equitably as between outside temporary employees and men who have been employed in the Service on junior's work. 
.- A sum of £110,000 is provided for the 
Orient Steamship Company's overseas mail contract. "Will the Minister explain whether this is an annual payment in accordance with a contract between the Commonwealth and the company for a period of years? In my opinion, such a contract is unnecessary. Weekly services operate between Australia and England, and every one of the ships engaged in this regular service carries mails, many of them on a poundage basis. The Orient Company does not transport the bulk of the mails, but only the same proportion as ships of other lines. The time has arrived when the payment for the transport of mails could be placed on a poundage basis. 
The contract with the Orient Company extends over a period of years, and provides for an annual grant of £130,000. Following representations by the PostmasterGeneral's Department, the company voluntarily reduced the contract price ' by £20,000. The full amount of £110,000 must be shown on the Estimates of expenditure, but the Commonwealth in return receives certain remuneration from other countries and services, which reduces this liability. I have not the figures by me, but it is possible that if we were free to commence again, having regard to the condition of air transport services, we might review the terms. 
I cannot say, but I presume that it will not expire for some years. 
 I direct attention to the item, Air Mail Services £79,000, and ask the Postmaster-General to give urgent consideration to requests which my colleague,  Senator Collett,  and 1 have made for an improvement  of  the air mail service to the north-west of Western Australia. This service is governed largely by the arrival of the overseas air mail at Daly Waters. Would it not be possible to institute a double service overseas, thus improving the air mail from Daly Waters to Perth and giving residents of the north west portion of Western Australia an opportunity to transact their business under more satisfactory conditions? The Minister is well aware the difficulties under which these pioneer settlers are carrying on their operations, so I need not stress them again. . I hope that it will be possible to give the people living in that part of Western Australia a better service than they have been receiving since the expiration of the contract with Western Australian Airways Limited. 
.- A number of mail contracts are carried out in Western Australia and the Northern Territory by owners of camel teams, some of which travel a distance of 700 miles. I suggest that, when the time comes to renew these contracts, alternative tenders be invited with  a  view to extending the air mail service to districts which, at present, are served . by camel teams. If this were done, it is probable that a number of landing fields would be established at out-stations, thus improving the facilities for inter-communication by air. 
The provision made for inland  mail  services, excluding railway services in Queensland, is £104,800. Although,  in  recent years, there has been substantial improvement of the postal facilities in the larger centres, the services in the far western districts of Queensland are no better than they were 25 or 30 years ago. In some cases they are, if anything, worse. The department is saving many thousands of pounds annually on inland mail contracts from rail heads in the far western districts of Queensland. I direct attention to the mail service between Winton rail-head 'and Boulia, a distance of 251 miles. 
Progress reported. 
[9.42].-  by leave-  The Commonwealth Government has learned, with regret, that at a meeting of the Seamen's Union held in Sydney this morning, it was decided to continue the shipping strike, which was begun several days ago, and that at meetings in Melbourne, Brisbane, Port Adelaide and Newcastle this decision was supported. 
The Government takes a very serious view of what it regards as a deliberate dislocation of the sea-borne trade and commerce of Australia, and a repudiation of an award made after exhaustive judicial examination by the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration in settlement of disputes, including a dispute submitted by the Seamen's Union itself. It desires to make it clear beyond doubt that a strike, against a lawfullymade award, and a wanton interruption of a service, important not only to ship-owners and seamen, but also to farmers, manufacturers, merchants and the general public, could not be tolerated by any responsible government. 
The Government has considered the extension of the operation of the Transport Workers Act to seamen. It has decided to notify, and hereby notifies, the seamen that, unless work is resumed within 48 hours, the Commonwealth Go- vernment will proceed to apply the provisions of ' that act to the manning of ships at ports which are affected by this dispute, and will take such other action as the law allows with a view to the maintenance of trade and commerce. 
The Government wishes to point out that, if the TransportWorkers Act is applied to seamen, its application will be continued, not merely for the present, but permanently, and seamen who fail to resume work will find themselves substantially excluded from future employment in the Australian shipping industry. 
Should the prompt re-manning of coastal steamers prove impracticable, the Government will not hesitate to take action to grant permits to overseas ships to engage in the coasting trade in respect of both passengers andcargo. 
The Government appeals to the seamen to reconsider their action, and avoid what can only be a disaster to themselves and their families. 
[9.44].  -  by leave  - It is with  deepest regret that I announce formally to the Senate the death of His Majesty's sister, Her Royal Highness Princess Victoria, which occurred early this morning. I move - 
That the following address to  His  Majesty the King be agreed to: - 
To the King's Most Excellent Majesty: Most Gracious Sovereign : 
We, the  President  and members of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, have received with profound sorrow the news of the death of Your August Sister,  Her  Royal Highness Princess Victoria. We wish to express to Your Majesty the heartfelt sympathy of Your subjects in the Commonwealth of Australia in the great loss which you have sustained. 
On behalf of the members of the Opposition, I second the motion. We wish to associate ourselves with the sentiments expressed in it. 
.   -  On behalf of the members of the United Country party, I support the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative; honorable senators standing in their places. 
[9.47]. - As a mark of respect to Her late Royal Highness, Princess Victoria, I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Whether, in his opinion, thetimehas not arrived for some attempt to be made to provide proper accommodation in Canberra for members of the Parliament? 
Whether he will give prompt and favorable consideration to the suggestion that the Hotel Kurrajong should be made available to members, as it was prior to its reservation for the census staff? 
asked -the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice- 
What was the nature of the charges made . at the inquiry relating to the Superintendent of Parks and Gardens? 
Have the charges been investigated? 
If so, with what result? 
The Minister for the Interior has furnished the following replies to the honorable senator's questions :  - 1, 2 and 3. No charges under the Public Service Act have been laid against the Superintendent of Parks and Gardens.Certain alleged irregularities were reported officially to the Permanent Head of the Department. In accordance with Public Service procedure, preliminary inquiries were made into these allegations. The question as to whether action under the Public Service Act should be taken is now under consideration by the Permanent Head of the Department. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this bill is to introduce a scheme of relief for the widows and widowed mothers of Australian soldiers, as defined in section 4 of the War Service Homes A.ct, and for the wives of Australian soldiers who are temporarily or permanently insane. The Government and, I think, honorable senators on all sides of the chamber are keenly interested in the welfare of widows and widowed mothers whose circumstances prevent them from making the full payments required under the contracts they have executed to purchase the homes which they occupy. The nature of the assistance which should be granted has been closely considered by the Government, and having in mind the general desire to secure for these purchasers security of occupation, a scheme of relief has been formulated which is covered by the new provisions in the bill - proposed new sections 29aa and 39a and the amendment to section 39. 
As honorable senators know, repayment instalments are designed to repay the purchase money, together with interest thereon, over the period for which the loan is granted. Proposed section 29aa gives to the Minister the power to assess the amount which shall be paid by a widow, widowed mother or wife of an Australian soldier on account of these instalments, and the balance will be paid from the fund established by proposed section 39 a. The difference between the amount determined to be paid and the purchase instalment, to be withdrawn from the relief trust account, will be charged in the usual way in the account of the purchaser and be made good when the home is sold by the purchaser or disposed of after her death. 
The Government realizes also that those purchasers who are unable to pay the full instalment cannot meet the rates, taxes and other outgoings which fall due from time to time. These charges will be paid on behalf of the purchaser from the amount standing to the credit of the relief trust account. Similarly, if the purchaser is not in a position to meet the cost of essential repairs, the commission, which has an arrangement in all States under which first-grade paints are supplied at reduced prices, will make available, at cost, the paint and other materials required, and will endeavour to arrange for the necessary works to be carried out with a minimum charge for labour. The expenditure on account of rates and taxes and repairs will be charged in the purchaser's account and, if she is unable to make any payment, will be recovered when the home is sold, or when realized upon after her death. 
Honorable senators will agree that the relief scheme which has been adopted by the Government will secure for the widow, or widowed mother or wife continued occupation of her house, remove the worry associated with the struggle to pay arrears, rates and taxes, and introduce payments based upon her ability to pay. I know of no other scheme of this character, and I feel that it will be of distinct advantage to those eligible to participate in it3 benefits. 
In asking honorable senators to accept this relief scheme, I assure them that each . case will be sympathetically considered. Before assessing the payment required from a purchaser, the whole of her circumstances will be carefully considered, and from time to time a sum which she can afford decided upon. This measure of assistance the Government is willing to extend; but if a purchaser, without good cause, fails to make the payments required, the commission will reluctantly be compelled to recover possession of the home. Whilst every  endeavour will be made to avoid that course, it is expected that purchasers will assist the Government to make the scheme a success. The relief scheme applies to the widows, widowed mothers and wives of Australian soldiers, and does not apply to the dependants of the other classes of beneficiaries who are eligible for assistance under the War Service Homes Act. 
With regard to returned soldier purchasers,theGovernment has decided to extend until next year the policy now followed, which is based upon the recommendations of the War Service Homes Committee of Inquiry. Those recommendations expired in June last, but the Government is of the opinion that the policy, which is on generous lines, should be continued for the present, and be reviewed in 1936-37. 
The other amendments, three in number, are more or less of a machinery character. The first deals with the tenure of the Commissioner, and seeks to increase the period for which he may be reappointed from "not exceeding three years " to " not exceeding five years ". It is not proposed to disturb the period of the original appointment, namely, " not exceeding three years ", but where a Commissioner has rendered satisfactory service and his reappointment is decided upon, it is' considered that the Governor-General should be in a position to grant a more extended tenure. By providing for a. maximum period of five years, that object will be achieved. 
The second amendment incorporates two- provisions. The first has for its object the omission of the proviso to section 36(1c), which restricts to £40 the cost of repairs to homes of which the Commissioner is in possession. The commission has on its hands properties which reverted to it as early as 1929. Every three or four years the homes must be painted and otherwise repaired, the cost being charged against the equity of the borrower, who is also credited with all receipts in the way of rental. If the borrower were in possession, he would have to meet these costs, failing which the commission would be empowered to have the necessary works carried out under section 31. The restriction referred to militates against satisfactory sales, as it is far easier to dispose of  a  home which has been placed in good repair than one which is dilapidated. Moreover, comparatively better prices can be obtained for renovated homes than for other . properties. The commission's experience is that the restriction has operated against the interests of borrowers, and its removal from the act will dispose of a definite disadvantage associated with its administration. The second provision makes the amendment retrospective. 
The final provision amends section 41, so that the Commissioner may offset the amount of an insurance claim against the balance owing by the purchaser. There is some doubt as to whether the existing section extends that power, and in order to place the matter on a proper basis, the present amendment is suggested. Difficulty arises only where the claim is less than the purchaser's liability under the contract entered into, not where the claim is in excess of the balance owing. The bill is a simple one, and I ask the Senate to give it a speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Col- lings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I regard it as a great privilege to introduce a bill to amend the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act, and, in dealing with a matter of such importance to so many members of the community, I believe that honorable senators will welcome a brief account of the activities of the commission since it was first appointed in July, 1920. The Repatriation Commission, which has been entrusted with the administration of the act, has concerned itself with not only the establishment of general principles calculated to conserve the interests of both the general community and the ex-soldiers and their dependants, but also has endeavoured to ensure that the provisions for the various classes of beneficiaries shall be maintained in equitable  relation, and that within the statutory limits the well-being of every individual entitled to benefits, for reasons arising out of war service,  shall  be carefully safeguarded. 
In order to meet the convenience of applicants, and to' effect a well-considered scheme of decentralization, a branch office of the Repatriation Department has been established in the capital city of each Stale. Each is under the control of a Deputy Commissioner for Repatriation, who is responsible to the commission, for the whole organization and administration in his State.  Ex officio,  the  deputy  commissioner is  chairman  of the State Repatriation Board, on which there is one member chosen from the commission's staff, and one returned soldier nominated by returned soldier organizations. Each board determines applications for war pensions or living allowances. There is also a Branch Purchase and Contract Board in each State to arrange the supply °y public tender, of commodities for use in the branch office and hospitals ; and a Soldiers' Children Education Board which deals with all matters regarding the scheme of education and training for the children of those who were killed, or who are totally and permanently incapacitated, or blinded as the result of war service. 
The Branch Purchase and Contract Board consists of an independent business man as  chairman  and two senior departmental officials; whilst the Education Board has on it representatives of the returned soldiers' associations, the Trustees of the  Sir Samuel  McCaughey Bequest, the primary, secondary and technical branches of the State Education Department, the University and non-State secondary schools, and the Repatriation Commission. 
To ensure that an appeal against a decision of the commission may be heard by an authority entirely independent of the normal departmental machinery, the Government has created four tribunals - two War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals consisting of a legal man as chairman, one representative of the Government and one nominee of returned soldiers, to determine whether a man shall receive a pension ; and two War Pensions Assessment Appeal Tribunals consisting of a legal man representative of returned soldiers as chairman and two medical men selected from a panel approved by the Minister, and having a special knowledge of the disability from which the appellant suffers, to decide the rate of pension which a man shall receive. 
A claimant for pension lodges an application to the branch office in the capital city of the State in which he resides, and after full investigation, including in most instances careful observation in hospital, the complete evidence is placed before the board which may approve or disapprove. If the claim is refused, an appeal may be submitted to the commission, and in the event of refusal, a further appeal lies to an Entitlement Appeal Tribunal. If, when a pension is granted, the recipient is dissatisfied with the rate, he has the right of appeal to an Assessment Appeal Tribunal. 
For the 264,000 soldiers who returned from service abroad, the commission, through its employment  activities, found over 280,000 positions, and to assist further in this desirable object, supplied tools of trade, necessary equipment and rail warrants to the value of over £2.250,000, whilst a sum of £450,000 was granted to the municipal authorities throughout Australia. At present, and for many years past, £2,500 is paid annually to the Returned Sailors' and Soldiers' Imperial League of Australia to assist in finding employment for returned soldiers. Through the commission's scheme of vocational and industrial training, over 27,000 men qualified as wage earners, and in practically every instance these were placed in employment, whilst 46,000 men were given efficiency courses in order to fit them to occupy positions of higher responsibility with consequent increase of pay. Gifts and loans totalling over £1,000,000 were made for furniture rind £422,000 was expended in establishing men in businesses. For the medical treatment of those suffering as a result of war service, there have been established up-to-date institutions efficiently staffed by returned men and women and visited regularly by leading consultant physicians and surgeons in the capital city of each State. Interesting on account of the skilful manufacture of artificial arms and legs, crutches, surgical boots and other artificial surgical aids are the Commonwealth Artificial Limb Factories. Available for consultant purposes in this work is a highly skilled orthopedic surgeon. Some idea of the vastness of the work performed will be gathered by honorable senators from the fact that in 1922 there were approximately 4,000 returned soldiers receiving treatment, whilst to-day this number has grown to approximately 19,000. Last year some 40,000 cases were treated and more than 146,000 outpatient attendances were recorded at departmental institutions and .clinics. 
One of the commission's valuable contributions to the civic life of the community is its scheme of training for the children of those who died, or who are totally and permanently incapacitated, or who are blinded as the result of their war service. These children are at all times under the personal guidance of teachers who take a great interest in their careers, and the scheme itself is governed by experts in primary, secondary, technical and university education. So far the scheme has cost over £1,500,000, the expenditure last year being approximately £S0,000. A total of 18,000 applications had been dealt with, and of the 10,000 children who have completed training and qualified for positions, almost every one is employed. Over 2,000 boys and approximately 2,000 girls are still attending school, whilst over 1,500 are serving apprenticeships or are  unindentured  apprentices; 1S9 are doing professional courses and 46 are in agricultural training. This living memorial to those who served and suffered is of immense benefit, not only to the children themselves, but to the community at large. 
In war pensions an amount exceeding *130,000,000 of money has been paid, iris expenditure last year exceeding £7,369,000. .Each fortnight £280,000, or £20,000 a day, is needed to meet this obligation. There are 75,000 soldiers and 189,000 dependants receiving pensions. The administrative cost for every £100 of pensions paid is £2 2s. 5d., and this is regarded as satisfactory. 
The whole of our repatriation scheme compares more than favorably with similar legislation in operation in any other country, and many of its features find no parallel elsewhere. The special rate of pension of £4 a week for those who are blinded or totally and permanently incapacitated, or who suffer from an advanced stage of pulmonary tuberculosis, is peculiar to Australia. The permanent pension at 100 per cent, rate to sufferers from pulmonary tuberculosis is not found elsewhere, nor is there such a liberal scheme of allowances for those who are confined to wheeled chairs or cots, or whose injuries are so severe as to warrant the constant services of an attendant. Honorable senators, I am sure, will agree, from this hurried resume of the activities of the department that successive governments have done all that is possible to alleviate sufferings directly traceable to the Great War. 
Experience gained in administering the provisions of the act, has made it abundantly clear that there was a large body of men who were suffering so severely that their employable usefulness had departed. These were suffering, some effects impossible to define, effects which were not directly or indirectly traceable to war service but which nevertheless made an insistent appeal for consideration by the Government. This class of sufferer was not confined to Australia; all the belligerent nations have had to cope with a similar problem, but only in Canada and New Zealand has special legislation been introduced to alleviate their conditions. In both Canada and New Zealand, an allowance approximating £1 a week for a single man and £2 a week for a married man has been granted, and after fully considering the situation in the Commonwealth, this Government has now decided to introduce special remedial measures. Shortly, it is proposed to make provision for a pension at 60 years of age for a soldier, and at 55 years of age for a nurse, who served in a theatre of war. This, in effect, is a reduction by five years of the age of eligibility for the old-age pension, and is a recognition by the Government that those former service men and women whose employable usefulness departs at an age earlier than it does in the case of a civilian, are due for special consideration. Irrespective of age, for those whose physical or mental condition renders them permanently unemployable,  the Government intends to grant a pension at the rate provided in the new bill, provided they served in a theatre of war, whilst to those former soldiers who suffer from pulmonary tuberculosis and whose condition has not been accepted for war pension payment, the Government intends to grant a service pension whether they served in a theatre of war or not or whether they are permanently unemployable or not. Having in view the necessity for doing everything possible to prevent the spread of pulmonary tuberculosis the Government also proposes to give free treatment in repatriation institutions for sufferers of this class, and to enable them to purchase extra or special foods as their condition necessitates, the tubercular sufferers will he permitted to draw invalid pension in addition to service pension. The maximum rate of pension will be 18s. a week for a single man or widower, 30s. a week for a man and his wife, and 2s. 6d. a week for each child, limited to four. The total allowed income in respect of any pensioner will be £79 6s. per annum. 
I emphasize that so far as social legislation in this country is concerned, the proposal now before the Senate is entirely new and it is easy to visualize the difficulties which will confront the administration. Honorable senators can call to mind certain classes of returned men who in some respects are abnormal, and whose ability to obtain and pursue remunerative employment is strictly limited. The class the Government has in mind in this respect is not so seriously afflicted as a totally and permanently incapacitated man, nor does the Government desire the definition to be so stringently interpreted as is necessary under the provisions of the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act. It is intended that in respect of those soldiers who, whilst not bedridden, or totally and permanently incapacitated for life, are, through physical or mental disablement, prevented from obtaining and following a remunerative occupation, each case shall he determined on its merits in a reasonable manner, due regard being paid to the applicant's experience, previous occupation and general, qualifications. The Government desires that the commission, in adminis tering the provisions for service pensions, shall act with both sympathy and commonsense. 
Whilst, no doubt, all will agree that the main object of this bill is to provide a new scheme of service pensions, to which I have made brief reference, it has another object. The Government proposes to liberalize the existing provisions. In many cases, the Repatriation Commission commuted pensions where the condition was stationary, where the proposition submitted was a sound one,  t.nd  where the degree of disability did not exceed 30 per cent. Unfortunately, since the pensioner accepted the lump sum, his conditions has retrogressed,  and the Government, after full consideration, has decided to restore pensions in commuted cases at a rate shown to be justified by medical examination. 
A most important clause in the bill gives the commission power to accept the death of a blinded soldier, of a totally and permanently incapacitated soldier drawing a pension under the second schedule of the act, and the death of a double amputation case, from any causes whatsoever, as being due to war service. Dependants of these three classes will then be eligible to receive increased  war  pension and other benefits as if the death of the soldier had been due to war sei* vice. Honorable senators will agree, ] am sure, that this is a very liberal action on the part of the Government. 
A further clause in the amending bill seeks to remedy certain injustices which some soldiers are now suffering. In December, 1921, the Repatriation Act was amended to permit of the payment of war pension in cases where a disability which i originated before enlistment was increased to a material degree us n result of war service. In such cases an applicant had to apply within six months of the amendment. This restriction is operating harshly and it is now proposed to repeal it so that a material aggravation case may apply at any time. The bill also extends the act to permit a material aggravation case to appeal  to  an entitlement appeal tribunal or to an assessment appeal tribunal. A further clause worthy of special mention limits the time within which the commission may appeal against the decision of an entitlement appeal tribunal. At present the commission may appeal at any time. It is now intended to reduce this period to six months, except in cases where the pension has been obtained by fraud or impersonation. 
The Government has authorized the commission to liberalize the basis of pensions payable to aged parents and other dependants who are without adequate means of support. Certain items which are now classed as income, such as friendly society benefits and gifts from children, will be disregarded in arriving at the amount of pension payable. This will result in some pensions being increased. The annual cost of the proposed new pensions and benefits is estimated to be - 

<graphic href="148332193512042_6_0.jpg"></graphic>

The proposals are a distinct step forward in affording benefits to returned soldiers and their dependants.  1  commend the measure to the earnest and sympathetic considerationof all honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
[11.33].--  I move- 
That the bill be now read a second  time. 
This bill provides for increasing, by an amount not exceeding  £4,500,  the sum payable to the State of Tasmania under section  9  of the Wheat Growers Relief Act  1934-1935.  Under that act provision is made for the payment to that State, by way of financial assistance, of  £4,100  for each month during which a tax is imposed upon flour under the legislation at present in operation. As Tasmania produces only a small quantity of wheat, and the amount required to finance the relief to the wheat-growers in that State was estimated to be comparatively small, this special payment to the State, was granted as a rebate, partly to offset the flour tax collected in respect of flour consumed in Tasmania. The monthly payment of  £4,100  was calculated on a basis estimated to represent the difference between the total flour tax that would be collected on flour consumed in Tasmania and the amount required for the relief of wheatgrowers in that State. Under the terms of an act passed by the Tasmanian Parliament, the government of that State has been utilizing the amounts paid to make refunds to millers and others in respect of the flour tax paid by them. The rate of refund was fixed by the Tasmanian Government to absorb approximately the actual amount received from the Commonwealth. It has now been ascertained that the consumption of flour in Tasmania was under-estimated, and that the payment made to that State under the Wheat Growers Relief Act at the rate of  £4,100  a month is proving insufficient to enable refunds at the rate adopted by the Tasmanian Government to be continued during the period in which the present flour tax is operative. The Tasmanian Government has made representations for payment of an additional amount. It is estimated that the amount required by that government will be between  £4,000  and  £4,500,  and Parliament is now asked to appropriate an amount, not exceeding  £4,500,  as may be approved by the Treasurer. If the bill be approved, it is proposed to authorize the payment to the Tasmanian Government of an amount sufficient to meet the actual payments made under the Tasmanian act to which I have referred ; but the amount is not to exceed  £4,500. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Col lings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That thebill be now read a  second time. 
This measure, which is supplementary to the Meat Export Control Bill recently passed by the Senate, is to provide a fund from which the administrative and other expenses of the Australian Meat Board will be paid. 
Other export control boards are financed in the same manner, and the system has been found to operate smoothly and effectively. The bill will enable a levy of one halfpenny per quarter in respect of beef, one halfpenny per carcass in respect of veal, and one penny per carcass, in respect of mutton, lamb and pork, to be collected on meat exported. Corresponding levies are also imposed on piece meat and canned meat. The rates specified are in accord with the maximum. levies. recommended at the Commonwealth Meat Conference held on the 5th of October, 1935, which was attended by Commonwealth and State Ministers, and members of the Commonwealth Meat Advisory Committee. Provision is made whereby, on the recommendation of the board, lower rates may be prescribed by regulation. It is also provided that any meat may be exempted from the charges upon report by the board to the Minister. The actual rates of levy to be imposed, and the classes of meat to which they will apply are therefore matters for determination by the board. On the basis of export during the year ended the 30th June, 1934, the maximum levies that could be collected would provide the board with a fund estimated at £25,000. That sum is much larger than will be required to meet the administrative expenses of the board and the cost of the London representative, but, it is intended that there shall be an adequate surplus to provide for the flurrying out of judicious propaganda or advertising campaigns to promote the sale of Australian meat overseas, and for undertaking any experiments, which in the opinion of the board, are calculated to improve the quality of Australian meat intended for export. Other boards already in existence advertise extensively, and each year utilize the larger portion of their revenue for this purpose. In this they are assisted by the Commonwealth Government, with the result that in no ca.sp has it yet been found necessary to impose flip maximum rate of levy. It is anticipated that the Australian Mont Hoard w'11 be in much the same position as other boards. Nevertheless it is desirable that the rates specified in the hill shall provide a margin for any  contingency  that might arise.  A  similar  system  has been adopted in other instances,  and  I commend the bill to the favorable  consideration  of the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator  Govlings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That tho bill be now rend it second time. 
The purpose of this bill is, first to  include  canned pineapples and canned fruit salad in the definition of " canned fruits " in the Canned Fruits Export Charges Act, 1926-1929, so that the definition will conform with that already shown in the Canned Fruits Export Control Act, 1926-1935;  and,  secondly, to validate charges' levied and collected on canned pineapples since 28th November, 1933, and on canned fruit salad since the 4th April, 1935, being the respective dates on which  these  products were brought under the supervision of the Canned Fruits Control Board. In response to representations from those engaged in the canned fruits industry, and in view of the fact thatcanned pineapples and canned fruit  salad  were becoming increasingly popular  in  overseas markets, the Canned Fruits Export Control Act 1926-1930  was  amended in 1933 and 1935,  to  bring  these  products within the provisions of that act. Coincident with the passage of the amending acts, a levy of one-twelfth of  a  penny for each 30 ounces of canned fruit exported was charged and collected  on  canned pineapples and canned fruit  salad  under the Canned Fruits Export Charges Act, in the same manner as a similar  levy  has been collected on canned apricots, peaches and pears exported from the Commonwealth. The whole of this  levy  is paid to the Canned Fruits Control Board to meet, the administrative expenses of the board in connexion with the orderly marketing of the products Und 21 its supervision, and for publicity and other services to the industry. Advice lias been received from the SolicitorGeneral that the charges levied and  collected  ou canned pineapples and canned fruit salad should .be validated by ah amendment of the Canned Fruits Export Charges Act. The bill, which is merely of a machinery nature, has been prepared to comply with that advice; and also to bring canned pineapples and canned fruit salad within the meaning of the term " canned fruits " in the act. In amending  the  . Canned Fruits Export Charges Act, provision has been made to enable the Minister to fix different rates of charges on different kinds of fruit should he so desire. A similar provision appears in the Dried Fruits Export Charges Act, and although it is not proposed at present to make use of the provision in regard to canned fruits, it is considered desirable to include it in the act should the necessity for such differentiation arise. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the  bill  be now read a second  time. 
This short amendment to the Financial Relief Act 1934 provides for an increase of the appropriation for  the fertilizer subsidy for the year 1934-1935. When the subsidy was introduced in 1932, it was explained that many of our primary producers were not obtaining the best results from their operations because of their inability to make the fullest use of fertilizers. In some districts it was feared that the results of the insufficient application of fertilizers, particularly on pastures and orchards, would extend far beyond the loss in yield for the year concerned, and would affect future production, because of the set-back given to the pastures, trees and vines. The Government, therefore, granted the subsidy of 15s. a ton to encourage primary producers other than wheat-growers to use at least the normal quantities of fertilizers and, if necessary for efficient production, to extend their use. The result of this policy has been a remarkable increase of the use of artificial manures in these classes of production. In the first year of operation a considerable quantity which would not otherwise have been used was applied, and in 1934-35, sales of fertilizers showed an increase of over 90,000 tons, most of which was for use on pastures, and in connexion with the production of fruit, vegetables, and other crops. When the bill providing assistance for 1934-35 was introduced, it was not anticipated, either by the Department of Commerce or by the trade, that there would be such an increase, and provision was not made for it. Even so recently as the middle of October there was no indication that the increase would be so marked, as the number of applications to that date represented a value of only £233,000. In the last 'fortnight of October, however, applications representing a sum of approximately £90,000 were received, and it is, therefore, necessary to increase the appropriation of £250,000 made for that year to £325,000 in order to provide funds for payment on the increased quantity used. The experience in respect of the year 1934-35 suggests that there is likely to be a considerable further amount required for the year 1935-1936, for which an amount of £275,000 has been provided (including provision for half-ton lots, which were not previously included), but it is as yet too early to make a definite estimate of what the increase is likely to be. The position will, however, be reviewed early next year. 
Having in mind the beneficial results accruing to our primary industries from the wider use of fertilizers, I commend this bill to the Senate for favorable consideration. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
Last night I was endeavouring to show the inconveniences endured by settlers in the far western districts of Queensland through the operation of the existing mail service. During the past few years the Postmaster-General's Department has been able to effect a saving of many thousands of pounds on these services.  and, as an instance of these substantial economies, I shall quote the WintonBoulia contract. Winton is situated at the rail head, and Boulia is 251 miles distant. In 1920 two mail contracts existed, one to serve the district between Winton and Middleton, which is 106 miles along the route, and the other to serve the settlers between Middleton and Boulia. The contract for the WintonMiddleton section was £526, and for the Middleton-Boulia section £330, a total of £856. During the period 1921-23 the Winton-Middleton contract was let for £550, and the Middleton-Boulia contract for £330, a total of £880. The contracts for the years 1924-26 showed a substantial decrease, the Winton-Middleton section .being let for £200 and the MiddletonBoulia section for £324, a total of £524. Further considerable economies were effected in the years 1927-29, when the Winton-Middleton contract was let for £49 and the Middleton-Boulia contract for £49, or a total of £98. In 1931-32 a tender for the transport of mails from Winton to Boulia was let for £286, and the present contract for the combined services, which does not expire until 1937, has been let for £190. This mail service is operated by motor lorry, which covers a distance of 502 miles every week. The wear and tear on the vehicle, plus the cost of benzine and oil, and incidental expenses, make it utterly impossible  for the contractor to obtain a profit from the tender of £190. What happens is that he makes up the difference between the present contract price of £190 and the 1921-2.3 contract price of £880 by the revenue he collects from the people in the closer settlement areas of the district which his motor lorry traverses. The settlers must obtain household stores and other requirements from Winton, and these commodities are brought to them by the contractor. These people are entitled to better facilities from the Postal Department than they are receiving. Before the country was subdivided into smaller areas, by which I mean holdings of 60,000 acres, it was held as large stations, and the' contractor delivered the mails direct to the homesteads. The resumed and subdivided areas are naturally on the outside of the station properties, and some of the settlers are many miles from the. mail route. One selector is obliged to travel 30 miles to Middleton to collect his mail. If there happens to be any urgent matter requiring a prompt reply, he must return to Middleton within the next three days to catch the mail, and thus he may be compelled to travel a total distance of 120 miles a week to deal with his correspondence. Four years ago I submitted to the department a scheme for a subsidiary mail to overcome this difficulty. I suggested the inauguration of a subsidiary service from Middleton, deviating from the main road' in order to serve eight settlers, and rejoining the ' main road about 15 miles further along the mail route. The deviation involved a distance of only 40 miles. Following a report by a departmental inspector, tenders were invited, and one of £70 was submitted. The department would not accept it, intimating that as the 1927-29 contract for a distance of 106 miles was let for only £49, it was not prepared to pay £70 for a 40-miles deviation. The department entirely omitted to consider the fact that the selectors  themselves  were indirectly paying the difference between the two contracts on the goods and parcels that they ordered from the railhead, thus enabling the contractor to tender for such a low amount. A departmental inspector interviewed the storekeeper and hotelkeeper in Middleton, hut I am given to understand that he did not visit the selectors themselves - the persons vitally interested - and, as his report was unfavorable to my suggestion, the plan for a subsidiary mail was rejected. The Minister should realize that these selectors have been too hard-pressed during the last ten years of drought to make any organized protest; but I contend that, in view of the substantial economies made by the department during the last few years on this route alone, the settlers who have made that saving possible should receive more favorable treatment. I have had brought to my notice details of four other similar cases in this district. Earlier in my remarks I stated that the postal facilities in some of the far western districts of Queensland were not so good as they were 25 years ago. This may be due to the fact that, as  the result of closer settlement, and lower contract prices the contractor is forced to depend to a greater extent on his revenue from the carriage of goods to and from the properties on his route. In some instances, a mail contractor finds that  he  has to delay his lorry  in  order to pick up or deliver goods. "When Cob*) and Company carried out mail contracts  in  the far western districts of  my  State 25 years ago, one of the terms of their contract required the mailman to cross  all  streams or rivers  if  the water were not higher than the saddle flaps. Nowadays water so deep  as  that would cover the radiator of  a  motor lorry. Thus the mail would be delayed till the water had receded. The contractor  is  naturally not to blame for this. It  is  due to the bad condition  of  the roads which are not under the control of the Postmaster-General's Department. From the departmental point of view  it  may  be  considered good business to save £690 a year on  One  mail contract, but the settlers who are served  by  the mail are seriously inconvenienced, and  in  view of the part which they play  in  developing our outback ureas they should receive more consideration than they are now getting from the department. 
.- The reply of the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  to the remarks of  Senator Brown  yesterday about the dismissal of  a  large number of returned soldier linesmen and mechanics who were temporarily employed  by  the department  in  Victoria was satisfactory up to a point. The replacement since the 1st July of 158 skilled linesmen and 50 mechanics  by  the engagement of junior apprentices  is  a disappointment to all of us who look to the Federal Government to ensure continuity of employmentfor those ageing diggers, all of whom are bread winners. . Whilst  we  all agree  as  to the necessity for finding employment for the youth of the community, I suggest that these returned soldiers have  a  major claim on the sympathy and consideration of the Government. They should not always live  in  fear of the possibility of being dismissed and themselves and their families forced on the dole. The Postmaster-General,  in  reply to a ques tion which I addressed to him recently, expressed the hope that within the next year or two approximately 50 per cent, of the vacancies occurring for linesmen would be filled by the appointment of returned soldiers who had passed the necessary examination. To some extent that assurance is satisfactory, because, half a. loaf is better than no bread. But I would remind him that although many of these linesmen passed the necessary examination so far back as 1927, they have not yet been placed on the permament staff. If I were Postmaster-General for about a fortnight I would find much to engage my attention in some centres of Victoria, notably Bendigo and Wangaratta. I regret to state that the principle of preference to returned soldiers has not been fully honoured in the Postal Department. With 663 uncompleted applications for the installation of telephones in Victoria, there should be no occasion for the dismissals of any linesmen or mechanics. I am aware that the official reply is that there is no provision on the Estimates of the Postmaster-General to allow of this work being carried out; but as considerable revenue is to be derived from ground rents of telephones, the necessary money should be found temporarily from some other source. I hope that the PostmasterGeneral will -give this matter his personal attention, and so avoid further dismissals, otherwise the approaching Christmas season will not be a happy one for many returned soldiers and their families. 
I support the remarks of  Senator Cooper,  who has directed attention to the unsatisfactory fulfilment of many mail contracts in the far-western districts of Queensland. What the honorable gentleman said applies to many districts in other States, and I was rather surprised at the apparent complacency with which the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  received the complaint from  Senator Cooper. 
I wonder if that is the explanation of the honorable gentleman's official attitude to the complaints of outback settlers? It should be the concern of the department to make available to pioneer settlers as many as possible of the amenities of civilization, including those inventions which eliminate time and distance and, by enabling settlers in remote areas to get in touch with the larger centres of population, make their lot a little easier. Residents iu the outback areas to which  Senator Cooper  has referred measure areas in thousands of miles, whereas smaller settlers in the Upper Hunter districts of New South Wales measure their areas in hundreds of miles. But their difficulties are in every respect identical. Settlers who are pioneering outback areas suffer definite disabilities, and are deserving of special consideration. There is too much evidence of a desire on the part of officialdom when inviting tenders for mail services to adopt a cheeseparing policy. In this way some savings may be effected, but not infrequently what at first sight appears to be a good piece of business is not necessarily good business at all. 
It is false economy to limit unduly expenditure designed to encourage closer settlement. I. have had brought to my notice many such instances of false economy. One in particular concerns a settler engaged in mixed farming, who before the depression had made application for the installation of a telephone in his home distant about 9 miles from the nearest exchange. The department informed him that lie could have the telephone if he entered into a. seven years' contract at a rental of £11 a year. I should add that for seven miles of the distance there were telephone lines connecting other subscribers, so the department incurred no additional expenditure for the erection of posts for that portion of the new service. Nevertheless, it required the subscribe;1 in cover the  co3t  of installation for the additional two miles. At the onset of the depression, as we all know. Commonwealth and State Ministers agreed to a plan to effect economies in every direction, and emergency legislation was introduced effecting, among other- things, a reduction of interest on advances, in order to ease the burden on the people generally. It is well known that government departments were extremely reluctant to give relief in respect of interest charges, and in this case the department itf used to make any reduction of the original rental. Even the Lands Department, New South Wales, under the Pastures Protection Act, charged settlers the full rate of 6 per cent, for advances for some considerable time, although it was shown that up till about eighteen months ago the most efficient dairy-farmers had lo be content with a return of 3d. an hour for their labour. I am wondering what  Senator Brown  would say if the people for whom he so often " barracks " in this chamber had to be content with that reward for their labour. I congratulate  Senator Cooper  upon having brought under the notice of the Senate the attitude of the Postal Department in connexion with mail contracts in outback areas. It is known that the department has been able to secure cheaper contracts largely as the result of closer settlement. The settlers who are rendering such splendid service to this country should receive more sympathetic consideration. 
 I wish to bring under the notice of the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  a subject of much importance in connexion with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Sydney Symphony Orchestra has had  Mr. W.  J. Grieves as its leader for practically the whole of its existence.  Mr. Grieves  is a man of high musical attainments, and has occupied a number of important positions in the musical world. During the Blanche Arral season, he conducted the orchestra as leader and  deputy  leader. He was also  deputy  leader and, later, lender of  the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, the Sydney Amateur Orchestra and the Sydney Philarmonic Society's Orchestra. He was also leader and first violinist of the orchestra during the Sheffield Choir Festival, and acted in a similar capacity during the Quinlan Opera. Company's production of the Wagnerian operas in " The Ring " and other grand operas. He aipo held a. similar position in the New South Wales State Orchestra, immediately succeeding the Verbruggen regime. 
In view of the explanation by the Postmaster-General, that this item refers to engineering and technical services, not to broadcasting programmes, I must rule that  Senator Arkins  would not be in order in continuing. 
.- I should like to reply to some of the points raised by individual senators. For instance,  Senator Abbott  objected to certain people who had made application for telephones being asked to pay a deposit and give certain guarantees. Obviously, if the department is to incur an expense of, say, £200, in the construction of a few miles of telephone line, it does not want the service to be discontinued after a few months, as has happened on many occasions. 
I compliment the Minister on what has been done to extend the hours during which about 40 country telephone exchanges remain open.  His  action will be of great benefit to country residents. As  Senator Abbott  referred to the difficulty experienced by people living seven or eight miles from an exchange in obtaining telephone connexions, I draw the attention of the Senate to a new system which has been evolved in Great Britain whereby a number of persons may use the same telephone line, and, by making selective calls, engage in conversation which cannot be overheard by the other users of the line. "With such a system in operation, ten separate  persons,  living 10 miles from a telephone exchange, who would ordinarily require 200 miles of wire to provide them with separate telephone installations, may engage in private conversation by the erection of only 20  miles  of line. The committee will readily recognize that such a system would make telephones available to many country resi dents who are now unable to pay the high cost of separate installations. I understand that a measure of success has attended the experiments with his system which have been carried out in Australia by officers of the department, and that in other" parts of the world the new system has proved effective. If the department could erect party lines on that system, the difficulty mentioned by Senators Abbott and Cooper would soon be overcome. I know of many instances of individual country residents paying for the erection of from 20 to 30 miles of line in order to ensure that their conversations would not be overheard. Under the system which I have mentioned, that heavy expenditure would be saved because the cost would bc shared by ten or twelve subscribers. 
I have repeatedly referred to the rural automatic system which was inaugurated about 192S. There are 20 or 30 such exchanges in operation to-day, rendering great service to country residents by providing continuous service, instead of a service restricted to a limited number of hours each day. The cost of maintaining a rural automatic exchange is not a great deal more than that of a manual system, and it has the further advantage of giving a continuous service. I know that the Postmaster-General intends to install more of these exchanges during the coming year, but, in my opinion, he could do more than hi? proposes. The extension of this class of exchange would be greatly appreciated by the rural community who are not at home during the hours that most manual exchanges in the country are open for business. The farmers are still at work in the fields when the manual exchanges close at 6 p.m. They wish to be able to use the system later in the evening, and the rural automatic system gives them the opportunity to do so. 
I wish now to refer to Item E4 of Division 127 - " National Broadcasting Services, £9,260 ". Broadcasting in Australia is only twelve years old. 
I propose to connect my remarks with the item " National broadcasting services " insofar as the linking of A class stations with B class stations is concerned. 
There is a special item for research. This item does not cover research. I submit that the linking of A class and B class stations may be dealt with under this item. 
Item. E4 of Division 129 also deals with "national broadcasting services ". Are we not entitled to discuss broadcasting under either item ? 
As the B class stations use the lines provided by the Postmaster-General, I submit that I am in order in referring to B class stations. 
These lines are used for broadcasting services. May I proceed,  Mr. Chairman,  to discuss the subject to which I have referred? 
Surely I would bo in order in discussing the transmission of programmes from one B class station to another B class station? 
I accept your ruling.  Mr. Chairman. 
The item relating to broadcasting appearing in these Estimates covers expenditure incurred in supplying engineering services, information of an advisory character, research into the science of radio, and engineering investigations which are constantly being made in every centre in Australia to ascertain whether channels are functioning rightly for the efficiency of the services as a whole. But this provision has no relation to the work of the B class stations except, as  Senator Gibson  has pointed out, insofar as those stations hire from the department lines on which to transmit their programmes. That, however, is not an item of expenditure. 
These estimates make provision for the department's telephonic, telegraphic and radio activities. To discuss the whole subject of broadcasting at this juncture would, I suggest, be out of order. 
'There is no such provision in these Estimates. 
TheCHAIRMA N. - In any case, the committee has already dealt with division 26 and cannot revert to it. 
To clarify the position, I point out that the Broadcasting Commission is governed by a special act. If honorable senators refer to that act, they will see that the revenue and expenditure of the commission are dealt with there. Further, if they also examine a report which I tabled this morning, they will see that the accounts of the commission are kept separate from the general Treasury accounts. 
Last evening  Senator Allan  MacDonaid asked a question concerning the northwest air mail services. I point, out that the provision of air mail services is under the control of the Department of of Civil Aviation, which decides upon the routes to be followed, and deals directly with such matters as ground work and direction finding. However, when services are provided between certain points, the Postmaster-General takes advantage of them for the dispatch of  His  Majesty's mails. If the honorable senator refers to page 18 of the memorandum circulated by the Department of Civil Aviation in reference to its estimates, he will find this matter dealt with there. Thus, eager as it is to utilize air services for the carriage of mails, the PostmasterGeneral's Department does not fix the routes, hut if such services run to a schedule to suit the department, it takes full advantage of them. 
That may be, but the honorable senator, as I pointed out the other day, is aware that certain difficulties exist in this respect. I entirely sympathize with the suggestion for the provision of better communication generally by air. The department's interest in this matter is evidenced by the establishment during the last three or four months of air mail- services to Tasmania, Mount Gambier and Port Lincoln, from Tennants Creek to Alice Springs, and from Alice Springs to Adelaide. The last-named service carried mails on a poundage basis, and has had a somewhat chequered career. Honorable senators may rest assured that the existing services will be improved and synchronized as soon as possible, and as existing difficulties gradually disappear. 
-The overseas air mail is not under the control of the Postmaster-General's Department. That, department stands very much in the same relation to air services as it does to railway services. We merely load the mails on to the trains and the planes. To a certain extent the time schedules of these services are arranged to suit' the department's convenience for the despatch of mail matter; other than that, however, we have no say in regard to routes or time tables. 
That is so, and it has endeavoured to exercise that influence so far as possible. 
The mail services to outlying country districts, to which  Senator Cooper  re ferred, has given the department considerable worry. I cannot, blame the department or  any  of my predecessors for getting the mails  carried  at reduced rates.I understand that the Boulia to Middleton service  has  been examined, but the honorable senator's suggestion fora subsidiary  service  will be investigated immediately, and, if possible, something will be done to afford relief to the settlers. 
As to improving conditions in respect of mail services generally the department considers that the present regulations are framed on a very liberal scale, and that the interests and requirements of settlers in outlying country districts have been safeguarded. During the depression, it was found necessary to curtail certain services, but since the return of more prosperous times services which were previously withdrawn have been gradually replaced where the circumstances justified such action. A departmental officer, skilled in the carriage of mails, is reviewing the services which had been curtailed, and to date it has been possible to reestablish no less than SO services. That investigation is still proceeding, and partial provision is made in these Estimates for the establishment of new services, and increasing the frequency of existing services, where and when such improvements become justified. 
Yes , but those services are gradually being improved. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

Honorable senators may be interested to learn that 80 new postal services have been inaugurated since the financial position became easier. Having in view the vast territory over which the department operates it is impracticable to say which services are deserving of the most consideration ; but it is the endeavour of the department to provide services where the need is greatest. I think that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  directed attention to the considerable increase of the number of employees in the postal department. If the increase continues in the present ratio, it is expected that by the end of the present financial year the department will have absorbedmost of the adult permanent employees performing the work of juniors, and thereafter when further vacancies are to be filledapplications will be invited. In September last 900 adults were performing the work of juniors, but since that time quite a number have been given other work. The position in Victoria, which is remarkable, was due largely to the rush of postal business during the visit of  His  Royal Highness, the Duke of Gloucester, flood conditions and other unusual circumstances. This necessitated the employment of a larger number of employees than would have otherwise been necessary. I. assure  Senator Brand  that the policy of preference to returned soldiers is adhered to more strictly in the PostmasterGeneral's Department than perhaps in any other branch of the service. 
I remind  Senator Abbott  and  Senator Cooper,  who referred to the necessity for a reduction of the charges by mail contractors in various centres that in all cases tenders are called for the carriage of mails. Those carrying mails under contract are able to carry goods to settlers at a cheaper rate than they would otherwise be able to do because of the subsidy they receive from the department. It would be a mistake to conduct such services on other than a competitive basis. I know of only one instance in which dissatisfaction exists between the contractor and the department. If certain settlers have to pay more for the carriage of their stores than they consider necessary, it is a matter over which the department has no control. I remind  Senator Abbott,  who referred to a sevenmile limit, that there is a -formula upon which the department always acts. There has been some relaxation in the matter of finance during the last few months, and in consequence the department has been able to construct new telephone lines, the number of which I hope to be able to state to the committee later. The telephone services mentioned by  Senator Gibson  are a matter to which I have given a good deal of attention. I do not regard a telephone service terminating, as it does in some centres, at 6 p.m., as a real service to country settlers. The department is endeavouring to extend the hours during which exchanges remain open in a number of centres. In some instances those closing at 6 p.m. will now close at 8 p.m. and those which previously closed at 8 p.m. will remain open until 10 p.m. I believe that extended hours of service have been introduced at 500 country exchanges. A month ago 26 auto- matic exchanges had been erected in various centres and five others were in course of erection. In addition to the 31 exchanges mentioned another 44 are to be put in hand this year.  Senator Gibson  suggested the adoption of the selective ringing system. I believe that  Mr. Brown,  who is an engineer, does not view the system favorably. I shall, however, ascertain to what extent it has been examined by the department. 
 From time to time the unsatisfactory conditions existing at the Brisbane post office and at the post office a t Fortitude Valley, have been brought under the notice of the Government. The latter office which is very old, is some distance from the main shopping centre, which involves those conducting large retail emporiums in a great deal of expense in sending their parcels to the post office, or to a depot in the city. 
Can the PostmasterGeneral say whether it is a fact that there are no telephone facilities at North Ainslie, Canberra, where the residents numbering several hundreds, have to travel by car or send a messenger when they wish to communicate with a doctor ? 
 I desire to ask your ruling,  Mr. Chairman,  whether under the item " payment to Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited for hire and operation of broadcasting stations, £6,600 ", it is competent for honorable senators to discuss broadcasting in all its aspects? I also ask for a definite ruling in respect of the item " contribution to Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited towards cost of wireless stations £37,000" and '/National Broadcasting Services £9,260 ". Upon those items are wc entitled to discuss broadcasting generally ? 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Northern Territory. 

 Proposed vote, £159,404. 
 I desire to refer to the matter of a subsidy paid to John Burke Limited, an enterprise which maintains a service in the Northern Territory from the Albert River to the Macarthur and Roper Rivers with the auxiliary ketch  Noosa.  I have a copy of a letter which this company has addressed to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson),  asking for the reinstatement of a subsidy of £2,000, which was formerly granted to the company by the Commonwealth to assist it in carrying on shipping services between the river ports of the Northern Territory. This sum of £2,000 was the Commonwealth's share of a subsidy of £6,000, the balance of which was contributed by the Government of Queensland. The letter states - 
At the end of five years the Commonwealth discontinued its portion of the subsidy . . . in spite of this we carried on the service at £4,000 without in any way increasing freight rates. . . . We are submitting for your consideration that your Government again subsidizesour Gulf service, and in return for the first £1,000 subsidy, we will reduce freight 20s. a ton, and for the second, a further 20s. a ton, with the exception in the second case that these present special rates will not be affected beyond the first reduction. 
The letter further points out that the development of the Northern Territory depends on transport at a reasonable cost, and if this can be provided, population will be attracted. Will the Minister explain the attitude of the Government towards the request for the reinstatement of this subsidy? 
[2.35].  -  At present a subsidy of £2,150 is being paid to John Burke Limited, a company operating a fourweekly service from the Albert River to the Roper and McArthur rivers. I am aware that the company has made representations to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson)  for the reinstatement of the subsidy. The Minister has submitted to Cabinet certain proposals in relation to the cheapening of freights in land transport in the Northern Territory, and he has also under consideration the matter of sea freights. In that connexion I shall see that the honorable senator's request is brought under the notice of the Minister.. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Federal Capital Territory. 

 Proposed vote, £258,000. 
Will the Minister furnish some information concerning the item, " Tourist Bureau - publicity, £200 "? I consider that more publicity could with advantage be given to Canberra other than through its parliamentarians. If we had more of the Yankee " boost " methods, with which Americans advertise their cities, it would be of great benefit to our national capital. Canberra is worthy of advertisement, both for its splendid climate and its scenic attractions. Hundreds of civil servants have been transferred here, and in the course of time it will be difficult for them to find avenues for employment for their children unless Canberra can be developed. I sincerely believe that this city can also be made an ideal health resort. Suitable publicity of its various attractions could be given through the medium of the Tourist Bureau, hut evidently less money is to be spent this year than last year in this direction. 
Admittedly tourists are one means of advertising Canberra ; but I consider that it is necessary to have an established, efficient publicity bureau to make known far and wide the beauties of the national capital. 
Even now, mort tourists are visiting Canberra than can be accommodated. One honorable senator was turned out of his hotel last night owing to lack of accommodation, which demonstrates that even gentlemen who art here regularly cannot always find lodgings. If Canberra is to be developed as a city, apart from its purpose as the seat of government, greater publicity should be given to it. I am making a plea for efficient publicity, and I believe that I have the support of all honorable senators. 
[2.40 .  -  The comparatively small amount contained in this vote is necessary to cover items such as photography and the printing of maps and literature. In some years more matter is printed than in others, but I quite agree with  Senator Brown  that there is scope for more publicity in regard to Canberra, and I shall see that his remarks are brought, under the notice of the Minister. Furthermore, I shall inform the Minister of the applause with which  Senator Brown's  appeal was received by other honorable senators. 
Unfortunately, the railways do not come under the control of the Commonwealth Government. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Both the responsible Minister and the Government have made repeated requests to the railway authorities of New South Wales for a better service, but apparently with little success. 
That, would not solve the problem, because the provision of rolling-stock would still be controlled by the Railway Department of New South Wales. Such a possibility was examined, I believe, when the honorable senator was a Minister, and he, like others of us, shied at the cost involved. The Government is conscious that the train service to Canberra is anything but. satisfactory.  Senator MassyGreene  informed me of an experience which befell him last night, and which I intend to bring under the notice of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson).  The Minister informed Cabinet that he had obtained a distinct promise from the Railway Department of New South Wales that the carriage generally known as " the dog box " would not be put on the train, again. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That was a distinct breach of an honorable understanding. J. assure honorable senators that Ministers suffer the same disability as they do; there is undoubtedly room for considerable improvement. 

 Senator ARKINS (New South Wales)  2.43].  -  I support the remarks of  Senator Brown  in regard to the Tourist Bureau for Canberra. Not enough publicity is given to the beauties of this city, and, furthermore, not enough attention is paid to the fact that: Canberra is the national capital of Australia. I am reminded that scores of tourists who have journeyed to Canberra have commented on its remarkable beauty and bracing climate This national capital has as many scenic attractions as,- possibly, any "other city in the world. Further, it enjoys a healthgiving climate - a fact which, I believe, is reflected in the appearance of honorable senators themselves. Has the Minister any figures showing the number of tourists who visit Canberra? 
 No, but the numbers ave increasing. 
I consider that statistics should be kept. Honorable senators have referred to the inadequate railway facilities. If the tourist traffic be increased, naturally the railway service will be improved. 
I disagree with the honorable senator. I consider that first we must attract larger numbers of tourists to Canberra before we can hope for a substantial improvement of the railway services. If better facilities were provided for tourists they would have a higher appreciation of the many beauty spots of Canberra and leave it with an added sense of the responsibility of the National Parliament. I hope that more publicity will in future be given to the many attractive features of the Federal Capital Territory area, and thus encourage a greater volume of tourists. 

 Senator J. V. MacDONALD  (Queensland)  2.49].  -  I agree that more attention should be given to the proper advertising of the Federal Capital area. Having lived here for a large portion of the last three years, I have, perhaps, a more intimate knowledge of its many attractive features than have other honorable senators. The publication -nf an attractive booklet describing the leading scenic features of the capital city, and containing a number of good photographs, would be a splended advertisement for the national capital, but unless the publication were well produced, there would be the possibility that it would be picked up by a tourist and. perhaps, thrown away, as happens in the ease of so many cheaply produced publicity pamphlets. The production would require to be of such a kind as to encourage tourists to keep it and show if to friends upon their return to their homes. Thus it would be a lasting advertisement for the national capital. The cost of such a publication would be money well spent. The people of Canberra, and the business community in particular, arcdisappointed at the comparatively slow transfer of administrative staffs from Melbourne. The provision this year is £6,500 in excess of the sum provided in 1934-35; but the Defence and PostmasterGeneral's Departments, the largest employing sections of the Administration, have still to come here. It is well known that many people entered into business in Canberra in the expectation that the transfer of public departments would bo carried out without interruption, so the interference with those arrangements during the depression years caused considerable disappointment. Improved facilities for tourists would encourage more people to include Canberra in their itinerary, and the business people here would receive a certain amount of compensation for the delay in transferring* the public departments. Under existing conditions, many visitors arrive in Canberra in the morning, and after driving from the railway station through the city area, taking in Parliament House and the Civic Centre, leave by the evening train. Some, I fear, go away with unfavorable impressions and a little bit dissatisfied. This may be because they have not had a reasonable opportunity to appreciate the many beautiful features of the capital city. Very few of them, for instance, have the time a't their disposal to climb  Mr Ainslie  to enjoy from thatelevation of 700 feet a. panoramic view of the many attractive features of the city layout, nor are they encouraged to visit the Cotter dam, to see the junction of tho waters of the Mumimbidgee and Cotter Rivers or admire the beauty of the many picnic areas that have been established there. There is, I understand, a voluntary tourist, organization in Canberra. I feel sure that its activities could be widely extended if it received further assistance from the Government. People come here from all parts of Australia, with a patriotic desire to see a national capital in the making, but, unfortunately, owing to lack of facilities, many of them are allowed to wander about in a more or less aimless fashion, and, as I have said, some probably go away a little disappointed. This should be the show place of Australia. If the proper measures were taken it would be possible to attract a much larger number of tourists. When the remainder of the departments are transferred the population of the city will be almost doubled, and future tourists will then be able to get a better idea of the intentions of the designers of the national capital. 
I notice that provision is made for the expenditure of £3,000 on the vocational training of youths in Canberra. I have been living in Canberra continuously since the beginning of September, and as I have not yet come across the vocational training establishment I should like to know where it is and also the nature of the vocational training given in it. I agree with the other honorable senators, that Canberra has much to show the tourist. This is a city of which Australia might well be proud; but under existing conditions many visitors have not a reasonable opportunity to see all that it offers to the tourist. Travellers arriving by train have rather a hit or miss experience. If the tourist bureau could be situated in the vicinity of the railway station, it would be able to render assistance to visitors that would be much appreciated. Tourists who come by * road have their own means of transport. They are not dependent on a local tourist organization; hut the people who come by train require some guidance. If at the Canberra railway station, the tourist bureau had an officer, like the man in grey on the Spencer-street railway station, Melbourne, who is never non-plussed, and can answer every question, the difficulties of many tourists would be smoothed away. 
Useful as the honorable senator would, no doubt, be as a tourist agent at the Canberra railway station, his services to the nation are, I feel sure, more valu able in the Senate. I believe that much good would be done if arrangements were made to have a tourist agent at the Canberra railway station. We had a similar difficulty some years ago in Western Australia at the port of Fremantle which, as honorable senators are aware, is the front door of Australia. At that time visitors arriving on overseas ships were often in a quandary as to what to do and what to see in the limited number of hours at their disposal, before the vessel resumed its voyage to the eastern States, so the local tourist agency established a bureau in a convenient location on the wharf for overseas visitors and the facilities now provided enable tourists to see the best features of Perth and its environs without delay. The adoption of a similar course in Canberra would have beneficial results. 
, - In reply to the inquiry made by  Senator Allan  MacDonald with regard to vocational training in Canberra I may state that in December, 1933, a scheme for vocational training was placed before Cabinet by  Mr. James  Nangle, late superintendent of technical education in New South Wales, and Cabinet decided that the sum of £1,000 should be made available for expenditure during the balance of that year for the training of youths in carpentry, joinery, plumbing and motor mechanics. No expenditure was incurred in t-hat year. The sum of £3,000 has been provided to cover expenditure for this year, pending the adoption of a definite scheme in regard to which certain proposals are under consideration. The proposals are for vocational training in carpentry, motor mechanics, plumbing, and farm mechanics. Negotiations with the various trade unions have had satisfactory results, and it is now proposed to go ahead with the scheme. 
I shall bring before the Minister for the Interior the suggestion of  Senator Allan  MacDonald that the Tourist Bureau should be situated at the railway station and ask him to consider placing it in juxtaposition to " Big Bertha ", which rests in such picturesque surroundings in the vicinity of the railway station. 
.- Item C31 of Division 144 seeks to appropriate £1,000 for "Payment to Government of New South "Wales for improved railway facilities ". The description is incorrect in that the word "improved" has been wrongly used. Only this morning, a number of senators who travelled by train from Goulburn to Canberra had the unenviable experience of spending about six hours on the journey. The train which left Goulburn soon after 7 o'clock did not reach Canberra until after 1 o'clock - more than half an hour late. At. two stations it remained for about half an hour. Surely something can be done to improve such an unsatisfactory service. I do not know whether the fault lies with the Railways Department of New South Wales or with the Commonwealth Government. If the Commonwealth is responsible, I suggest that it would be better to send one or two motor cars to Goulburn to meet members on those days when the early train does not run to Canberra. The speed of the Limited Express is too great for such a light car as the " dog box " in which we travelled from Albury and which is attached to the rear of the guard's van. There was no conductor on board, and one of the passengers was unable to enter his compartment without damaging the door severely. Perhaps that damage may convince the authorities of the unsuitableness of the car. I hope that the money to be provided will be expended in really improving the railway facilities to the Federal Capital. 
I should also like some information regarding Item 04 of Division 144 - " Rabbit and Dingo Extermination - £2,S00". Last year, the sum of £3,250 was voted for this purpose and £2,742 expended. I assume that, although the money is provided for the extermination of both rabbits and dingoes, most of it is used to destroy rabbits. It is scarcely an advertisement for the Federal Capital that it should be known that dingoes abound there in such numbers as to require a vote for their extermination. I hardly think that the item has reference to political " dingoes ". I should like to know what proportion of the amount expended last year was devoted to the destruction of dingoes. 
The sum of £2,S00 provided for rabbit and dingo extermination is to  cover the  salaries of a number of rangers and keep roads and forest plantations in various parts of the Federal Capital Territory free of rabbits. Although the honorable senator has probably not seen any dingoes within the City of Canberra, he would hear them howling if he were to take a trip at night into the nearby mountains. 
As to the need for improved railway facilities to which  Senator Grant  referred, an arrangement was entered into with the Railways Department of New South Wales whereby T.A.M. sleeping cars were to be run cn the Albury-Canberra .and Sydney-Canberra routes for twelve months from the 1st December, 1934, at a cost to the. Commonwealth Government of £1,000 per annum . The item provides  for the  continuation of that arrangement. 
When  Senator Allan  MacDonald suggested that the Tourist Bureau should be transferred to the railway station, I thought that he might also have made the alternative suggestion that the railway station should be brought nearer to the centre of the city. It .is a bad advertisement for the Federal Capital Territory that passengers are required to leave the train at  a  spot  two  or three miles from nowhere. One of the first improvements which should be made is the erection of a railway station in a more central position. 

 Senator PAYNE (Tasmania [3.8]. - I wish to supplement the remarks of  Senator Allan  MacDonald regarding the vocational training of youths in the Federal Capital Territory. I believe in the system of vocational training, but I should like to know the prospects ahead of these lads after their training has been completed. 
I mention this subject because I know of instances of large sums of money having been spent on the technical education and vocational training of youths, and after their training had ended, no work was available for them. 
I welcome any scheme which will absorb the youths who are growing up in this territory, and I hope that what is contemplated under this item will have beneficial results. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Papua, £63,146 ; Norfolk Island, £4,000- agreed to. 
Second schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clauses 2 and 3 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
It is refreshing to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  support a measure introduced by this Government. I welcome this bill, particularly because it is a very generous recognition by the Government of the fact that its responsibility towards the returned soldier does not end with the death of the soldier, but continues in respect of his widow or his widowed mother. The fact that 36,895 war service homes .have been constructed throughout Australia proves the extent and importance of this legislation, and, assuming that the soldier predeceases his wife, this legislation will cover a still larger group of individuals. It is readily recognized that the earning capacity of the widow is less than that of her husband. Thu*. it is only right that the Minister should have the power, if in his wisdom he so decides, to fix a smaller rate of repayment by widows occupying war service homes. lt stands to the credit of this scheme that out of £18,000,000 due in instalments to extinguish finally these loans only £1,003,000, or 5 per cent, of the total, is overdue. A further proof of the way in which the returned soldiers have stood up to their responsibilities is the fact that since the inception of the scheme £23,000,000 of these loans has already been repaid. Having regard to these points, I urge that the Government should, in the current year, and in future years, be a little more generous in granting loans in respect of war service homes. The 1935 report of the commission points out that last year only 24 new homes were built. The amount paid into the sinking fund in 1932-33 was £560,000, and in 1933-34, £419,000. In view of these liberal repayments, and the fact that only 24 homes were built last year, J suggest that the Government is in a position to extend much more generous treatment to returned soldiers by undertaking a greater building programme in the future. Many applications for new homes, even to my own knowledge, are awaiting consideration by the commission. It is only right and proper that tho Government should extend the greatest possible benefits to returned soldiers under this legislation. I endorse the provision empowering the Minister to fix the rate of repayment on war service homes, because in a scheme of such magnitude covering 36,000 homes, many purchasers have been unable to honour their commitments either owing to general economic causes or, in some cases, because of special causes. According to the commission's report for 1935, 2,600 of these homes have reverted to the commission, and of these 2,543 have been sublet, on a rental basis. Oan the Minister assure me that, when a home reverts to the commission, every effort is made on the part of the commission to see that preference is given to returned soldiers when it is looking for a new tenant. I believe the Minister can give me this assurance. It might be argued that the commission should not be so restricted in finding tenants for those homes, but I contend that in this matter the ordinary commercial code cannot be applied, because the principle of war service homes legislation should still hold good here; that is, the first consideration of the commission should be to see that every returned soldier is given proper shelter. In all cases generous treatment should be given to these men. 
The second main provision of this measure is that which allows the commission to spend more than £40 on repairs to a home that has reverted to it. That is a reasonable provision, because most homes which are repossessed by the commission will naturally be found to be in a state cif disrepair, and, therefore, .will be an unsaleable unit.  In  the majority of such cases, more than £40 would be required to repair a home effectively. I assume that this is the reason for this particular provision. The commission will thus be enabled to repair many of these 2,600 homes which it has repossessed, and which are now occupied by new tenants, with the idea of making them more attractive and saleable on the open market. I ask the Minister what is the position in respect of reverted homes which are occupied to-day by returned soldiers if the commission has an opportunity of selling such homes? Are the present tenants to be dispossessed in order that the commission may be able to secure a sale or will a returned soldier now renting a home be given an opportunity to buy it ? I presume that in such cases every opportunity will be given to the returned soldiers to purchase the home rather than that he should be forced to secure another home. Generally speaking, I agree with the bill. It is  in  accordance with the principles embodied in the amending war pensions legislation, which will extend most, generous treatment to returned soldiers I support this bill; it is most humane and practical legislation. 
.- I support, the bill. The features of the measure which I intended to deal with have been covered by  Senator Hardy,  and I endorse his remarks. In regard to the difficulties of occupants of war service homes whose repayments are in arrears, I point out that many of these homes were built between -1921 and  1929, at the peak of the building boom when prices were so high that the occupants, even many who were in constant employment, could not keep up their payments of interest and principal. Eight from the beginning, occupants of war service homes have found it difficult to keep up such payments, but when the depression came even those in permanent employment found it very hard to meet their commitments. Difficulties were also experienced because many purchasers were  out  of work, working only part time, or suffering from sickness. In cases where the death of a purchaser occurred, the widows were heavily involved. I congratulate the Government upon having introduced the bill, and I commend it for the policy which it proposes to pursue. This policy, however) appears to be entirely opposed to the report of the war service homes Commissioner, in which the State Bank of South Australia was severely criticized for administering the act on the lines now proposed in this bill. The report of the War -Service Homes Commissioner for the year ended the 30th June,, 1935, appears to be devoted largely to an attack upon the South Australian authorities for the manner in which activities were conducted in that State prior to the 1st January, 1935, when the administration was transferred to the War Service Homes Commission. It appears that every effort has been made to show matters in the worst possible light. Some of the comments in the report are not only unfair, but also deliberately misleading. Under the heading of "Arrears of rent" the following statement appears : - 
In the case of one district it was discovered that the local agent had collected approximately £.155 in rent dating from December, 1031, which had not been paid to the bank. A sum of £05 was forwarded to the commission in January, 1035, and the balance in the following month. 
Any one reading that statement would naturally infer that the War Service Homes Department made the discovery and collected the money, whereas the facts are these: The State Bank had been pressing the local agent for the remittance of rents collected, but owing to protracted illness, he pleaded, he had been unable to attend to his business and that his books were not posted to date. The bank continued pressure for a statement of accounts and a remittance, and finally on the 11th January, 1935, the State Bank received from the local agent a remittance of £95. Actually the State Bank collected the £95 which, with, the amount of £60, was paid to the department. In view of this_ fact the report appears to be deliberately misleading. The bank endeavoured to administer the act from a commonsense point of view, and it kept in close touch with the particular case. It concentrated on collecting the money without inflicting hardship upon the agent or upon .the individual householders. On page 6 of the report, under the heading " Financial Settlements," this statement appears - 
It was arranged that the State AuditorGeneral, and the chief auditor for the Commonwealth in South Australia should prepare a statement on which adjustment of the financial position could be effected. Previously, however, the items of adjustment had been agreed upon between the parties, South Australia being represented by the  Chairman  of the State Bank Board of Management, who, as State Under -Treasurer, also acted for the Treasury. This proceeding was somewhat protracted on account of the. further claim submitted on behalf of the State, the complications arising from the use of State funds in connexion with Commonwealth homes and the expenditure of Commonwealth funds on State homes. 
It was never arranged that the Auditor should prepare a statement on which adjustment of the financial position could be effected. The arrangement made was that the main principles of the transfer should be included in the agreement to be signed on behalf of the respective governments, and the details of the settlement were to be worked out by the War Service Homes Commissioner and the Under-Treasurer of South Australia. That procedure was actually followed. 
Yes. The War Service Homes Commissioner made certain claims for losses which South Australia was not prepared to concede, and also intimated that he would not take over the advances made on eleven leasehold securities. These unexpected demands naturally delayed . the settle- ment, and it was finally arranged that in consideration of the Commonwealth making an  ex gratia  payment of £7,000 South Australia would pay the rates owing on reverted war service homes and accept liability for the advances outstanding on the eleven leaseholds referred to. Sections 1 and 2 of the War Service Homes Agreement Act 1934 of South Australia read - 
In consideration of the Commonwealth permitting the Treasurer of the State to retain out of any moneys received by him on account of war service homes as defined in the agreement any sums owing to the State for water and sower rates payable on these homes, the Treasurer of the State may transfer the balance of the advances made by the State Bank on eleven leasehold securities from the war service homes account to the Advances for Homes account of the State, and may repay to the Commonwealth the balance of the principal sum outstanding in connexion with such advances. 
Upon the transfer to the advances for homes account of the State of the balances of the advance on leasehold securities referred to in sub-section 1 of thissection those advances shall be deemed to have been made under the Advances for Homes Acts of the State but without affecting any contract or rights as between the bank and the persona to whom the advances were made. 
It will be admitted that the delay in the final settlement was caused mainly by the action of the War Service Homes Commissioner, and not by the UnderTreasurer of South Australia. South Australia was effected adversely by the depression, and the proportion of unemployment was greater in South Australia than in any of the other States. Prior to that time drought conditions prevailed between 1926 and 1931 which made the position even more acute. In these circumstances the collection of rents, interest and rates on war service homes was exceedingly difficult. If it could be shown that the State Bank had collected moneys on behalf of the State in respect of advances for homes, and neglected the war services homes business there would be legitimate ground for complaint, but such was not the case. The war service homes business was transferred on the 1st January, 1935 and the latest date at which a comparison can be made is the 30th June, 1934. The comparable figures relating to advances for homes in South Australia and war service homes under the State Bank of South Australia at that date were - 

<graphic href="148332193512042_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

The percentages show that the record in respect of war service homes is better than in respect of advances for homes except as regards reverted properties. In view of the fact that the war service homes business started in 1921 while advances for homes started in 1910 it would naturally be expected that the depression would, more adversely affect the housing activities started in 1921 when property values were on a higher level than they were before the war. In regard to reverted properties, the following figures showing the position as- at the 30th June, 1934, are taken from the War Service Homes Commissioner's report for that year: - 

<graphic href="148332193512042_25_1.jpg"></graphic>

As regards reverted properties it would appear that the administration of the State Bank bears more than favorable comparison with the record of the War Service Homes Commission itself. The report also shows that the War Service Homes Commission has invested £430,948 in "land purchased for future requirements " and no similar item appears in connexion with the administration by the State Bank of war service homes in South Australia. The conference in November, 1933, provided for a new agreement for five years in respect of war service home in South Australia on certain conditions. Although the South Australian Ministry agreed thereto and asked the Commonwealth Government to do likewise, the Commonwealth later intimated that the agreement arrived at. in the conference would not be proceeded with - even though this had been agreed upon - but that instead, the Commonwealth would take over the war service homes business from the State. The minutes of the conference of April, 1934, set out the general lines upon which the transfer of the business would be effected. 
In regard to the general history of war service homes in South Australia, the following salient points are submitted : - 
Although the business commenced in 1021, the Commonwealth allowed South Australia no commission for conducting the business prior to the 1st January, 1024, although the State had paid the State Bank a commission for conducting the business and the State incurred a loss thereby. 
The commission paid to South Australia, from the 1st January, 1924, was 10s. per cent, on the outstanding advances. The commission paid to Western Australia and others was 15s. per cent, on outstanding advances. Had South Australia been accorded the same treatment as Western Australia, the additional commission payable to South Australia would have been approximately £90,000. 
South Austrlia bore a loss of £8,780 interest paid to the Commonwealth for the period from the 1st July, 1925, to the 13th June, 1929, in excess of the interest actually collected from the individuals purchasing war service homes. 
South Australia paid the War Service Homes Commissioner the sum of £7,145, being one-half of the profits from insurance of war service homes for the period from the 1st July, 1929, to the 31st December, 1934, inclusive. 
Certain other concessions were made in the final settlement which involved a refund to the 'Commonwealth of about £955 of the £7,000 esc  gratia  grant. At the final settlement the Commonwealth Auditor,  Mr. D.  E. Aikins,  expressed the opinion that the concessions then made by South Australia were of a liberal nature. 
I" submit that the tone of the report directed against South Australia is not reasonable and is quite uncalled for. We are prepared to admit our mistakes; but we resent, and do not admit a statement of this kind. I do not wish to embarrass the Government, but South Australia has had to suffer the effect of this report, which has been distributed throughout the Commonwealth. I have shown that the South Australian officials have endeavoured to administer the act fairly, and much on the same lines as is pro- posed in this bill. I support the second reading. 
The war service homes scheme was instituted when land was very expensive and homes were very scarce, and the intention was to afford ready facilities to men who were returning from the front to acquire homes. Many of the returned soldiers were newly married. To that extent the scheme was successful. To my knowledge it was administered quite sympathetically until the advent of the depression, when the unforeseen circumstances caused by the slump gave rise to certain complications in regard to the act. I wish to emphasize that the administration of the act generally has been very sympathetic, and, I think, has been carried out on common-sense lines. I forwarded a. copy of the bill to the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League in Western Australia with a request for any comments or criticism. In reply, I have received a telegram stating that the organization considers that the provisions of the measure are quite satisfactory. 
Naturally members of the Opposition support a measure which will relieve the anxiety of the widows of returned soldiers. In my few years of parliamentary experience I have received many requests for assistance from this unfortunate section of the community, and I have taken up the cudgels on their behalf. Undoubtedly, many widows have undergone acute mental suffering through the fear that they might lose their homes. Of course, they are not alone in that regard, because in. civilian life thousands of Australians are experiencing similar mental stress, as a result of the huge interest hill that they are called upon to meet. Instances have been pointed out to me in which more money has been paid in interest than off the principal. In some cases, the purchasers have paid off the total cost of the house in interest; but the dwelling still does not belong to them. The Government is evidently trying  to  alleviate the situation, but I foresee certain difficulties. With the creation of this trust fund account, will not the purchasers be required to pay two  interest bills? First, interest must be paid on the money borrowed from the trust account, and secondly, on money still owing to the commission. I fear that after the lapse of years a widow may be getting further into arrears, despite the instalments that, she has paid. I realize that the Government is faced with financial difficulties and, although it. might not be practicable at present, I favour a scheme for the assistance of these widows by the elimination of interest, thus making it possible for them to pay off the capital cost of the home. Interest is the burden and curse to-day, not only of the widows of returned soldiers, but also of thousands of Australian people who are paying off their homes. However, I do not desire to press that aspect of the matter. I recognize that under the present financial system, it is almost impossible at this juncture for the Government to give effect, to my proposals, but, if such a plan could be put into operation, it would relieve the plight of many people, far more effectively than will the present scheme, which may add to the burdens of the widows. 
I join with other honorable senators in congratulating the Government on having introduced this measure, which is framed to relieve the position of persons, especially the widows of returned soldiers, who are in very straitened circumstances and to whom the preserving of a roof over their heads is a most important consideration. The most favoured clause in this bill is that which deals with the formation of the trust fund referred to by  Senator Brown.  I think that this is an excellent way of meeting the situation of these unfortunate widows. I hope the Minister, when he replies to the second-reading debate, will give some information with regard to the agreement with the Government of Western Australia concerning the administration of war service homes in that State. I do not know when that agreement will expire, but, in several quarters, the statement has been repeated that the State government department makes a handsome profit annually out of the transaction. That is all very well for the State, but the question arises whether that profit might not be better directed to giving greater facilities to owners or prospective owners of war service homes in Western Australia. The administration of the War Service Homes Act in that State is admirably carried out, but it has been suggested that, as this legislation is purely a federal concern, it might be preferable for a federal department to control the administration. I do not agree with that assertion, but I should like to hear the Minister's opinion on the suggestion. I am very pleased to support the measure. 
 in reply  - One is highly gratified with the reception which this measure has had from honorable senators. Dealing with the point raised by  Senator Allan  MacDonald, I point out that this bill does not refer to arrangements made by the Minister administering war service homes or by the commission in respect of the conduct of affairs in any particular state ; nor does it lay down any directions with regard to the manner in which that business shall be conducted. I shall convey his remarks to the responsible Minister, but I know of no intention to change the present arrangements. 
In reply to  Senator Uppill,  I may state that I always regard as unfortunate criticism levelled by a State department against a department of the Commonwealth, or by an official of a Commonwealth department against a State department. I have come to the conclusion, after very' careful consideration of the matters raised by the War Service Homes Commissioner in his report, some of which were things that perhaps would have been better left unsaid, that the dispute is between two very efficient and excellent officers, both of whom are inclined to bite the official grass a little too short on occasions. I am confident that the Minister who has personally examined this matter will see that no dispute between State and Commonwealth officials shall occur in connexion with the administration of this department. 
The quarrel of  Senator Brown  is with the gentleman who created interest. All of us have a considerable grievance against him, but this is a factor from which I am afraid we have not yet devised *a sane means of escape. I believe that the originator of the system of interest payments was an Italian, and perhaps the Abyssinians will be able to throw some light on that matter before the present contest is finished. 
In regard to  Senator Hardy's  inquiry concerning the letting of reverted homes, the department informs me that in every instance where a soldier desires to take over a home and can comply with the conditions, he is given first preference; otherwise the department would be evading the very spirit of the "War Service Homes Act. It is impossible to provide a schedule to cover all cases such as those mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  It is true, as the honorable senator has said, that although there may be three or four children in the home and some of them earning money, the income of the widow may not be so much as it is generally supposed to be. I can, however, assure him that all relevant facts concerning the income are taken into consideration by the Commissioner. 
The Minister has stated that it is the intention of the commission to deal sympathetically with each case on its merits, so widows need have no fear on that score. As the intention of the hill is to give relief, the commission will not be wanting in generosity in the bestowal of the benefits of the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Reduction of instalments). 
This clause proposes the insertion of a new section 29aa, sub-section 1 of which enacts that where, in the opinion of the Minister, the payment by a widow or widowed mother of an Australian soldier or by the wife of an Australian soldier who is temporarily or permanently insane of the full amount of any instalments would cause hardship, the Minister may, from time to time, reduce the amount of such instalments. What is the position in respect of payments made by the wife of  a  man who has become insane and is a ward of the Master in Lunacy, who is thereby vested with control of the estate of the insane person? I have in mind the position of the wife of a returned soldier who became insane. She had been in receipt of an aggregate pension of £2 8s. a week, but when the husband was declared insane, he became a ward of the Master in Lunacy in New South Wales, and the wife, instead of receiving £2 8s., gets only £1  a  week. We should have a clear legal definition of the position of a wife in such circumstances. Would it be held that payments made by the wife would be in reduction of the amount due on the home, and increase the equity of the purchaser in the property? 
The proposed new section postulates that the widow or the wife, as the case may be, in the circumstances mentioned, has a legal relationship with the War Service Homes Commission; that, by some process of law, she obtains a right to the equity in the home; the equity does not necessarily and in all instances, pass to the Master in Lunacy. I understand that what happens in practice is that by some internal departmental arrangement the title and the agreement to purchase become vested in the wife who is thus enabled to continue the agreement. During the last three or four years several such cases have been brought under the notice of the department and the arrangement I have described is the best that could be devised in the circumstances. 
The point I wish to emphasize is that if a returned soldier is declared to be insane his equity in property automatically becomes part of his estate and passes under the control of the Master in Lunacy and, in some cases, as the Minister will know, being himself a legal practitioner, the attitude of the Master in Lunacy is strictly official, if not somewhat harsh to relatives of the insane person. Quite recently, as I have explained, over 50 per cent, of the pension income payable to the wife of a returned soldier, who was declared to be insane, was retained by the Master in Lunacy with the result that his wife and three children are now in a difficult position. 
A lengthy disquisition concerning the rights of the wife of an insane returned soldier would be out of place in the discussion on this clause, but I may, perhaps, reassure  Senator Hardy  by stating that the wife in circumstances mentioned by him, would be very foolish to continue the payments and would be so advised by the War Service Homes Commission. If I were asked, I would advise that if the wife pays the money to the commission she has a charge on the land or the home for the amount advanced. Itis a difficult position to explain.  Her  rights would have to be enforced in equity. It is a legal position against which it is doubtful whether we can legislate because we should be in conflict with the State law. All that the Commissioner can do is to cancel the contract and sell the home to the wife and so bring the case within the provisions of the relief scheme. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (War service homes trust account). 
 Under clause 3, sub-section 2 of proposed new section 29aa provides that no reduction of the amount of any instalment shall relieve any widow, widowed mother or wife from liability to pay the full amount of the purchase money or repay the full amount of the advance, as the case may be, together with interest. I had intended to discuss the position of widows under that clause but missed my opportunity and raise it  on  this clause. Section 49 of the act allows the Commissioner to compound with the purchaser. If the purchaser of a war service home becomes so hopelessly in arrears that, having regard to the decline of the value of. land and buildings, which must have happened if the home had been built in 1922 at the height of the building boom, his equity in the property has practically disappeared, and he may secure a rcassessment of his liability for the purpose of obtaining relief. Will that provision be applied under this bill? It is only reason able that the Minister should have this power. I have been informed of innumerable cases in which the arrears have increased so tremendously that a re-assessment of the amount owing has become necessary. 
Section 49 of the original act reads - 
The Commissioner may compound and agree with any person who has entered into any contract in pursuance of or under tho authority of this act, or against whom any action or suit is brought for any penalty contained in the contract, or in any bond or other security for the performance thereof, or for or on account of any breach of performance of the contract, bond or security for such sum of money or other consideration as tho Commissioner thinks proper. 
I do not think the provision has been curtailed by any subsequent amending bill. The section quoted gives to the Commissioner exceedingly wide powers which are exercised with discretion. There are cases, as  Senator Hardy  has pointed out, in respect of which it is advisable that the relationship of the Commissioner and the war service homes purchaser should be terminated. Where the proposal is a reasonable one, section 49 will continue to operate, notwithstanding the provisions of this bill which, as I said before, grants relief, and does not take away anything. 
The wider powers as to compounding, &amp;c, contained in section 49 are not affected. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 (War service homes relief trust account). 
 This clause provides for the establishment of a war . service homes relief trust account. I compliment the Minister on tho fact that the administration of this fund, and of the act generally, in Western Australia will be in the hands of the Workers Homes Board of that State. As that body operates in a State with a limited population it can do this work more efficiently and cheaply than could any federal body which might be set up. Having had  a  good deal of experience of war service homes in Western Australia, I can assure the Senate that the administration by the Workers Homes Board is entirely satisfactory. The Minister will remember that at one time the War Service Homes Commission set up its own office in Western Australia, but, later, handed over the administration to the State department with entirely satisfactory results. The more the Commonwealth Government uses existing State utilities, the better for the taxpayers of Australia. 
I do not wish  Senator Johnston  to be under any misapprehension with regard to this trust fund. Trust funds are not new, and although the administration of war service homes in Western Australia by a State department is satisfactory, the trust fund must necessarily be under the control of the Commonwealth Treasurer. The present practice of sending recommendations in relation to trust moneys, and of paying moneys to the Commonwealth Treasury, will be continued. 
 The bill empowers the commission to pay arrears of rates, and debit the amount against the total amount owing. Why should not the Government, or the corn mission, endeavour to compromise regarding rates? It may be argued that the local government legislation of a majority of the States does not sanction compromises. But in New South Wales, and possibly in other States also, amendments of the Local Government Act are contemplated. It is proposed to give to. local governing bodies the right to compound rates in some instances as, for example, certain institutions and in cases of hardship. I suggest that the Commonwealth Government should approach the State governments which are contemplating the introduction of amending local government, legislation with a view to authorizing the War Service Homes Commission to arrange a compromise with the local governing bodies in regard to rates. Generally, the owner of a small home who is in financial difficulties allows his rates to fall into arrears almost immediately, and as the local councils do not usually press for payment, the rates sometimes amount to almost as much as the mortgage held by the commission. If it is possible in cases of hardship to arrange for a compromise, it should be possible to do so in other cases also. 
Although I cannot hold out any great hope of the honorable senator's suggestion being agreed to, I shall transmit it to the Minister in charge of war service homes. One principle of municipal law is that rates are a first charge on the land. In South Australia an attempt was made to arrange a compromise along the lines suggested by the honorable senator, but it failed. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bill read a third time. 
 As this is purely a machinery measure the Opposition agrees to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bill read a third time. 
This bill also is a machinery measure. The Opposition agrees to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Application of act). 
By this clause the amendment effected by paragraph  b  of clause 2 shall be deemed to have commenced on the 4th April last. Why is this provision made retrospective? 
This clause is made retrospective because these collections were actually made in the belief that they were rightly made. However, subsequent inquiry raised a doubt as to whether the collections were rightly made, and it was thought best to regularize them by this measure. This retrospective provision will harm nobody because the collections have been made already, and the money has been applied for the purpose originally intended. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Opposition being in agreement with commercial measures of this nature will support this bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Appropriation of £325,000 for relief to primary producers). 
This amending measure is to afford relief to primary producers by the payment of a subsidy on superphosphate as provided in section 19 of the principal act. Section 20 of that act sets out the amount payable to each State and section 21 contains the conditions under which payment shall be made. It has been suggested to me that there is hardship in the conditions under which payment is to be made, in that before the 31st October primary producers have to submit a certificate setting out, the quantity of superphosphate used in the production of primary products other than wheat during the year ended on the 30th June. It is very difficult for  a  farmer to state exactly what quantity of his crop is likely to be cut for hay as that depends largely upon the quantity of hay he may require. The quantity also is governed by the density of the crop. I have a. letter from a farmer written on the 18th November, a portion of which reads - 
To participate in the subsidy, I should have applied for the subsidy on the superphosphate used on that portion of this year's crop to be cut for hay. As I have not' yet started hay cutting and cannot say how much I will cut until I have tried the crop to see what I can cut, it is impossible for me to apply for the subsidy. 
He then goes on to repeat the old story that the Farmer's Assistance Board has instructed him to cut as much hay as possible, and that he is therefore likely to lose on both hands. This farmer suggests . that the date should be extended to the 30th December. I am not asking that it be extended to such a late date, but it is reasonable to suggest that applications should be received up to the 30th November. Is it possible for anything to be done in that respect? 
An extension of the date would have to be advertised, necessitating an extension to the 15th December, which would mean that it would be almost' impossible to ascertain the amount to be appropriated. In the circumstances, the Government considers that it would he inadvisable to include  in  this bill any amendment which would affect the basis upon which the subsidy is paid. It does not exclude those cases which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  wishes to include, but the Government does not think that the date should be extended as suggested. 
It would be an advantage  to  extend the date to the 15th December, because there are many late districts in which hay-cutting has not yet been completed. In such districts, the producers will not be able to claim the subsidy. The date fixed is too early. I do not think that it would make any difference to  the  Government if the time were extended. 
.- A.n extension to the date suggested by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  and  Senator Badman  would be insufficient, because, in many districts, hay-cutting is not concluded until late in December. A farmer has to make a sworn declaration that he has used  a  certain Quantity of superphosphate and if he does not know the proportion of his crop to be cut for hay, he cannot make the necessary declaration. A producer should be permitted to make  a sworn  declaration covering the quantity which lie expects to cut and have the right to make a further declaration, if necessary, covering a larger proportion. 
Apart from the difficulties mentioned, there is a technical objection to an amendment on the lines suggested. The amount of the appropriation mentioned in the GovernorGeneral's message would be increased and another message would have to be obtained. This subject has been fully discussed before, and all I can say at this juncture is that I shall bring the suggestions of honorable senators under the notice of the Government. At this stage, no extension of time can be granted. 
By far the greater proportion of the hay crop is cut after the 31st October. Similar State acts provide for an extension of the time specified in the legislation. When the State Bank in South Australia was administering the legislation under which the wheat bounty was paid, the date was advertised, but, if necessary, the period was extended  by  one month and in that way all' applications were included. Under this legislation, it is practically impossible for primary producers to obtain the  benefit  to which they are entitled, because they do not know what proportion of their crop is to be cut for hay. 
In order to make my position quite clear and to record my views on this subject, I ask for your ruling,  Mr. Chairman,  as to whether a special appropriation would be required. To enable you to determine the  point,  I move - 
That at the end of clause 2 the following words be added:- - " and by adding at the end oi that section the following sub-section: - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 21 of the principal act, applications for assistance in respect of artificial manure used in the production of wheaten hay which were received by the Secretary of the Department of Commerce cm or before the 30th day of November, 1935, may be taken into account in calculating the amount which may be paid under this part to a State '." 
If the amendment involves an increase of the appropriation, it must be submitted in the form of a request. 
[4.58].- I do not think that there can be any doubt that the amendment moved by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  would increase the appropriation. The Senate has not the power to amend a money bill, but it can request the House of Representatives to do so. Obviously, if the period over which claims for the subsidy can be made is to be extended, the charge or burden on the people must be increased. Therefore, the suggested amendment should be in the form of a request. 
I agree with the opinion expressed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce).  Section 21 of the principal act prescribes  the conditions under which payments shall be made. May I point out that the long title of this measure is " a bill for an act to amend section 19 of the Financial Relief Act 1934-35."  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has moved an amendment which in a roundabout way seeks to amend section 21 of that act. For that reason, I consider his amendment is out of order. 
Any amendment may be made to any part of the bill, provided the same be relevant to the subject-matter of the bill. . . . 
The subject-matter of the bill is to amend section 19 of the Financial Relief Act, and, therefore, the committee has power to deal with that section only. I submit that the amendment is not in order. 
If any amendment shall have been made iu the bill, not coming within the original title, such title shall be amended, and a question put " That this be the title of the bill ", and the amendment thereof shall be specially reported to the Senate. 
I think that Standing Order contemplates the possibility of an amendment being moved that is not covered by the title. 
That Standing Order refers to a title in general terms. The title of the hill before the committee specifically relates to section 19 of the principal act. The amendment proposed by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  applies to section 21 of the principal act. I therefore, rule that the proposed amendment is out of order. 
.- If a farmer does not make application by the 30th October, in respect of all the superphosphate he has used, may he apply to have the balance included in the next year's allotment? If that is permissible, the difficulty is overcome. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment- 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Opposition will support this measure. Whatever may be said as to the manner or method of payment or as to the amount of such payment to the repatriated soldier, one fact is outstanding, and that is that Australia promised the soldier that his future and that of his dependants would be secured. While the Opposition agrees with the hill and proposes to support it, we desire to emphasize certain facts. The first is that the bill is very belated. This measure, to provide for increased payments to returned soldiers and for the further protection of their position, should have been brought in immediately the Government, found itself in possession of surpluses, enabling it to make grants to any section of the community. Although the reply to that contention will be " better late than never " I feel that one of our duties as Australian legislators in an Australian parliament is to tell the Government on every conceivable occasion that before it distributes what I have previously described as largesse to those sections of the community which, in our opinion, are not, entitled to receive it, because they can afford not to apply for it, it should make restitution, not only to returned soldiers, but also to those other -classes which suffered by reason of the special emergency legislation, the depression, and other difficulties which have been encountered in recent years. I repeat, for the sake of emphasis, that, instead of this being done, such persons have been overlooked. With an expanding revenue in 1932-33, the Government granted property owners relief to the amount of £500,000 - a concession which continues as the years go by. Wealthy land owners benefited by remissions totalling £700,000, and at the end of 1933, despite these concessions and the granting of assistance to wheat-farmers, which, in our opinion, was very proper, there was a surplus of £3,500,000. For the financial year 1933-34, the number of beneficiaries increased, and they received a very handsome measure of relief. These included life-insurance companies, shipping companies, companies of various types dealing in property, and persons who paid land and income tax, the remissions totalling £2,750,000. Of course other benefits also accrued to those sections of the community by reductions of the tariff and in other directions. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  in his budget speech for 1933-34, referring to the reduction of the pension of dependants of returned soldiers, admitted that it had pressed onerously in some cases. Hence £248,000 was granted as a partial restora-  ti on, hut it was not until the budget of 1934-35 that a full restoration was made. If honorable senators compare these meagre amounts with the sum of £10,000,000 a year involved in remissions of taxes to those sections of the community which I have termed the wealthy sections - or at least, the sections who are better off than many others - they will realize that what we have done for the repatriated soldier is nothing to boast about. It should never be forgotten - and this, I think, is a fitting  occasion  to emphasize it - that the possessions of the wealthy sections in this country were made secure to them by the sacrifices of Australian soldiers, many of whom laid down their lives, during the disastrous war years 1914-1918. 
We, on this side of the chamber represent the workers who produce all wealth.  Senator McLeay  speaks for the wealth-takers. I repeat that security for the wealthy sections in this community was made possible by the sacrifices of Australian soldiers, and I contend that before this Government remits the taxes of those who can pay, a full measure of justice should be done to our returned soldiers. 
There is another matter to which I desire to refer. It is one which so many people would rather gloss over or not emphasize sufficiently, but it is indi,cated in this bill in language so plain that he who runs may read. I allude to the awful consequences of the Great War. This morning whilst listening to the remarks of the Postmaster-General (Sena.tor A. J. McLachlan) when moving the second reading of the bill, I realized that there could be read into the measure much that was well worth emphasizing. Just imagine ! Already we have paid in war pensions £.130,000,000. This year our expenditure under this head will be £7,500,000: there are 1,600 in-patients and 17,000 out-patients receiving treatment in our hospitals, every one a victim of the disastrous war years. Last year 40,000 cases were treated and more than 146,000 out-patients attended departmental institutions. Then think of this awful  commentary  on the effects of the war : 
Up to the present time there has been manufactured in this country 10,750 artificial legs at a cost of £194,000; 1,090 artificial arms at a cost of £22,000 ; 132 wheeled chairs at a cost of £19,000; 2-8,000 pairs of surgical boots at a cost of £72,000; 77 stump socks at a cost of £12,000; 3,367 pairs of crutches at a cost of £67,000 and 75,000 surgical appliances at a cost of £104,000. 
I know that honorable senators and particularly those who served during the Great "War and therefore have a clear recollection of all its horrors, are fully informed of these grim facts. I cite them because I believe a wider knowledge of all that  war means will  make everyone of us even more determined than we are at the moment, if that be possible, to do everything that lies in our power, by way of legislation,  example,  and public utterances, to avoid a repetition of the horrors of those disastrous years. In the House of Representatives recently the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  admitted that 57,000 applications for pensions had been rejected. I suppose it would be quite safe to say that the majority of the applicants had applied over and over again without success. Because of these facts and having in mind the information given to the Senate by the Minister in charge of the bill, which provides for a liberalization and more sympathetic administration of the law relating to war pensions, the Opposition in this chamber will heartily support the measure. 
 I fully expected that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  would announce his cordial cooperation with the Government in the passage of the measure, and perhaps I was optimistic enough to believe that he might even congratulate the Government on its introduction or comment favorably on its liberal provisions. But I was amazed that, instead, in the earlier portion of his remarks he indicted the Government because it had not distributed to returned soldiers additional largesse from the surplus which he alleges it has been enjoying in recent years. The honorable gentleman also took advantage of the opportunity to indulge in political propoganda by referring to the Government's discriminatory - as he alleged - tactics in remitting taxes to certain sections of the people. Every one who studies this bill and thoroughly understands its implications will agree that it is the most generous legislation which has ever been introduced in this Senate. 
If that is the only serious criticism which the honorable gentleman can advance, I need only remind him that our pensions legislation has been steadily evolving since the termination of the war, and that the structure now being completed is the result of many years' experience. 
I do not say that this Government, of which I am a supporter, is entirely responsible for this class of legislation; but I do claim that the Government, realizing that, with the march of time, entirely new problems are being presented, has, by this bill, placed the coping stone on the war pensions structure of the Commonwealth, and I for one give honour where honour is due. The commitments of the Government this year in respect of war pensions, total £7,000,000, and our pensions legislation affects over 250,000 ex-soldiers. 
The Leader of the Opposition has emphasized that this legislation is the direct result of participation in a disastrous war. I fully agree with him, and I suggest that recognition of this fact should induce all sections of the community to spare no effort to make the lot of these men easier as the years roll by. I say this, because it is only now that our returned soldiers are really -feeling the full effect of their war services, the majority being between the ages of 40- and 50 years. This is a fact which we should not overlook. There is one aspect which I desire to stress, and it is that this legislation is not the result of pressure in any shape or form from an organized minority. The returned soldiers of this country have never at any stage allowed to obtrude into  party politics in their internal administration. They recognize no political class or party and have never attempted at any time to apply pressure on a government to introduce legislation in their particular interests. On this point it is interesting to note that history discloses that returned soldiers have not always been so punctilious in this regard. There have been occasions when, as organized minorities, soldiers who have taken part in wars have exerted pressure on governments of the clay. This will be seen from the following extract from an article in the  Encyclopaedia of Social Services: - 
In ancient Rome the breakdown of Latin agriculture as a result of the importation of grain from the provinces and the continuous wars of expansion resulted in the creation of a large class of disbanded, soldiers who at the time of the war were thrown into the landless proletariat of the city of Borne. As early as the time of Gracchus the unrest and clamour of this group, ready to give their political loyalty to any military adventurer, who promised them plunder from conquest, were a continuous threat to the established order. 
Even in those times, soldiers upon their return from war found it difficult to fit into the economic life of the community, and in despair organized themselves in order to extract from the government certain privileges to which they considered they were entitled. Any such action has been entirely foreign to the policy of returned soldiers throughout the Commonwealth, and that is deserving of general recognition. The position is, however, different in the United States of America. In that country, organized minorities are the rule and not the exception. I take the following extract from an article appearing in the  Encyclopaedia Britannica: - 
It is estimated, for example, that assuming no further liberalization of the World War Pensions Law. the peak of expenditures will be readied in 1058, two years before the British world war pensions will be totally extinguished. Although the number of sick and wounded in service was far smaller than that of any other large power, the expenditure on United States world war veterans is greater than those of any other belligerent nations. In the year 1931-32 the total expenditure of the United States on world war veterans wa3 greater than the combined total of France, Germany and the United Kingdom. 
It is known that the returned soldiers in America are ruthlessly using their organization for political purposes. The number of men of the armies of France, Germany and the United Kingdom who were disabled by wounds or sickness in the "World War totalled 8,124,579, the respective figures being 2,052,984, 4,202,028 and 1,869,567. The United States of America, whose soldiers are an organized minority, had 192,369 men disabled by wounds or sickness in that war. The significance of those figures is evident. In order to show what organized minorities can do, I shall refer to the total expenditure on behalf of the World War pensions for 1931-32. The expenditure by France amounted to 277,015,071 dollars. Germany expended 285,840,000 dollars, and the United Kingdom 240,260,724 dollars. The total expenditure by those three countries on behalf of disabled soldiers was . 803,115,795 dollars. Since only 192,369 of the men of the army of the United States of America suffered from wounds or sickness, it is interesting to note that in 1931-32 the expenditure on their behalf was 860,635,000 dollars- an amount which was greater than the combined totals of the three European countries which I have mentioned. Those figures indicate not . only what an organized minority can do, but also how a ruthless group can extract largesse from a government. The bill before the Senate is a recognition by the Commonwealth that pension laws must keep pace with the march of time, and I repeat that it has not been introduced because of any pressure from an organized minority. I do not say that the application of a reasonable amount of pressure is wrong; but I do pay a. tribute to the returned soldiers' organizations of Australia which, since the termination of the war, have avoided any political liaison, and have never attempted to hold the pistol to the head of any government. It is the duty of the government of any country to provide pensions for men disabled in its wars. As early as the reign of Queen Elizabeth, military captains complained that the maintenance and care of disabled soldiers " laid heavily upon them ". It is also interesting to note that the earliest instance of a central government taking action to provide pensions was the passing of a series of acts during the last decade of the reign of Queen Elizabeth. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  will be interested to know that during the reign of Charles II., the King announced his intention to erect a hospital for disabled soldiers and to endow it from the public revenue. Contributions were invited from the public, the King heading the list. But before long recourse had to be had to other means of financing the hospital, and finally it was kept going by deductions from the pay of the troops. We should be thankful that the legislation before us is on a moro generous foundation. 
Among the other provisions of the bill to which attention might be drawn, the most outstanding is that which enables a " burnt-out " soldier to receive a pension. It is, of course, a fact that it is much easier to apply for a pension than to receive one. Under the Repatriation Act, a man must be able to show that the disability from which he is suffering has really been incurred in war service, or, at least, that war service contributed to his condition. Following a purely casual examination, it may be easy to say that the infirmity from which a soldier is suffering is due to war service, particularly if he served abroad for three or four years, but it is a most difficult thing to prove. Were the Repatriation Commission too ready f,o assume that all the complaints from which ex-soldiers suffer were, due to their war service, the annual war pensions bill, instead of being £7,000,000, would be far beyond Australia's capacity to pay. What is the principle governing war pensions to-day? The bestdefinition that I have heard is that of  Sir George  Chrystal,  secretary of the British Minister for Pensions who said - 
Bc sure your man is entitled; be sure that his disability is service incurred; and then nothing you can do is too good for him. 
First, let us consider the admonition " Be sure your man is entitled ". What entitles a man to a war pension? It may be said that he is entitled to a war pension when his infirmity is due to his war service. It is not so easy, however, to prove a case before the Repatriation Commission. In cases of gunshot wounds, or wounds caused by high explosive shells, it is relatively easy to say that, the disability is due to war service. 
The Repatriation Commission readily recognizes such cases, but it is the border-line case which presents many difficulties. For instance, a returned soldier suffering from acute asthma may claim that his condition is due to war service. What procedure is adopted in his case? First, he is taken to a local doctor who is told that when the man enlisted he was 100 per cent, fit; and as he spent., say, four years in the trenches, it is only reasonable to assume that his acute asthma, which makes him no longer able to work, is the result of his war service. The medical man is asked for a certificate that the ex-soldier's ailment is due to war service. Should he hesitate, he is quickly told that while in the trenches the exsoldier was subjected to all sorts of exposure, such as being left for long periods in wet clothes, and that his asthma is the natural outcome of his war experience. Notwithstanding the apparent soundness of the argument, any medical practitioner will say that it is impossible, on such evidence, to give a definite certificate that the man's ailment is due to his war service. He must certify on material evidence alone. That difficulty arises not only with bronchial complaints, but also with organic troubles. But even if the medical man grants a certificate that the ex-soldier's ailment is due to war service, or that such service has contributed to his infirmity, there is still the necessity to convince the Repatriation Commission. The claimant is then brought before the commission which has access to his medical history while a member of the forces. It must be remembered that at the time of his enlistment every man was supposed to be 100 per cent, fit, and that there may be no mention of any ailment during the period of his war service. The average soldier was about twenty years of age, and man; men went through their service abroad without any record of medical trouble, having been lucky enough not- to enter a hospital. Others, although fit cases for hospital treatment, remained in the trenches from patriotic motives. Such men are immediately confronted with a clean medical sheet covering their war service, and they find it difficult to prove that their infirmity is due to war service. 
have in mind the case of a man who suffered from acute asthma and sought a pension. Those who interested themselves in his case .first secured a number of statutory declarations from men who had known him before his enlistment that he was perfectly healthy at the time. Indeed, he was described as the strongest man in the district. It is generally admitted that the medical examination at the time of enlistment was, to say the least, hasty. There were no blood tests, and nothing to show whether or not i man was organically sound. The battalion history of the man to whom I have referred showed that he had been tha victim of a gas attack, but as he had not been evacuated on the date of the attack his name was not entered in the records as a casualty. That man did everything possible to stay in the line, and, consequently, there was no record on his medical sheet that he had suffered in any way from the gas attack. Considerable difficulty was experienced in proving that his asthma was due to war service and accentuated by gas. Indeed, it was not until the matron of a. hospital in England forwarded a declaration that during the war she had seen him, and was of the opinion that he then suffered from a chest complaint, that his application for a pension was approved. 1 do not want honorable senators to think that I arn charging the Repatriation Commission with harsh treatment of applicants for pensions. I know of many instances to the contrary. Nevertheless, we must admit that there are many borderline cases in which men could not prove to the commission that their infirmity was due to war service. It may be said that this legislation covers border-line cases, because it is not any longer necessary for an ex-soldier to prove that his infirmity is due to war service, since he has to prove only that he served in a theatre of war. That may be; but difficulty still exists in that the amount of pension granted to a " burnt-out " soldier may differ greatly from what it would be if he could prove to the commission that his infirmity was due to war service. To-day, if a man is 100 per cent, incapacitated, he is entitled to a weekly rate of 42s. for himself, 18s. for his wife, and 6s. for each child. Under this  legis- lation.  if he cannot prove that his infirmity was due to war service, he will come under the "burnt-out" clauses; but he will not receive 42s. a week. He could still come under the " burnt-out " clauses, although totally incapacitated, but he would then get only 15s a week for himself, 15s. for his wife, and 2s. 6d. for each child. These figures show the difference between the rates of pension payable ordinarily, and those to be paid under the " burnt-out " clause to an applicant who can prove that he is totally incapacitated. It may he said that such a man is unfortunately a border-line case. I cannot see how this anomaly could be overcome, because I cannot conceive of any method of proving border-line cases. 
I propose now to deal with assessment of incapacity in respect of men suffering from chest complaints. If such a man is not able to follow his ordinary occupation, the assessment tribunal will assess his incapacity at about 60 per cent. If he can prove to the tribunal that his complaint is due to war service he will receive 25s. 3d. a week for himself, 10s. 9d. for his wife, and 3s. 7d. for each child, making his rate of pension approximately 40s. a week. Rut if he is a border-line case and cannot prove that his complaint is directly due to war service, he will have to take refuge under the " burnt-out " cla.uses. He will then receive 15s. a week for himself, 15s. for his wife, and 2s. 6d. for each child, thus suffering a disadvantage of 8s. a week. He will then come down to a 50 per cent, assessment, in which case, if his disability i3 recognized by the commission as being due to war service, he will receive a weekly rate of 21s. a week, 9s. for his wife, and 3s. for each child, making a total pension of 33s. a week. If such a man cannot prove his case, and I remind honorable senators that chest complaints are very difficult to prove, he will receive 33s. a week. Thus the " burnt-out " pension is equivalent to approximately a 50 per cent, rating, that is, if the applicant wins his case before the commission, and is able to prove that his injuries are due to war service. I point out these discrepancies without intending for one moment to move an amendment, but merely to show the discrepancy between applying to the  commission and becoming a recognized case, and exercising the alternative of taking refuge under the " burnt-out " clauses.  1  shall have further comment to make in committee regarding these clauses. For instance, a good deal is to be said with regard to the term " permanently unemployable ". A man who is " permanently unemployable " is entitled to receive a pension, but in this connexion one immediately asks, " What is the definition of ' permanently unemployable and how is a ' digger ' to prove to the satisfaction of the commission that he  i3  ' permanently unemployable ' ? "  1  could detail hundreds of cases that would come under this heading. For instance, there is the man who indulges to excess in alcoholic liquor. He is " permanently unemployable but is he to be entitled to a pension under the " burntout " clauses? It may be said that it is his own fault that he is " permanently unemployable ". When we remember that this country plucked boys of seventeen and eighteen years of age from all the steadying influences of life and threw them into the chaos of war, it is very debatable indeed whether this country is not liable for the sins those men commit to-day. I ask the Minister to elucidate this matter, and to tell me whether a man who is permanently unemployable owing to excessive indulgence in alcoholic liquor will be entitled to a pension under the " burnt-out " provisions of this measure. 
Generally speaking, I congratulate the Government on this legislation, which I consider is very fine and generous. I know that it is sincerely appreciated by every organization of returned soldiers throughout the Commonwealth, all of which believe that the Government, in introducing this measure, has done the right thing; they are paying tribute where tribute is due. Again, I say .that this measure has not 'been introduced as the result of organized pressure on the Government, but is simply a recognition on the part of the Government that the march of time calls for an evolution of pension provisions. It is to the credit of the Government that it has followed Canada's precedent in proposing what are known as " burnt-out " clauses with the object of helping border-line cases. 
.- I congratulate the Government upon having introduced this bill. Every request by returned soldiers' organizations has been met. Australia has no reason to be ashamed of the provision hitherto made for the care of its war veterans and dependants. When the Repatriation Act was passed in  1920  the effects of war strain on ex-service men could not be foreseen As time went on this strain began to undermine the constitution of many men. The depression years also contributed to that result. Now they are prematurely aged, subnormal, or " burnt-out ", an apt expression which was used in this connexion when a bill similar to this was before the Parliament of Canada in  1930.  Such men are no longer fit to stand in the front line of industrial life; they are only industrial camp followers. The benefit provided Wy this bill for this class of ex-soldier is termed a service pension, as distinct from a war pension, which is granted for a direct war injury or a diagnosable war disability. Obviously this service pension is intended for those men whose condition is attributed to the rigour of operations in a theatre of actual war. The new commission, after a searching survey of the soldier's record of service and medical history, should have no difficulty in deciding who are entitled to this pension. It is impossible to forecast correctly the number who will apply and be granted such a pension. I think the citizens of Australia will approve of any additional expenditure so long as the real front-line soldier benefits. Concessions forecast in this bill cover several other .classes of disabled soldiers. Since the second reading of this measure in the House of Representatives ex-soldier members of this Parliament, by deputation and personal representations, secured several important amendments which will considerably increase the original estimated expenditure of  £350,000  per annum. I venture to say that no more humane legislation has been introduced into this chamber for many years. On behalf of the ex-service men generally, I thank the Government and particularly the exMinister for Repatriation  (Mr. Hughes)  for the sympathy and generous assistance given to our less fortunate comrades. Every request made by soldiers' organizations has been met in this hill. 
I support the bill. I agree with my leader that it is somewhat belated and I agree with  Senator Brand  when he says that returned soldiers' organizations made representations to the Government with the result that this measure was introduced.  Senator Hardy,  of course, says that this measure was not introduced as the result of any such pressure. 
I shall make my position clear on this matter. It is perfectly right and just that men should approach any authority and bring pressure to bear on it in order that justice should be done to them. In this case, and rightly so, pressure has been brought to bear upon the Government by returned soldiers. I think  Senator Hardy  was rather stretching the matter when he tried to make us believe that the Government introduced this measure simply out of the goodness of its heart; it has been introduced as the result of pressure which, for many years, has been brought to bear upon the Government by those interested in the welfare of the soldiers. Past governments should have enacted these provisions long ago. Why  Senator Hardy  should speak at length in order to make it appear that no effort was made by the returned soldiers to influence the Government to introduce this legislation I do not know. Men, whether they be returned soldiers or otherwise, if they think legislation should be enacted for the benefit of the community, have a right to bring pressure to bear upon the Government to achieve what they desire. In fact, most governments would not act unless constant pressure drove it to action. Most conservative governments are lethargic; they act when they are obliged to and they bring in legislation only when they are forced to do so. My experience of Tory governments particularly is that they meet a situation in an expedient way in order to satisfy certain pressure. This has been the case in respect of many classes of legislation designed to assist the soldiers of industry, the producers and the farmers. Time and time again, instead of getting down to basic causes in order to deal with certain problems, this Government has acted in an expedient way in order to meet pressure brought to bear upon it by people outside. I am convinced that before long governments will be compelled to show greater consideration to our industrial soldiers, many of whom are unemployable because they are physically or mentally incapable of being employed at a remunerative occupation. It is only right that the Government should come to the rescue of these men as well as to the aid of those " burnt-out " soldiers who have served their country on the battlefield. Unemployable men come to me seeking assistance because private enterprise, with which they have been associated in their better days, cannot show a profit on the service they are able to render. I remember a man climbing the steps to the federal members' room in Brisbane who had to stop six times before he reached the top. He said, "I have been to the Pensions Department and cannot receive any help. Don't you think it only right that I should get a pension " ? The poor individual could not walk more than ten steps without coughing and spitting, yet an officer of the department asked him if he could not perform some light work while sitting on his verandah. He replied, " What kind of work can I do?" The officer said, " You are not totally and permanently incapacitated; I do not know what kind of work you can do". I trust that it will not be long before these men receive justice. Before the outbreak of the Great War there were many in Australia who said that nothing would be too good for those who offered their services. Although thousands of men made the supreme sacrifice, their dependants have not yet been able to receive the justice to which they are entitled. This belated act of justice will be supported by honorable senators in Opposition, but we trust that it will not be long before those maimed members of the industrial army will be served in the same way as are those who fought for this country. 
I do not propose to deal with claims or cases, because this measure is of such general excellence that it does not need many words of mine to commend it to honorable senators. The bill when enacted means that this Parliament, on behalf of and in the name of the people of Australia, will have made a further attempt to mitigate the natural effects of service in the Great War. In comparison with other countries, Australia has been generous to its sailors and soldiers who fought for it, and I know that that generosity is appreciated. There is, of course, a limit to the resources of this country. The other day I asked for some figures which will be very illuminating, showing the amount expended upon repatriation  per capita  of enlistments during the last nineteen or twenty years. Unfortunately, the figures have not yet been made available. The principal point I wish to make is that the benefits proposed should he confined to those whose condition is traceable to their war service, and also to the relatives of those who have died as a result of such incapacity. Most ex-service men are sincerely interested in the fate of their one-time comrades. The saddest moments experienced by surviving ex-service men are those in which memory returns, and they think of their comrades who did not survive battle. There is a feeling of great personal loss and a sense of national loss. There is no doubt that during the Great War the best of Australia's young men gave up their lives for their country, and the nation is the poorer in consequence. Despite the dreadfulness of the last war it was undoubtedly the dawn of a great understanding. Despite differences of creed, education and so-called differences of class, it illustrated worth, bred toleration, and secured co-operation in achieving the objective. Nearly all of those who enlisted in Australia were Australians in the fullest sense of the word, and, I say without hestitation that could those who died be restored to life, we would be further along the road of progress than we are to-day. I say that not merely for sentimental purposes, but to suggest a reason why the benefits which the nation can afford to give, and which are too few, should be .bestowed only in deserving quarters. By all means let us avoid the false generosity and scandal associated with the system of one of our war allies. May I make that point plain? There were, men in Australia who enlisted and who did not serve. There were also men who were allowed to enlist and for whom effective service was barred from the outset. To that extent the medical services at this end were responsible, and in consequence there has been a heavy charge upon the nation ever since. Assistance should be reserved for the deserving and needy. The cumulative physical after effects of the last war are not yet fully understood. Some honorable senators are able to detect their presence and progress. For that reason I am glad that attention is being paid to the burnt-out or unemployable cases. The granting of a pension at 60 years of age is commendable and I heartily endorse the proposal. Nothing could make a greater claim upon our sympathies than the sight of a man with whom we were once proud to serve, growing prematurely old and going down hill rapidly. The provision made m the bill for such cases will afford great satisfaction, not only to the men affected, but also to their comrades who are still fit. I have mentioned the generosity of the terms of this bill, but I think that the Government has had brought before it other types of cases equally deserving, if not needing urgent consideration. Sooner or later rightful pressure will be applied for a recognition of their claims, and I ask that an investigation into the ways and means of assisting them should commence at once, and the way be prepared for future pronouncements. Some mention has been made of the representations made by the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia. I assure some honorable senators that that body is non-partisan in politics. It was formed to afford help to those who needed it, and to continue to render to the nation service equivalent to that which its members voluntarily rendered during the Great War. So far as I know that organization preserves that attitude, and it should be  regarded as free from party political prejudice. It is actuated only. by the best of motives, and its efforts on behalf of ex-service men should be appreciated by all honorable senators. Eor these reasons it is entitled to have its proposals received and treated with every respect. I support the bill. 
Having had considerable experience with ex-service men seeking assistance, I am pleased to find that the Government has introduced this measure which will afford considerable relief and remove many anomalies. If, as has been stated, 200,000 of the 600,000 men who volunteered for service overseas were rejected by the medical authorities it would appear that the examination was fairly severe. In dealing with cases in which there is any doubt as to whether disability is due to war service, I have always felt that the onus should be upon the Government to prove that the condition was not due to war service. It is almost impossible to determine whether the condition of some men is due to war service or whether they are malingerers. One man who came to me had been refused a war pension because at times his condition is normal though on occasions he suffers severely from shock. "When such men have approached me I have suggested that they would probably obtain more satisfaction or better treatment if they interviewed a supporter of the Government. 

 Sitting suspended from G.15 to S p.m. 

The treatment of returned soldiers is a matter which cannot be mixed up with our political feelings. To a great extent that principle has been appreciated by all parties, and I believe that honorablesenators, when approached by returned soldiers, who have considered that their claims had not been satisfactorily adjusted, have had considerable satisfaction in making every effort to render them genuine assistance. Eor my own part, I always derived the greatest pleasure from interviewing officers of the Repatriation Department on behalf of a returned soldier or his widow, and I have received every courtesy from the officials. Unquestionably, they extend to the returned soldiers the utmost con sideration that the law permits. I do not desire to labour this subject, because it is one on which I am in agreement with the Government. I believe, however, that just as social progress is making lighter the struggle for existence both in Australia and in other countries of the world, so the returned soldiers will be treated more and more considerately, and their plight will be further alleviated as time passes. Experience has already shown that, with the passing of the years, they are enjoying greater advantages than hitherto, and I think that this tendency will continue in the future. Honorable senators will join with me when I express the hope that it may be so. I accord this measure my hearty support, and trust that when the finances of the country enable it to give greater concessions, the returned soldiers will receive better treatment. 
.  -  in reply  - I can only express gratification on the part of the Government at the reception accorded to this bill by honorable senators of all political parties. Various subjects have been referred to which can be more appropriately discussed in committee. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  said that this measure is belated. It is all very well to talk about the improved position of the Commonwealth, but we still have a financial skeleton in the cupboard. While this is present, we must proceed warily, lest through reckless generosity the financial equilibrium be disturbed and those who are now receiving the bounty of the Australian people be later placed in a less fortunate position. Prudence is absolutely essential, not only in the interests of the community as a whole, but particularly in the interests of the classes of persons whom the Government is endeavouring to assist. It would, indeed, be painful if anything should occur in the economic structure of Australia which would necessitate any reduction or whittling away of the privileges which this legislation confers on returned soldiers, and which have been so justly earned by them. The bill which has been so well received by the Senate has had the consideration of the Government for a considerable time, especially during the last few weeks in the light of the representations to which  Senator Brand  referred, and the concessions which it makes represent the utmost limit to which the Government is prepared to go. This is, in fact, the last word that the Government is able to say on this matter, and I ask honorable senators to accept the bill in thai spirit. I endorse the statement made by  Senator Brand  that the cost may be even greater than that which I estimated in my explanatory speech this morning. The matters raised by  Senator Hardy  can be best dealt with in committee, but I agree with the honorable senator that  the information which has been placed before this chamber, discloses the terrible toll that the Great War is taking of the manhood of the world. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Definitions). 
I draw the attention of the Minister to paragraph  a  which reads - 
From the results of  an  occurrence happening during the period during which he was a member  of  the forces. 
Does that provision nullify the original *l misconduct " section under the heading of "incapacity" in the original act? 
In my opinion, the interpretation that the commission may place on the words " permanently unemployable " is the axis on which this legislation will revolve. I raise this matter at this stage, because we shall have a further opportunity .to discuss it on a later clause, and in the meantime we shall have on opportunity to consider the Minister's reply, and perhaps be able to offer further observations on the interpretation of "permanently unemployable". Tt will be realized that if a returned soldier desires to secure a pension on the ground that he is permanently unemployable, the question that will naturally arise is " permanently unemployable at what"? If he is unable to obtain employment, will he be unemployable, and will that be the fault of the returned soldier? Will it be due to his character and make-up, war service, or the neglect of the Government? There are returned soldiers who can prove that they are permanently unemployable because it is impossible for them, in view of their depleted reserves, to engage io the competition for work. Let us consider the instance of a man who is indulging in alcoholic excesses, which would undoubtedly make him permanently unemployable;- he would not be able to hold a. responsible position. Would the commis]son regard that man as ' permanently unemployable? Although it may be argued that his condition is due to his own conduct, we have to look for the causes of the lack of stability and balance in his character. We must consider that when this man was taken as a youth of eighteen years of age and thrown into the chaos of war, he was deprived of all the steadying influences that build up character. If a skilled advocate were aware of such facts, and knew them to be correct, he could propound an excellent moral case to the commission on behalf of such a claimant. Therefore, the whole of this bill depends upon the interpretation of the words " permanently unemployable ". I submit that a very delicate matter is raised in this regard. A man must be prepared to sink his pride in order to obtain a pension under this measure. He must confess his inability any longer to pull his weight in the industrial community, and declare that he has no alternative to throwing himself upon the resources of the country. Let us now consider the case of a neurotic man, or one who on account of war experiences has no stability in commercial life. Who shall decide that he is permanently unemployable? If such a man stepped from the street into the consulting room of a medical practitioner, would the doctor be in a position to judge? Would the doctor know enough of his actions and habits to certify that he is permanently unemployable? T could speak on 101 aspects of this provision. The Minister might reply that the interpretation of " permanently unemployable " will be left  to the  discretion of the commission. 
The more principles that the Minister can be prevailed upon to enunciate in order to serve as a guide to the commission the better it will be. When the claims of applicants have to be argued before the commission, one must be able to enunciate principles, but whether the commission will accept them is debatable. The duty of the Minister is to enunciate what he thinks will be the principle governing the interpretation of this definition. 
I ask  Senator Hardy  to consider this fact: If the alcoholism to which he has referred were engendered by war experiences, treatment and a pension would be given to the sufferer. But if the alcoholism were merely  a  bad habit which had been contracted by the man through his own faults, he would not be entitled to receive a pension. The definition of " permanently unemployable " is, I think, self-explanatory. I direct the honorable senator's attention to the language used -  "permanently unemployable" means permanently incapable, by reason of physical or mental disablement of being employed in a remunerative occupation. 
That definition, is very plain.  An  application is first made  to  the State board, and is then forwarded to the commission. The personnel of that body and its grasp of the principles underlying this measure must be the determining factors. This definition is employed in similar legislation in New Zealand, and also, I understand, in Canada and Great Britain. There is no lack of authority for the guidance of the commission, and I can assure honorable senators that the act will be administered with sympathy and common sense. 
May we take it that the scale of pensions provided is intended to recompense a man for his inability to secure " remunerative " occupation ? In other words, may we assume that, if a man is in receipt of a fortnightly wage of 36s., he will be deemed to be employed in a " remunerative " occupation, or is it to be understood that a man is not in a " remunerative " occupation unless he is in receipt of the basic wage? 
I should like some explanation of the definition " served in a theatre of war." We are told that it means "served at sea, in the field, or in the air, in naval, military or air operations against the enemy in an area, or on an aircraft or ship of war, at a time when danger from hostile forces of the enemy was incurred, in that area or on that aircraft or ship of war by the person  so  serving." What is the reason for any reference to " hostile " forces of the enemy ? 
The term, " served in a. theatre of war," is not easy of definition. I have a very clear recollection of the difficulty of establishing definitions, because on one occasion I spent about  a  fortnight in endeavouring to induce a court to define when a man was engaged in active or military services within the meaning of the Defence Act of South Australia. All I can say is that the term " served in a theatre of war " received the most careful consideration, and I think the draftsmen have hit upon a very satisfactory definition. 
I am afraid that the honorable senator is endeavouring to split hairs. " Hostile forces " certainly means forces that are engaged in active hostilities. I understand that the definition is modelled, to a large extent, on that in the Canadian act. 
I share  Senator Hardy's  doubts about the meaning of the words "permanently unemployable," especially when linked with the words " remunerative occupation." Much will depend  upon  the view taken by the authorities responsible for the administration of the act. Applications for the invalid pension are refused by the Commissioner if  the  applicant is only partially incapacitated, the department taking the view that a person able to do light work, and earn 15s. or £1 a week, is not incapacitated within the meaning of the act, and therefore is not eligible for a pension. The meaning of the words " permanently unemployable " is not so clear as I would like it to be, and having advocated the claims of applicants for invalid pensions, I fear that injustice may be done to returned soldier applicants unless we can agree upon a more satisfactory definition of the term. 
-When this provision was under discussion in the House of Representatives, the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey),  who was in charge of the bill, gave an assurance that each case would be dealt with on its merits, due regard being paid to the applicant's previous occupation and general qualifications. He also gave an assurance that the commission would administer the provisions for service pensions with both sympathy and common sense. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Cancellation of pension by board). 
 The clause inserts a new section, 29a, which reads - 
Whore, prior to the commencement of this section, a board has purported to cancel a pension in circumstances in which the commission is, under section  20  of this act, authorized to cancel a pension, the pension shall be deemed to be, and at all times from and after the date of the purported cancellation, to have been, cancelled by the commission under that section.  1 should like to know the precise meaning of the word "purported". Section 29 enacts - 
Where any assessment or determination in relation to the pension payable to a member of the forces under this part is required to be reviewed, and the member refuses or fails to attend at the time and place fixed by the commission or a board for the review, or by his default renders it impossible to review the pension, the commission may cancel the pension, and any pensions payable to the dependants of the member shall not be continued for more than twelve months from the date fixed for the review. 
Are we to understand that this proposed new section is intended to correct an anomaly in the act under which it is possible, owing to a mistake in the notification, for a returned soldier to be deprived of his rights? I wish to know also to what extent the provisions of this bill will be retrospective. Will they go back to 1922, or to the date of the last, amendment of the principal act, 1932? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 10 (Suspension of pension during imprisonment). 
 Can the Minister state if at any time the provisions of section 30 of the principal act had been availed of? That section provides for the suspension of a pension in the event of the pensioner being sentenced to a term of imprisonment. Under this bill there is provision for the grant of pension to returned soldiers who, owing to physical or mental disablement, are permanently unemployable. The fact that a man may be 80 per cent, a harmless member of the community and 20 per cent, a menace, may result in his being committed to gaol ; but, under this bill, imprisonment will not disentitle him to a pension. I find it difficult to reconcile the provisions of this clause with section 30 of the principal act. I shall be glad of some information on this point from the Minister. 
I am informed that a pension is not paid during the confinement to prison of a pensioner, but that it is paid to his dependants. Section 30 is quite clear. It enacts that if a pensioner is convicted of an offence and is sentenced to a  term  of imprisonment, the commission may suspend his pension during the term of imprisonment or forfeit any instalments. If there are dependants, the pension may be paid to  them. 
In that event, no pension is payable during the term of imprisonment. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 11 to 17 agreed to. 
Clause 18 (Pensions to dependants of deceased blinded soldiers). 
Paragraph (ii) of proposed new section 39a refers to a member of the forces who, immediately prior to his death - 
. was in receipt of an amount in respect of a disability described in any of the first eight items in the first column of the fifth schedule to this act . . . 
I ask the Minister to agree to alter that to the first ten items, instead of the first eight items, in the first column of the fifth schedule. The first eight items include double amputations below the knee, but not cases in which one arm or one leg has been amputated and one eye destroyed. The proposed new section differentiates between the loss of an eye and the loss of a leg, whereas, hitherto, an eye has been treated as a limb. The last available report of the RepatriationCommission shows that there are 145 ex-soldiers who come under the first ten items of schedule five of this act, and as the number of double-amputees mentioned in the report is 133, it will be seen that the total number of men affected by my proposal would be twelve. I ask the Minister to give this matter favorable consideration. 
This matter has had the most careful consideration of the Government which, while recognizing that a man who has lost an arm or a leg and also an eye suffers a serious disability, has decided that his plight is not so serious as that of a man whose two legs have been amputated below the knee. The cases referred to by the honorable senator are sad indeed, hut a line must be drawn somewhere. On the advice of the departmental officers, following on examination of the statistics, the Government has decided to provide only for cases covered by the first eight items in the first column of the fifth schedule to the principal act. The honorable senator has suggested that only twelve men would be affected, but the department cannot give an assurance that that is so. I shall bring the honorable senator's representations before the Minister, but, at this stage, I cannot agree to depart from the decision already arrived at by the Government. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 19 to 21 agreed to. 
Clause 22 (Effect of decision of Assessment Appeal Tribunals). 
At present, a soldier whose disability has been assessed may have to appear again before a tribunal after six months to have his case reviewed. In the case of men living in the country, that might involve considerable travelling and the loss of both time and money. It shouldnot be necessary in every instance for a review to take place every six months. I understand that it was the intention of the Government to make the period three years in certain cases. I should like to know whether the commission will have the power to postpone reassessment up to three years in special cases. 
This clause seeks to repeal section 45q of the principal act and to substitute other provisions for it. The existing law provides that the decision of the Assessment Repeal Tribunal shall be binding for six months only, but with a view to reducing the number of appeals, the Government has decided to extend the period to not exceeding three years, as specified by the tribunal when giving its decision. At the same time, sub-section 2 of proposed section 45q gives to the appellant the right to approach the Assessment Appeal Tribunal if, during the currency of its decision, the commission decides that his condition has not retrogressed. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 23 agreed to. 
Clause 24 - 
After Division 4 of Part III. of the principal act, the following division and sections are inserted in Part III.:- - 

 Division 5. -  Service Pensions.  45ad. Subject to this act the commission or a board may grant a service pension not exceeding thirty-six shillings per Fortnight to a member of the forces who served in a theatre of war, and who - 
in the case of a man - has reached the age of 60 years; 
) in the case of a woman - has reached the age of 55 years; 
Is there any provision to safeguard the widow of a soldier who died before the passing of this act? Will she  be able to obtain the benefits provided by this clause? 
Then she is doubly unfortunate in that she has lost her husband and also the advantages which this act confers. 
I desire to supplement in a few words the statement that has just been made regarding the cases of widows of returned men who have died from pulmonary tuberculosis. Several instances of this kind have come under my notice. Some of these unfortunate men have died in sanitoria and during the whole period of their illness have not been able to receive any help from the Repatriation Department because of their inability to produce proof that their illness was due to war service. In some cases, this inability was due to the fact that men who may have been able to give testimony that would have been helpful to the sufferer had predeceased him. I regret that some provision has not been made in the bill to assist the widows of tubercular soldiers. Many of them have children to support. I trust that the Government will give this matter further consideration with a view to making provision for such cases later on. 
[8.45 J . - I assure the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator Payne  that the most careful consideration has been given to this matter, and, as I told honorable senators earlier, the Government has gone so far as it possibly can to finance this bill. This matter has been debated again and again, in and out of Cabinet,' between various Ministers appointed to consider it. It has been submitted to officers of the department concerned and examined in all its aspects, and while in a case of this kind one might be inclined to let the heart run away with the head, I can only repeat that the Government can go no further than the terms of the bill itself. 
Section 4 of the principal act defines an army sister as an Australian soldier within the meaning of the act. That definition is perfectly clear, but I point out that it is likely to upset minis terial calculations in respect of other portions of this measure. Suppose that an army sister, as so defined, applies, let us say, for a "burnt-out" pension; if she is unmarried, she will be entitled as an unmarried member of the forces to a pension of 36s. a fortnight; if she is married, apparently, she will be entitled to a pension of 30s. a fortnight as prescribed for a married member of the forces. As wives of members of the forces are also defined will an army sister, defined as a soldier within the meaning of the act, who marries another soldier, receive a pension for herself as a married member of the force, and an additional pension as the wife of a member of the forces? 

 Senator A. J. McLACHLAN (South Australia - Postmaster-General) [8.48 ~ . - The point raised by the honorable senator has received the consideration of the commission and also of the War Service Homes Commissioner. A returned nurse is a member of the forces, and as such has rights of her own which are not affected by marriage. Even though married it is possible for her to obtain a service pension, and her children may also be eligible. Naturally, the income and property provisions will apply, and, of course, a service pension will not be payable on account of the nurse's husband. If the husband is a member of the forces he has rights as such. 
.- I am sure that honorable senators accept the assurance given by the Minister that the Cabinet has fully considered the extent of its financial commitments arising out of this bill, and that it is impossible for it to undertake further financial liability in respect of this measure. How ever, I would like an assurance from the Minister that when the financial liabilities to which the Government commits itself under this bill have been revealed, say. towards the end of next session, he will be prepared to receive any representations for the granting of a pension to widows of unpensioned tubercular soldiers. I single out these women for special treatment, because the tubercular sufferers are in a category altogether different from any other disabled soldiers. If representatives from every soldiers  organization in Australia assembledhere and were offered £10,000 for distribution among their members, I am sure that every one of those representatives would immediately agree that the tubercular sufferers should receive first preference. The widows of these men have nursed their husbands for many years with the result that their health too has been impaired; many of them have contracted the disease. Furthermore, from their slender savings they have had to purchase special foods for their suffering husbands. Unpensioned tubercular soldiers do not receive one penny's worth of treatment in any repatriation hospital; some people do not seem to realize that fact. Actually there is very little difference between the disabilities suffered by the pensioned and the non-pensioned tubercular soldier. The former often secures his pension simply because something in his war service record, sways the decision in his favour; often he gets the pension merely by chance, whereas on the other hand the unpensioned tubercular sufferer may very often be in a worse plight than the pensioned soldier. From inquiries I have made, I find that, of the estimated 1,100 widows whose unpensioned tubercular husbands have died since the armistice, the number of claimants is likely to be less than 400, involving an annual expenditure of about £17,000. This would be a gradually diminishing liability. Some of the widows have married again, others are old-age pensioners, many have private means, and others are being supported by their children. I have interviewed the Minister and other members of the Ministry on this matter, and all of them have told me that the Government has gone so far as it possibly can in financial commitments under this measure. I make this appeal in the hope that towards the end of next session when the actual financial obligations, arising under this bill, have been revealed, the Government will be prepared to receive representations on behalf of this class of widows. 
While accepting the Minister's explanation that the Government cannot commit itself to further financial liability under this measure, I still claim that something should be done for the widows of soldiers who already have died from pulmonary tuberculosis. I therefore move - 
That at the end of proposed new section  45 ad  the following paragraph be added: - 
in the case of a widow of a deceased member whose death was due to pulmonary tuberculosis. 
The amount involved in meeting these claims would not be so serious that this great and rich country could not afford to pay it. While we are making the splendid gesture, which this bill certainly represents, we could easily make a complete job of it and do as I suggest. As I indicated by interjection it seems very hard that this class of widow is not to be paid a pension under this measure. I can see no reason why the Government should not accept my amendment. I feel sure that it has the sympathy of all honorable senators. 
Honorable senators know that the Government has every sympathy with the class of widows to whom the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has referred, but it has to remember that it owes a duty and responsibility to the returned soldiers in the passage of this measure. Already it has gone far beyond the financial liabilities that were contemplated when the measure was first considered by Cabinet. When it was first proposed to establish the new scheme of pensions set out in this measure the whole field of pensions was surveyed, and the Cabinet had the most complete statistics bearing on the matter placed before it. Even so far back as a year ago Cabinet gave consideration to the various classes of pensioners whom it was sought to assist, and at that time consideration was given to the class of widows mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition, but regretfully the Government came to the conclusion that this class would have to be excluded from the provisions of this measure. Additional claims will alwaysarise where cases of hardship are being considered. For instance, I ask honorable senators to think of those soldiers who passed away without having enjoyed the benefit of any assistance of this character. Now that we are endeavouring to do something for their comrades who have survived, the cry is raised that the Government should extend the benefits in this direction and that. "We cannot wisely proceed on such a basis, and at the same time achieve a balanced budget. More recently the matter was re-considered and even during the last few days a series of Cabinet meetings devoted considerable time to the examination of proposals of the nature now submitted by the' leader of the Opposition. The Government is sympathetic to such proposals as I believe all honorable senators are, but I point out that in this measure the Government has given an earnest of its sympathy for the soldier, and it asks honorable senators to stand by what it has done. Let me briefly review the provisions of this bill. The Government seeks to give a pension at 55 years of age to returned nurses and at 60 years of age to returned soldiers, provided certain income and property limits are not exceeded, and provided also that the recipient served in a theatre of war. Irrespective of age, it is hoped to provide a service pension for former members of the Australian Imperial Forces, who served in a theatre of war, and who are permanently unemployable and whose property and income are less than the amounts prescribed. For the sufferer from pulmonary tuberculosis whose ailment has not been accepted as due to war service, the bill provides a service pension at any age, whether he served in a ' theatre of war or not, and whether he is permanently unemployable  or not. It intends to give to him an invalid pension in addition to a service pension, and also free medical treatment in repatriation institutions. The bill removes the time limit concerning material aggravation cases and gives the right of appeal to a War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal or to a War Pensions Assessment Appeal Tribunal. It is intended to accept as due to war service the death from any causes whatsoever of those who suffered blindness, or total and permanent incapacity under the second schedule of the act, and those who suffer warcaused double amputations, and to give their dependants increased war pension and other benefits. Commuted pensions are to be restored, and some effort has been made to alleviate the conditions of those whose advancing years make life more difficult. There are smaller benefits also, but from what I have said, honorable senators will agree that the Government has made a genuine effort to do as much as its financial resources will permit. 
Turning now to the particular matter before the committee, I may state that the Government surveyed the situation. from every angle and regretfully decided that the provisions of the bill could nor. he further extended. When the proposition was first submitted, a survey of the national finances indicated that a. certain sum of money could be provided. On several occasions subsequently, that sum has been increased and with the addition of certain clauses to the bill, the expenditure will far exceed the amount which was originally anticipated. The Government has now reached a limit beyond which it cannot go. During the earnest and sympathetic discussions on this subject, members of the Government found it impossible to discriminate in their own minds between the widow of a man who died from pulmonary tuberculosis and the widow of a man who died from any other cause. To admit one class would inevitably create demands for other admissions and raise false hopes for benefits which certainly could not be conferred. The bill is a step forward in social legislation. The consequences will be far-reaching and the expenditure may, probably will, exceed calculations. A big departure has been made from the generally accepted principles of war pensioning and any additional departures cannot be countenanced. I shall select one complicating feature amongst many others to illustrate the difficulty in which the Government would find itself if the amendment were accepted. A returned soldier who, through war service, suffers incapacity at equivalent to 75 per cent., dies from causes entirely dissociated from his war service.  His  widow, provided the marriage occurred before the- 1st October, 1931, would be eligible tocontinue receiving the pension she was drawing at the time of her husband's death, i.e. 13s. 6d. a week. It will thus be seen that if a service pension is made available to the widow of a man who was not suffering at all as a result of war service she would be placed in a relatively better position than the widow of a man whose earning capacity and health had been undermined seriously by war service. Those whose husbands die after having been granted a service pension, present a responsibility which the Government is prepared to accept. in doing so it is acting more liberally than does Canada or New Zealand, where the maximum period of continuance is two years. It is impossible to include every class. The Government, in its selection, has endeavoured to confer benefits where they are most deserved and at the same time retain equitable relationship between the classes. I regret that the circumstances are such that the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
I support the request of  Senator Brand  that so soon as the finances permit the Government will give immediate consideration to certain tubercular claimants who deserve the most sympathetic consideration. It is admitted that extensive concessions have been conferred upon ex-service men and their dependants and, generally speaking, I believe that the organizations representing different sections are satisfied with the manner in which the Government has responded to their representations. Tubercular patients, however, are in a totally different category from all others as the disease is the most elusive known to medical science. It is difficult to prove that those suffering from tuberculosis contracted it as the result, of war service, and in many instances medical men cannot make a definite pronouncement upon that point. I know an ex-soldier, who, for a number of years was treated for asthma, but who, if brought into this chamber would be said to be in the last stages of consumption. This man, I am perfectly certain from a. knowledge of the facts, contracted the disease as the direct result of war service, but at, the moment I do nor know whether his application for the pension has been granted. Let us consider another and important side of the case. The wives and relatives of tubercular ex-soldiers have nursed them for many years, and having been in close contact with them over a long period, have themselves contracted the disease. Unfortunately, in many cases the disease has been contracted not only by the widows and relatives of tubercular men, but also by their children. I have been informed that the daughter of the secretary of the Tubercular Sailors and Soldiers Association of Australia and the son of the vice-president of that association have contracted the disease. This gives some idea of how widespread is this phase of the disease. Many sufferers who have not obtained any financial assistance from the department have been helped by the Tubercular Sailors anc! Soldiers Association of New South Wales with money derived from charitable sources, and I believe that since that association has been in existence approximately £48,000 has been expended in providing assistance to tubercular exsoldiers and to their wives and children. This is a definite problem which the Government must face in an effort to assist affected soldiers and their dependants. In other countries, and particularly in France, the children of exsoldiers receive greater consideration than do the ex-soldiers themselves. X-ray examinati""ns have disclosed that 40 per cent, of me tubercular ex-soldiers' wives in New South Wales - and I suppose the same applies to the whole of Australia - are suffering from the disease. 
I was so informed by the  president  of the Tubercular Sailors and Soldiers Association, of New South Wales. 
An X-ray photograph clearly shows if the lungs are affected, and is, I understand, the most modern and scientific method of ascertaining the existence of the disease. There is also the further fact that every care and attention must be given to prevent its spreading further. I realize that the Government is doing all that it can in the present circumstances, but having come in close contact with tubercular cases I shall continue to agitate until even greater consideration is given to those suffering from this disease. Additional assistance is an essential national service to ex-service men and also to their wives and relatives who have spent many years of their lives in attending to their loved  ones. 
Proposed new section 45ad to which SenatorCollings proposes to add another paragraph reads - 
Subject to this act. the commission or a board may grant a service pension not exceeding 36s. per fortnight to a member of the forces who served in a theatre of war and who- 
in the case of a man - has reached the age of60 years ; 

 b ) in the case of a woman - has reached the age of 55 years. 
The honorable senator proposes  to  add - 
in the case of a widow of a deceased member whose death was due to pulmonary tuberculosis. 
Thatproposed new section deals with a member of the forces, and as a widow is not a member of the forces I cannot see how the proposed amendment can be accepted, although it might be inserted in another part of the bill. 
That is not my responsibility. The proposed section refers to " a member of the forces." What is proposed to be inserted is a  provision  relating to a widow, who is certainly not a member of the forces. For that reason I cannot accept the amendment. 
SenatorCollings.  -  I realize that the place indicated by the Minister would be more appropriate for the insertion of my amendment, but, in view  of his declaration that the Government is not prepared to accept it, I shall not proceed with it. . However, I and other members of the Labour party will continue our agitation for this amendment with such vigor as will ultimately ensure success. 
 The act states that - 
In the case of a mentally-afflicted returned soldier, any person approved by an appeal tribunal as a proper representative of the soldier may lodge an appeal on his behalf, and shall for the purpose of the bill have all the rights of a soldier. 
Advantage has been taken of this provision. Pensions have been granted to soldiers who received war injuries, and who at some later date become insane. One instance I have in mind is that of a crippled soldier whose disablement was due to war causes. Subsequently he became insane, and his pension of £28s. a fortnight was paid to the Master in Lunacy, who paid £1 a fortnight to the dependants of that crippled soldier, and retained the balance. There is a difference between that principle and the principle contained in proposed section 45ao. and I desire to know why the Minister draws a distinction between the pensioner whose injuries are directly due to the war and one who comes under the "burntout" clause. Section 45ao states - 
If a service pensioner becomes an inmate of an asylum for the insane his pension shall, without further or other authority than this act. be deemed to be suspended. 
If a man sustained injuries, which the commission recognizes as being definitely due to the war and two or three years after his return to Australia becomes insane and enters an asylum, his pension immediately becomes the property of the Master-in-Lunacy, who in turn may distribute whathe thinks fit to the man's dependants. There is a tremendous difference between that principle and the principle applied in this bill to a service pension, because any pension that the soldier may receive under this measure is immediately, forfeited in the event of his becoming an inmate of any asylum. What will happen to the dependants of that man? 
It is obvious that proposed section 45ao covers the instance mentioned by  Senator Hardy,  because it provides for the immediate suspension of any service pension when a pensioner becomes an inmate of an asylum. I refer  Senator Hardy  to proposed new section 45  ae,  subsection 3- 
A pension under this section shall not be granted to the wife or child of a member of the forces unless a pension under this division is payable to or in respect of that member : 
Provided that for the purposes of this subsection a pension shall be deemed to be payable to a member during any period during which - 
the pension is suspended under section 45ao of this act; or 
the member is by reason only of his failure to comply with the requirements of section 45ap of this act, ineligible by virtue of that section to receive a pension. 
The effect of that provision, I consider, is that the dependants will receive their pensions while the soldier is in the asylum, although the pension of the man himself is held in suspense. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 25 agreed to. 
Clause 26- 
After section fifty-seven oF the principal act the following section is inserted: - " 57a. The Commission may require any person, whom it believes to he in a position to do so, to furnish to the Commission a confidential report as to the circumstances or the financial transactions of any pensioner or applicant for a pension, or for assistance and benefits, under this Act, or of any relatives of any such pensioner or applicant; and any person who, on being required to do so by the Commission, fails, without just cause (proof whereof shall lie upon that person) to furnish a. report within a reasonable time, or furnishes a report containing any statement which is untrue in any particular, shall be guilty of an offence ". 
. I move - 
That the words, " or of any relatives of any such pensioner or applicant" be left out. 
When the bill was considered in the House of Representatives, the Government decided to accept the suggestion to remove these words, because it was felt that such a request to the relatives might prove embarrassing to them, and the Government is anxious to avoid any inquisitorial examination of them. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 27 and 28 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[10.7]. - When I asked for leave to continue my remarks on this motion, I promised to secure an opinion from the 
Crown Law authorities because it is most important that the legal aspects of the committee's report should be clearly explained to honorable senators. I have now received that opinion which is as follows :  - 
The report of Standing Committee on Ordinances and Regulations deals,  inter alia,  with the following matters, namely: - 
1 ) The making of retrospective regulations. 
The making of regulations containing provisions in relation to the onus of proof in legal proceedings. 

 Retrospective regulations. - Most regulations made under Commonwealth acts are subject to section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1904-1932, which provides  inter alia  that they shall take effect from the date of notification in the  Gazette  or from a later date specified in the regulations. 
For many years it has been the practice in exceptional cases to provide that regulations shall be deemed to have come into operation as from a date prior to the date of notification in the  Gazette. For  the most part these regulations have conferred benefits upon the persons affected, e.g. the granting of increments or allowances to various classes of officers, and it has not been the practice to insert such a provision where the regulations prejudicially affect existing rights or impose liabilities. 
Some time ago, however, a wireless regulation was made which purported to reduce, as from a past date, the payments due to certain broadcasting companies from the revenue received from licence fees. The validity of the regulation was challenged, and the matter was litigated in the High Court. In its judgment the majority of the court decided that the provisions of section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act did not permit the making of retrospective regulations under acts in relation to which that section applied. 
It has always been the policy of the AttorneyGeneral's Department to discourage the making of retrospective regulations. This is borne out by the fact that, in October. 1934, general instructions were issued by that department toall Commonwealth departments, in which the following statement appears: - 
As a general rule, it is not advisable to attempt to make regulations having retrospective operation. 
Prior to the circulation of the report of the Standing Committee on Ordinances and Regulations, the Attorney-General's Department issued general instructions to all departments to the effect that, in view of the decision in the broadcasting company's case, the practice of making retrospective regulations should be discontinued. 
The provision which was declared void by the High Court in the broadcasting company's case read as follows: - 
This regulation shall be deemed to have commenced on the 1st November, 1927 (a date prior to the notification of the regulation ) . 
The principles of that decision apply only in cases where a statutory rule contains such a provision. 
Some of the statutory rules specified in the committee's list contain such a provision. Others do not. The decision is not applicable to the latter class. It is quite clear that some of them are not retrospective. 
Particular attention was drawn by the committee to Statutory Rules 1935, Nos. 54 and 58. 
As the Statutory Rules, 1935, No. 54. it is clear that the decision in the broadcasting company's case does not apply to this Statutory Rule. There are two reasons for this - 
1 ) The regulation does not contain a provision corresponding to that declared invalid in the broadcasting company's case, i.e. that it should be deemed to have come into operation on a date prior to notification in the  Gazette;  and 
Section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act does not apply to that statutory rule, because section 10 applies only where a contrary intention is not expressed in the particular act authorizing the making of regulations. Statutory Rules 1935, No. 54 was made under the Commonwealth Public Service Act, which contains an express provision relating to the date of commencement of regulations made under that act (see section 97 (2.)) and so indicates that Parliament did not intend section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act to apply to such regulations. 
The other statutory rule to which particular attention was drawn by the report was Statutory Rules 1935, No. 53. This statutory rule deals with proceedings instituted by the War Service Homes Commissioner for the recovery of a dwelling house in cases where a purchaser or borrower fails to comply with the terms and conditions contained in his contract or mortgage. The regulation provides that in such proceedings a. certificate by the War Service Homes Commissioner, or his delegate, or an authorized person, in respect of certain facts shall be prima facie evidence of those matters. The regulation is made to apply to proceedings whether commenced before or after making of the regulations. 
Briefly, the facts to be certified are - 
that the person purchased the dwelling house from the Commissioner, or received an advance, as the case may be; 
that he subsequently entered into possession of the dwelling house; 
that he failed to comply with the prescribed terms and conditions in the respect or respects specified in the certificate; and 
that the war service homes Commissioner has determined the tenancy. The committee cited this regulation as one of the most conspicuously retrospective regulations. As a matter of fact, it is not retrospective. It applies only in proceedings which take place after the notification of the regulation in the  Gazette.  It applies in such proceedings, however, notwithstanding the fact that the action itself may have been commenced before the regulations were made. In this respect, however, the regulations are merely declaratory of the legal position which would have existed even if no express provision had been inserted in the regulation. The position is stated in Crates on  Statute Law  as follows: - "A statute cannot be said to have a retrospective operation because it applies a new mode of procedure to suits commenced before its passing." In other words, if a statute deals merely with the procedure in an action, and does not affect the rights of the parties, " It will be held to apply prima facie to all actions, pending as well as future." 
The committee also stated that this regulation contained an undesirable provision authorizing a new form of evidence. This regulation does not authorize a new form of evidence. The following statement appears in  Phipson on Evidence  (seventh edition, page 324) as to this class of evidence: - " The certificates, letters or returns of public officers, intrusted by law with authority for the purpose, arc prima facie, but not generally conclusive, evidence of the facts authorized to be stated, but not of extraneous matters . . . The ground upon which such documents arc admitted is that where the law has appointed a person to act for a specific purpose it will trust him so far as he acts under his authority." 
Many instances could be found of provisions in Commonwealth legislation authorizing the giving of evidence in this way. It should be sufficient, however, . to refer to section 6 of the Evidence Act 1905, which provides for the giving of a certificate by an officer as to the contents of books and documents in his custody, and to regulation 23 of the War Service Homes Regulations, which provides that a certificate by the War Service Homes Commissioner as to the rates, taxes, charges, assessments, or outgoing due on a property shall be prima facie evidence of the fact, stated in the certificate. 
The position with regard to two regulations which are referred to in the report as "most conspicuously retrospective" is therefore that one of them is not covered by the decision in the broadcasting company's case and the other is not retrospective. 
Another instance of a statutory rule contained . in the list in paragraph 2 of the report, which is not retrospective is Statutory Rules 1035 No. 0. This is an amendment of the Waterside Workers' Regulations, and it provides for the payment of a fee of  £11s.  per sitting to members of the Waterside Employment Committee, and authorizes payment of this fee to be mode in respect of meetings of the committee held after the 12th April, 1934. The regulation authorizes the payment of fees in respect of some meetings held prior to the making of the regulation, because the members of this committee had rendered valuable service in an honorary capacity, and the most difficult part of the committee's duties was performed by a series of meetings held during the mouths of April, June, July, and August. It was considered reasonable, therefore, that the members of the committee should receive payment for the services rendered by them at these meetings. The total amount payable in respect ofsuch fees wasless than £30. 
The main point, however, is that this regulation was not a retrospective regulation in the true sense of the word. The position is stated inCraies  Statutory Law,  at page 324, as follows: - "A statute is to be deemed to be retrospective which takes away or impairs any vested right acquired under existing laws, or creates a new obligation, or imposes a new duty, or attaches a new disability in respect to transactions or considerations already past." But a statute " is not properly called retrospective merely because a part of the requisites for its operation is drawn from a time antecedent to its passing." 
It is quite clear that this regulation comes within the last sentence which I have quoted, namely - " A statute is not properly called retrospective merely because a part of the requisites for its operation is drawn from a time antecedent to its passing." 
It is also quite clear that this regulation is not affected by the decision in the broadcasting company's case. 
It was submitted in the committee's report that the Government should withdraw or disallow the statutory rules specified in the list in paragraph  2  of the report. The Government has considered this suggestion, but has decided that it is impracticable. Such a suggestion could not be carried out by regulation because the regulation itself would necessarily have retrospective operation, and would therefore be invalid. I have referred to some of the statutory rules contained in the list set out in the report to which the decision in the broadcasting company's case is not applicable, and 1 understand that there are others in the list which are not affected by it. It is true, however, that the principles of the decision are applicable to some of the statutory rules in the list, and that there are also other statutory rules, made over a long period of years, which might be affected by those principles. 
I venture to say that it will be found upon examination that, whenever regulations have been made to operate retrospectively, there has been good reason for doing so. Asa rule, regulations have been made to operate retrospectively only in cases where they confer a benefit, and not in cases where they prejudicially affect existing rights. It must also be remembered that it is probable that in all oases where retrospective regulations have been made, the retrospective portion of the regulations has ceased to operate. It seems to the Government, therefore, that the cancellation of these provisions at this stage would lead only to chaos and injustice, and it is thought that the better course would be to pass a general validating measure, in which provision would, of course, be made to protect the rights declared by the High' Court in the broadcasting company's case. It was hoped that it would be possible to introduce an amendment of the Acts Interpretation Act before the end of this week, in order to deal with this matter; but, as it was found -that a number of other amendments of the act were desirable, it was decided to defer the introduction of such legislation until the Senate re-assembles after the Christmas vacation, and then to introduce a comprehensive bill incorporating in the main Acts Interpretation. Act the provisions of the supplementary Acts Interpretation Act 1904-1934, as well as the other necessary amendments. A full opportunity will be afforded to honorable senators to debate the validation of the statutory rules dealt with by the committee in its report. 
In these circumstances I suggest to the Senate that further proceedings on this motion be deferred. 
There is, however, one other matter in the report of the committee to which reference should be made. In paragraph 8 of its report the committee draws attention to Statutory Rules 1935, No. 93, and expresses the opinion that there is no authority in the act to make this regulation, which, it contends, trespasses unduly upon personal rights and liberties. This regulation relates to unauthorized connexions with the telephone system. The object of the regulation is to prevent the " tapping " of authorized telephone lines. Where the department finds unauthorized equipment for this purpose upon any premises, it is, of course, open to the occupier of the premises to allege that such equipment was placed there without his authority, and, in such a case, it would be difficult for the- department to prove the contrary. The matter is one which is particularly within the knowledge of the defendant, and it seems reasonable,, therefore, to place upon him the onus of satisfying the court that he did not authorize the interference with the telephone line upon his premises. It is quite a recognized principle of the law that a person should have thrown upon him the onus of proving facts within his own knowledge. 
With reference to the statement made by the committee, that there is no authority under the act for the making of such a regulation, I am advised by the law officers that, in their opinion, the Post and Telegraph Act provides ample authority to do so. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Foll)  adjourned. 
 by leave  - I desire to make a personal explanation with regard to the report published in last night's issue of the Sydney  Sun  concerning an action at law in which W. R. C. Bagnall sued E. S. Moulton for breach of contract. I should not have referred to this matter in the Senate, were it not for the fact that, in the course of his summing up, the Chief Justice made some very scathing comments, and mentioned that  Mr. Bagnall  had allotted to me 750 promotor's shares as a result of my having introduced him to  Mr. Moulton.  I am making this explanation only because a House of Representatives select committee is referred to in correspondence between  Mr. Bagnall  and the National 
Tobacco Corporation Ltd. Briefly, the facts of my association with the National Tobacco Corporation are these: - 
Nearly six years ago  Mr. Bagnall,  ex- M.L.A., whom I have known for many years, called on me at Parliament Blouse and asked if I could assist him in the formation of a company in Australia for the growing of tobacco. I told him I could not do so; but, having been discussing the matter with  Mr. Moulton  a few days previously, and having been shown some light leaf grown in Australia, I gave  Mr. Bagnall  a brief letter of introduction to  Mr. Moulton.  Shortly after this incident I went to England for a trip, and whilst on the boat received a telegram from  Mr. Moulton  telling me that a company had been formed for growing and manufacturing tobacco in Australia, and inviting me to join the board. I accepted the invitation, and heard little or nothing more of the project until I returned eight months later. By that time  Mr. Bagnall  had severed his connexion with the company. I was advised that  Mr. Bagnall  had allotted to me 750 of his promoter's shares, which qualified me for a directorship. I knew nothing of his intention at the time. I received his invitation. I did not even know that a company would be formed. On my return to Australia I attended one meeting of the board, resigned my position as director, and, later, returned all the shares to  Mr. Bagnall.  I heard nothing more of this company until I read the article in the  Sun  this morning. At no time did  Mr. Bagnall,  when talking to me, ever refer to the select committee, or to  Mr. Tully,  who was a member of it. In fact, I saw  Mr. Bagnall  only on the one occasion for a few minutes. The select committee was composed entirely of members of the House of Representatives. I was not a member of it, nor was I associated with it in any way. Ihope that this statemen t will receive the same publicity as was given to the report of the court proceedings yesterday. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
When will the conversion of the Petersham telephone exchange from the manual to the automatic system be completed? 
Pending the completion ofsuch work will the department expedite the conversion in the ease of public hospitals and medical practitioners? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
The conversion of the Petersham exchange from manual to automatic working is being proceeded with as rapidly as the circumstances will permit, but it cannot bestated at this stage when the work will be completed. 
The change to automatic conditions is being effected according to a definite technical plan, and it is not practicable to discriminate in the selection of the subscribers, to whom priority shall be given for transfer to the new automatic equipment. 
. -I propose to give a brief history of the sugar agreement. During the last twenty years, the Fisher, Hughes, BrucePage, Scullin and Lyons Governments, representing all shades of political thought, observed the same policy in protecting the sugar industry - that of successively renewing the agreement. We are now asked to continue that policy, with which the Opposition is in entire and enthusiastic accord. The only material difference in the method of renewal is that the Lyons Government was the first to make the agreement subject to parliamentary approval, thus upholding the principle of the supremacy of Parliament. This action was first taken in December, 1932; the same method is being applied to the agreement now under discussion. In addition, the Lyons Government secured a reduction of the retail price of sugar by  id.  per lb. as from January,. 1933. It is only fair to point out, however, that on no occasion has either branch of this Parliament indicated its disapproval of any of the numerous sugar agreements made since 1915, although the subject has been frequently under discussion. During the last twenty years several commissions have inquired into the conditions in the industry ; yet in not one of them, was it suggested that the industry was not deserving of adequate protection, or that any major fault required correction. It is significant that nearly all the members of these and previous commissions were citizens of the Southern States, and wholly disassociated from the sugar industry. The last inquiry was that made by the Commonwealth Committee appointed in 1931,. and it was given the most comprehensive terms of reference directed to any such body. It dealt with land values, alien penetration, wages, conditions of employment, efficiency; costs and profits of growing, milling, refining, shipping, wholesaling, and retailing, the effect of sugar prices on the fruit and other industries, and allied matters. The consumers had three direct representatives nominated by their respective interests, namely, housewives, manufacturers, and fruitgrowers. This committee unanimously recommended an extension of the Sugar Agreement and the embargo for five years. All that the Lyons Government has done on this occasion is to announce another renewal of the agreement for five years, subject to parliamentary approval, at a price lower than either section of the. 1931 Committee recommended. It is noteworthy that the present capital city retail price of 4d. per lb. for refined sugar represents a smaller advance on the pre-war price level than has. occurred in regard to any other staple food except butter. I have extracted the foregoing particulars from a speech delivered in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White). 
I shall give a few more salient facts regarding the industry. The growers of sugar cane in Queensland and New South Wales number nearly 10,000, and there are 35 raw-sugar mills in those two States. The capital sunk in the farms is estimated at£20,000,000, and the mills with their plants are worth at least £10,000,000. In addition to this a vast amount of capital is invested in the towns, railways, roads, wharves, and other undertakings, which depend for their existence upon the sugar industry. The sugar cane produced in this country in a normal year is about 4,000,000 tons, whilst raw sugar production is approximately 550,000 tons. The coastal freights on the sugar carried by Australian ships amount to about £500,000 a year. The industry provides £200,000 per annum for the assistance of the fruitindustry. All sugar used in manufactured goods exported from Australia is supplied at. the world's parity price. In addition to the farmers, over 20,000 men are employed in the raw sugar industry, including engineers, mechanics, chemists and representatives of nearly all the skilled trades. The industry . also finds employment for hosts of men on wharves, in ships, in refineries, and in other occupations. There is a large sugar refinery in every mainland capital city of the Commonwealth, the Pyrmont refinery in Sydney employing 1,200 men all the year round. Cane cutting is carried out on piecework, the canecutter, like the shearer, being paid by results. Two-fifths of Australia lies within the tropics. Of this vast territory only the sugar districts and some adjacent areas can be regarded as effectively occupied. In striking contrast to this fact, parallel latitudes in Northern and "Western Australia are practically empty and unproductive. Australia is the only country where cane sugar is produced by white labour. At least 90 per cent, of the farmers and sugar workers are British. The services of the industry in maintaining the ideal of a White Australia are inestimable. No bounty has ever been paid to the sugar growers in this country. There are over 1,000 miles of 2-ft. tram lines with steam traction attached to the various sugar mills; most of the tramway material is now being made in Australia. Queensland sugar mills are now making ohe ton of sugar from less than seven tons of cane. This is a world's record and is proof of the high efficiency of the industry. The consumption of sugar,  per capita  in Australia is greater than that of any other country. Those are tabloid statements on. which I shall enlarge in my remarks. The Opposition congratulates the Government unstintedly on its action in introducing this measure. At this  juncture  we desire to point out what the Labour party has done in the interests nf this industry. The first sugar agreement was made by two LabourGovernments, the Ryan Labour Government of Queensland and the Commonwealth Labour Government of 1915. and that agreement laid the foundation of the policy that has been followed since then by the Queensland and the Commonwealth Governments in respect of this industry up to the present time. Labour governments have always fought for this industry and invariably have stood for the renewal of the sugar embargo in the face of those who fought for its abolition and advocated the importation of black-grown raw sugar into Australia. Under Labour's policy the Queensland cane farmer has been protected and given security and stability in his industry with the result that at the present time he receives a fair share of the returns from the industry. No Labour government has refused any reasonable request made to it for assistance or guidance from the industry, nor has it rejected any practical scheme advanced in the interests of either this industry, or agriculture generally. In 1915 the Queensland Labour Government passed a Sugar-cane Prices Act, under which was established the Sugar-cane Prices Board, and I draw the attention of honorable senators to the fact that since that day the policy of the fixation of prices in many other primary-producing industries has become quite popular even with anti-Labour governments. Prior to the passing of this legislation the price of cane was determined by the millers, and was usually based on the price that the least efficient mill in the district could afford to pay and at the same time operate at a profit. The extraordinary development of the sugar industry in recent years is due, in great measure, to the inspiration, organization, support and continued encouragement given to it by the Queensland Labour Government, which is continuing this policy to-day. For the last seven years Australia has been producing well over 500,000 tons of sugar per annum, about 300,000 tons of which is required for ' our own use. The balance is exported and sold at world's price. 
What are the interests which oppose the sugar agreement every time a proposal to renew that agreement comes before this Parliament ? 
I am grateful for that interjection. I tell  Senator Johnston  that nothing is further from the truth. I hope to prove that the sugar consumers of Australia have never opposed this agreement. 
I expected an interjection of that nature also. I propose to deal with the refractory organizations which, it is alleged, represent the consumers of sugar, but which, by the way, do not represent them. In enumerating those people and organizations who oppose the sugar agreement, I shall begin by mentioning a gentleman named Burnett, whose address is given as  No.  9 Martin-place, Sydney. I mention him although perhaps he is not really worth powder and shot. Although he is an elderly gentleman he is pretty prolific with his pen and every now and then in one journal or another he comes out with a diatribe against the sugar industry. Recently an article written by him along such lines was published in a journal in Katoomba, and a friend of mine, happening to read it, forwarded it to me with a request for evidence to rebut the arguments set out in it. After having numerous articles published along these lines in many journals, this gentleman went along to certain sugar interests and said to them : " This is the kind of stuff I am turning out, but for a consideration I am prepared to write exactly in an opposite way; that is if we can come to terms ". That gentleman is of the type of those who according to  Senator Duncan-Hughes  and other honorable senators, represent the sugar consumers of Australia - a gentleman who is prepared to sell his journalistic ability and his immortal soul to both sides at a certain price. 
Considering that the gentleman is very old and even his best friends suggest that he should not be roughly handled, because he might collapse under the strain, I do not pro~ pose to do anything of the kind, but I am prepared to give the honorable senator a letter of introduction to this gentleman if he desires to carry my statement to him. I am not looking for an opportunity to become a martyr, but I shall accept the responsibility at any time of refuting in this chamber the statements of such gentlemen. 
That query is really remarkable. The honorable senator knows I am a man of peaceful inclinations and that I would not willingly take on a fight of that sort. However, if this gentleman can be persuaded to adopt a fighting attitude on this issue, I shall be prepared to have a piece of him. Other people who claim unjustifiably to speak on behalf of the sugar consumers of this country are represented by such organizations as the Henry George League. This is a worthy body, but it is definitely a freetrade league, and as such - and I say this for the particular benefit of  Senator Johnston,  who also is a freetrader - is anti-Australian because it is opposed- to the policy which this country has adopted as its national policy, a policy which i3 supported by all shades of political opinion and members of this Government, except  Senator Johnston,  who gives this Ministry somewhat lukewarm allegiance. The Henry George League cannot claim to speak for the sugar' consumers of Australia; being anti-Australian in its outlook, it cannot claim to speak on behalf of any decent Australian. Other organizations of this character are the Freetrade and Land Values League and the Tariff Reform League. These organizations whenever they attack the sugar industry claim to do so behalf of the sugar consumers, but not one of them can justly claim that right. They are anti-tariffists,  antiprotectionists, arch-freetraders and antiAustralian, and, as such, ,are not worthy of any notice when a matter of this nature is being considered by honorable senators. Then we have the Housewives Association. We know something about the constitution of that association, and we know that whenever that association has been able, by the exercise of pressure, to secure representation on bodies which have inquired into the sugar industry, and such representatives have been persuaded to make a trip to the cane-fields in Queensland, all of them have come back convinced that their association is wrong in adopting an antagonistic attitude towards this industry. In fact, the Housewives Association is not authorized in any way whatever, even Haider its own constitution, to speak for the sugar consumers of this country, or even for .the women sugar consumers. Another association which is antagonistic to the sugar industry is the Sugar Consumers Association, which has not even progressed so far as to draw up a constitution. This association is the year's best joke. If honorable senators knew the gentlemen who constitute this association, they would realize immediately how utterly unqualified these men are to speak about the sugar industry. All that they can do is to establish contact with certain vested interests which object to the Australian sugar industry being protected as it is by this agreement, in an endeavour to make Australia a cheap-labour country, and thus enable them to further exploit the people and to make enormous profits. There are others not .allied to the Labour party who are .in favour of the bill now before the Senate. I wish to quote the opinion of two honorable senators. One is absent, but the other, owing to the exalted position which he occupies in this chamber, will not have an opportunity to speak on the second reading of the bill. I quote the remarks of  Senator Guthrie,  who does not support the Opposition, but who is logical in his criticisms.  His  remarks in  Hansard  of the 12 th June, 1925, read- 
I understand that it is the intention of the Government to place a total embargo upon the importation of sugar into Australia. I do not favour that policy. I realize that it is necessary to give adequate protection to the sugar industry, which is a very fine industry; but I am not in favour of total prohibition. Those people who make a great fuss about the price they 'have to pay for sugar .should realize the excellent position in which they stand compared with the inhabitants of some other countries. Recently, with other honorable senators, I visited .South Africa. We were surprised to find .that, despite the fact that the average rate of wages paid to the workers in the sugar industry in South Africa amounted to only from 8s. to 10b. a -week, compared with an average of 25s. a day in Australia, the price of sugar was no lower than in Australia. The .Queensland sugar fields are so much better managed, and their machinery is so much more efficient, that the price of sugar paid .by the consumer in Australia is no greater than is paid by the consumer in South Africa; and the South African sugar is very inferior to that which is refined in Australia. 
 -The  inefficiency, of their machinery is the cause. I formed the opinion that cheap black Habour led to inefficiency, and I returned to Australia more firmly convinced than ever that the policy of a white Australia is a correct one. 
The  West Australian  - the leading newspaper published in Perth - published the following : - 
The Melville Road Board recently -wrote to  .Senator Lynch  and other Federal parliamentary members, protesting against the renewal of the sugar agreement and requesting that a royal commission be appointed in inquire into the industry.  Senator P.  J. Lynch, who is  President  of the Senate, replied that ho would .see if there  was a possible hope of securing a reduction in the price of sugar, "but not at the expense of injuring or risking the extinction of a great industry, and perhaps inducing .a bad revulsion of feeling against our own (Western Australian) interests into the bargain ".  Senator Lynch,  in his letter, stated that the sugar industry had been the subject of many inquiries ever since the day when the Kanakas were sent away from Queensland, and it became an industry exclusively worked and owned by Australians. The last inquiry was held in 1931, and the findings of the commission on that occasion was very significant. It had to be remembered that, before the appointment of the commission, the retail price of sugar was 4id. a pound. As a result of the findings of the commission, however, and particularly on account of the action of the Lyons Government, the price had been reduced a further -Jd. a pound to 4d. a pound, as at present, and the old agreement, under which 4Jd. a pound could have been charged up to June next was brought to an end. The commission included representatives nf every important section of the community, particularly consumers, and a commissioner from Western Australia. 
Both the majority and minority reports declared against the cessation of the embargo on sugar. Hence, continued the letter, it was that the commissioners voting in the minority report, and representing the consumers, took the same view as those in the majority .report. The minority report recommended that the price .of sugar could not be reduced more than Jd. a pound ; therefore that section of the commission, which was ostensibly charged with taking care of the interests of the consumers of Australia, deliberately came to the conclusion that a greater reduction in  justice  to all interests, could not 'be made. The Jd. a pound represented .an expenditure of about ls. 8d. per annum per head of the population, of Australia. Therefore, it .had to be considered that a great industry, now firmly established, giving employment to 30,000 persons, having a capital of .some £50.000.000 invested in it. and  consuming  £12,000.000 worth of products from the temperate parts of Australia, was threatened with a further and serious inroad upon its position. 
For this part, as an old protectionist, willing: to give a helping hand to every industry in the Commonwealth,  Senator Lynch  said: that he had always regarded the sugar industry as one which, situated in the steamy tropical part of Australia, was entitled to equal, if not agreat deal more generous, treatment than any other industry situated in more pleasant surroundings.. Ifhe was asked, therefore, to take further action in the direction of threatening or rendering less secure such an important industry, especially in the fact of the consumers' minority report, he intended to be very careful before he did so.  His  attitude, consequently, was to wait and see what fresh facts might be placed before the Commonwealth Parliament. 

 Senator Lynch went on to make some further pertinent remarks regarding the Queensland sugar industry, but all the timehewas assuring those to whom he was speaking that he would not do anything to injure the Australian sugar industry, which is of such outstanding benefit to the Commonwealth. I thank  Senator Lynch  for. his statesmanlike utterances on that occasion. An. article published in the  Bendigo Advertiser  in October last reads - 
Sugar-growers have said that they were not allowed during the war to charge Australian consumers the price that was being paid overseas for sugar, and they have used it as an argument why they should now be allowed to charge enough to make the growing of sugar profitable. It is a fair argument, although the period in which they have been getting more thaw the world's price has been more prolonged than the period when they got less. To justify the continuance of it the need for maintaining population in the northern part of Queensland is mentioned, and to justify the export of other primary products for a price lower than that fixed for the home market it is pointed out that Australia must export to pay the interest on its overseas debt and for its imports. Both arguments are valid. Australia must hold the north, and if it does not do it through the sugar industry it must do it in some other way-, and if it does not pay its overseas interest and for imports by primary produce it will have to find another means to meet the interest, and go without its imports. Other countries which have large manufacturing industries and low costs in these industries make their overseas payments in manufactured good's, but Australia is one of the countries that pay with primary products. To these payments all should contribute equitably; it should not be left to the primary producer to produce wheat, butter, fruit, eggs, wool, and other farm products at a loss to pay the country's overseas debt. 
With those sentiment's I entirely agree. There are certain objections urged - and those who oppose the renewal of the agreement have their rights-with which I propose to deal. It is contended that the over-production, in Queensland should cease. I assure the Senate that the sugargrowers of Queensland and in the northern portion of New SouthWales would be infinitely better off if an exportable surplus were not produced. That is a statement of fact and cannot be effectively argued inasmuch as every ton of sugar exported reduces the price over the whole crop. It must be obvious to; the producers that if there were not a surplus their position would be better than it is to-day. We have, however, to face the fact that if the production of a surplus ceased, at least 120,000 acres now under sugar cane would go out of cultivation. Something would then have to, be done for those producers, now engaged in the production of cane on that area. It is easy to say that they could engage in some other form of primary production, but if they did it would be in some primary industry already producing an exportable surplus. In those circumstances they would be jumping out of the frying pan into the. fire-. 
For the Taxation Year 1934-1935. 
Number of taxpayers generally. - Increased 4 per cent. 
Number of cane-growers who are taxpayers. - Decreased 25 per cent. 
Net income of all taxpayers. - Increased 10 per cent. 
Net income of cane-growers who paid tax. - decreased 30.S5 per cent. 
The taxable income of all taxpayers. - Increased 13.9 per cent. 
The taxable income of cane-growers. - Decreased 32 per cent. 
The total tax assessed for all taxpayers. - Increased 20.5 per cent. 
The total tax assessed for  cane-growers.  - Decreased 41.3 per cent. 
The records disclose that the average price of sugar in 1932 was £18 6s. 2d.; in 1933, £16 3s. 6d., and in 1934, £15 10s. 6d. Another point urged by those who oppose the renewal of the sugar agreement is that there has been tremendous speculation in land values and that the sugar properties are sold and resold at fabulous prices. That charge was true in the early stages of production, but it is untrue to-day. The measures taken by the Queensland Government, which are implemented by legislation such as that now before the chamber, prevent speculation in sugar lands. The result is that a canefarmer who desires to sell his property cannot complete the transfer until he has satisfied the Lands Department that a speculative price does not enter into the sale, and that full provision has been made against the deterioration of the land by continued cropping, and for various other risks which would warrant objection being taken to a sale at enhanced values. Therefore, I consider that I shall be able to demonstrate, as I proceed, that the complaints made by opponents of the bill against various branches of the industry cannot be supported. At this juncture, I. desire to offer a word of praise to the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  for the sentiments he expressed in moving the second reading of this bill. A copy of that speech has been very courteously supplied to me, and I propose to quote an extract from ii for the purpose of lending it additional emphasis. The portion I refer to is concerned with the claim that profits made by the industry are excessive, and that the growers of sugar are having a glorious time. The Minister said - 
I now come to the reasons actuating the Government in continuing the present prices for another five years. The first consideration was the financial position of the producers of sugar-cane and raw sugar. In this connexion the last inquiry into the sugar industry - the Commonwealth Sugar Inquiry Committee of 1931 - issued two reports. The majority report found that the cost of production up to 1930 justified no reduction in the then retail price of 44d. per lb., and the minority report considered that a reduction equivalent to id. per lb. could be made. These opinions were based upon a cost of efficient production of raw sugar fluctuating between £19 and £22 per ton. Since then, of course, the economic depression has brought about lower wages in the sugar industry, and also lower costs of commodities required by sugar producers for  their  productive and living purposes. 
On the other hand, the Lyons Government secured by voluntary agreement with the producers themselves, a reduction in the Australian price as from January, 1933, equivalent to id. per lb retail. I had the honour of representing the Government during the negotiations at which, this agreement was arrived at. This reduction represented a loss of £1,250,000 per annum in the revenue of the sugar producers. Furthermore, the net return on the raw sugar exported hae fallen appreciably. The result of these two factors is that the average return for all raw sugar last year was only £15 10s. 9d. per ton, which was found, on examination by the Government last February, to be definitely less than the present cost of efficient production plus a reasonable return to farmers on their capital investment. 
By voting against this bill, an honorable senator will indicate, in effect, that be is not in favour of the farmers engaged in this valuable industry receiving a price to cover efficient production and to give a reasonable return on the capital outlay. The Minister proceeded - 
Figures definitely prove that the industry is not in a position to stand the only reduction that could be of any practical benefit to consumers, namely, another  id.  per lb. Such a reduction is equivalent to fi ,250,000 per annum less revenue for the producers. The growers' share of such a reduction would be £875,000, which is more than the total net income of £780,251 of the 1,891 growertaxpayers, as revealed in the last annual report of the Queensland Commissioner for Taxes, and much more than their taxable income of £569,194 for the year ended the 30th June, 1934. A reduction of jd. per lb. would, therefore, eliminate practically all  cane-growers  ii oni thu income-tax field. In the light of these facts, the Government felt that there was no case whatever for further reducing the income of the sugar producers. 
Another charge uttered in condemnation of the industry is that it is being monopolized by aliens. It is easy to make such a reckless statement, but it is very reprehensible when the facts are so different, and the figures relating to the true  position are so conveniently obtainable. In the early months of 1934 I had the opportunity to make an extensive tour of South Australia, in the course of which I visited Port Pirie, and was conducted over the wonderful smelters there. In conversation with the manager of that enterprise I asked whether it was a fact that the majority of the men engaged in certain branches of that industry were aliens, because I had been led to believe that such was the case. When he told me the official figures of the proportion of Australians to aliens employed in that vast undertaking, I was astounded. To-day, however, I wish not so much to. astound as to confound, those persons who consider that the conduct of the sugar industry is in the hands of aliens. In Queensland there are between 3,000 and 4,000 Italians, as compared with approximately 700,000 persons of British race. Of those engaged in cutting cane in Northern Queensland, 75 per cent, are required by law to be of British stock, although I should add that three centres are excluded from this provision. However, the fact remains that the proportion of British to alien labour engaged in the cane fields is 75 to 25 in all other centres, and this proportion is being continually reduced. In 1931, investigations showed that, of the 8,142 cutters employed in the industry 80.4 per cent, were of the British race and 19.6 per cent, had been naturalized. 
Honorable senators will observe that of the five staple articles of diet, the consumption of sugar  per capita  is the second highest, whilst the cost  per capita  is the lowest. What is the justification for saying that the retail price of sugar is unduly burdensome? I shall now give a comparison between the latest and the pre-war prices for household commodities : - 
This table demonstrates, therefore, that with the exception of butter and milk, the increase of the price of sugar in those 24 years has been the lowest in the scale. 
I shall now refer briefly to the state of the sugar industry in India. I do not propose to enter into a disquisition on the harrowing details ; honorable senators, either from their personal observations, or from their reading, are well aware of the position. In this connexion, however, the Brisbane  Telegraph  of the 1st November, 1935, reported that the sugar industry in India is confronted with the same problem as that which- faced" the industry in Queensland in its early stages. In India the Government is now doing what this bill proposes,, although the measures are not so comprehensiveor advantageous to the sugar producers. It is realized that nothing short of compulsory organization and control of the industry from the producer to the consumer will alleviate their plight. Every honorable senator will admit that the fiscal policy of Australia is the protection and encouragement of its primary and secondary industries. I sum up the attitude of every good Australian by saying that, in these things, there must be two-way traffic. In regard to sugar, there is definitely two-way traffic. This industry is of vital importance not only to Queensland, which is a primaryproducing State, but also to those other States in which secondary industries are more highly developed. The manufacturing States - New South "Wales and Victoria - cannot have it both ways. As a result of Australia's national policy of protection which aims at building up in the Commonwealth a population of contented, well-paid, decent living people, those States have benefited. Because it believes that the primary-producing States also should benefit from the fiscal policy of the country, the Labour Opposition in this chamber has supported every proposal to assist those engaged in primary production. It has supported legislation designed to help those engaged in the production of wheat,: meat, dried fruits, and other primary products, and has assisted to make liberal grants to those States which claim to have sr.ffe.red as a result of federation. In 1934, Queensland products to the value of £11,000,000 were disposed of in the other States. In return, goods from those States, valued at £14,000,000 were imported into Queensland. The southern States bought sugar to the value of £6,000,000 from Queensland in that year. What did Queensland give to them in return? In the purchase o£ confectionery, biscuits and cakes, from the southern States, Queensland expended £500,000, and trebled the sum in paying for machinery,- implements and galvanized iron used to modernize its farm and mill methods and increase its- industrial efficiency. During that year, Queensland smokers - and I am not included among them - expended £1,000,000 in the purchase of tobacco and cigarettes, all of which were manufactured in the southern States. Those figures can be verified by reference to the official records. 
I have already shown the importance of the sugar industry to Queensland and to the other States of Australia, but, so far, I have dealt only with the commercial aspect of the industry. I have given cold figures, and dealt with the industry from a book-keeping point of view - the sordid materialistic aspect - but now I want to get away from the materia] benefits which the industry has conferred on Australia, and show that in the sugar areas of Northern Queensland a wonderfully successful experiment has been carried out. In those tropical areas, it has been proved beyond doubt that the white man can do the most laborious work, and not only maintain his health, efficiency and virility, but also improve them. Indeed, the experiment has proved that each succeeding generation is superior in health, efficiency and virility to its predecessor. The importance of the success of that experiment cannot be overemphasized. I need not stress the importance of peopling the northern parts of this great Commonwealth with a virile white race. Unless honorable senators have had access to the same sources of information as those from which I shall now quote, I doubt whether they have any idea of what has been done in this connexion.  Sir Raphael  Cilento, in his work, the  White Mcm in the Tropics,  says - 
Australia has the unique distinction of having bred up during the last 70 years, a large, resident, pure-blooded white population, under tropical conditions. This more  happy  experience is directly referable to the relative absence of tropical diseases, and also of a resident native race. To the great majority of the inhabitants of temperate climates the word "Tropical" conjures up visions of sweltering mangrove flats - the haunts of the crocodile, of rank and steaming forests., that exhale the musky odour of decaying vegetation, deadly  snakes,  &amp;c. 
He goes on to say that the opposite is true in Australia, because' of the development of this industry. It is true that he does not mention the sugar industry, but he refers to the progress which has been made in the development of industry, and that can refer only to the sugar industry which is the most important one conducted in that portion of the continent. Statistics covering the period 1907 to 1916 prove conclusively that in regard to infant mortality Northern Queensland compares favorably with Central and Southern Queensland, and has a better record than either Victoria or Tasmania.  Dr. J.  S. C. Elkington, Director of the Division of Tropical Hygiene, Commonwealth Department of Health, in an article entitled "White Women in the Australian Tropics said - 
The tropical-born baby's chances of survival are substantially better than those born in London, Switzerland, England and Wales, Canada or Scotland, and the rest of Australia. Mentally, school children are as far advanced in the tropics as are children born elsewhere in Australia. 
I ask honorable senators to give to these statements the consideration to which they are entitled, and to cast their votes accordingly. An employer with twenty years' experience remarks - 
The British gangs head the list (i.e., efficiency and economy of labour), against allcomers. 
A federal royal commission stated in its report that it entertained no doubt about the possibility of an effective settlement of the Queensland coastal areas by a white population. The report stated - 
The present population is a normally healthy one, with a fully developed physique and a low death rate. 
In evidence given before the commission, the head mistress of the State school at Mossman, North Queensland, who is as much entitled to express an opinion as is any representative of the Housewives Association, said - 
The general standard of health and physical standard here are as good or better than they were in the west . The attendance is better than on the Darling Downs. Only two children who have been in attendance at the school have died since I have been here (thirteen and a half years) . . . Neither of them was born in the district. 

 Extension of time granted.] I have here some statistics extracted from the latest census returns, which prove in the most convincing manner the part played by the sugar industry in developing the northern portion of Australia. Whereas the population of the Commonwealth has increased by 21.9 per cent. between 1921 and 1933, the population of the sugar areas from Mossman to Mackay increased by 87.5 per cent. Does that not indicate that the sugar industry is doing a great deal to populate the Commonwealth? The following table shows the percentage increase of population in the various States and territories of the Commonwealth in the period 1921-1933 :  - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

As honorable senators know, I am an enthusiast for the sugar industry of Queensland, but I frankly confess that the figures which I shall now give to the Senate astonished me - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_11_1.jpg"></graphic>

The Opposition will heartily support the bill. We express our gratitude to the Government for having introduced a measure for the renewal of the agreement, and hope that it will receive the unanimous support of the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Hardy)  adjourned. 
To enable honorable senators to attend an informal farewell by the Parliament to  His Excellency  the Governor-General  (Sir Isaac Isaacs)  the sitting will be suspended until this afternoon. 
 I listened most attentively to the excellent speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and his eloquent advocacy on behalf of the sugar industry. However, I cannot approve of the terms in which he spoke of those organizations which have seen fit to criticize that industry. I believe that by intemperate criticism the Leader of the Opposition may alienate the sympathy of many people who are now disposed to support the industry. After all, any group of men or women in this country is entitled to organize for any particular purpose, and to my mind such organizations as the Housewives Association and the Henry George League have a perfect right to criticize not only this industry but also any other industry which plays a part in the economic life of this nation. I think the term" anti-Australian " which the Leader of the Opposition has applied to these organizations is entirely too harsh, because it may be that these organizations have made their deductions sincerely from certain facts. Even conviction that their deductions are wrong, does not warrant one in denying them the right to express themselves. Thus it is wrong for the Leader of the Opposition, which, he claims, represents  46  per cent. of the Australian people in this chamber, to refer to such organizations as" antiAustralian". I could just as easily describe the Australian Labour party as " anti- Australian " ; I am sure that if I did so the Leader of the Opposition would immediately and emphatically object. Thus he should be prepared to admit the right of such organizations to express their opinions. I trust that in future the Leader of the Opposition will not deny to a minority freedom to criticize the sugar industry. 
Most decidedly the honorable senator has such a right, but I dispute his right to term these organizations " anti-Australian ".  His  denunciation was so vehement that I would not have been surprised had he asked the Minister to apply the Crimes Act to these organizations on the ground that they were unlawful associations. I do not want my remarks concerning these organizations to be interpreted to mean that I am against the sugar industry. I am not opposed to that industry. This legislation embodies two definite principles, each of which, to my mind, is vital to the interests of the community, and particularly to those interests represented by members of the Country party. The first principle is that of the right of a primary industry to demand a homeconsumption price for its products; and the second is that of the right of the people of this country, through their Government, to protect their own internal economy. I submit that we are subscribing to both principles by protecting the sugar industry. In so doing we are only following the example of most of the nations of the world. Although many men in public life in the past advocated freetrade, I venture to say that under present international economic conditions it is impossible for such men, even did they desire to do so, to adhere to that policy any longer. I do not say that I am a freetrader; certainly, while I have been a member of this chamber, I have never advocated the principle of freetrade; throughout my career as an honorable senator I have stood for a reasonable amount of protection, not only to primary, but also to secondary, industries. For the benefit of freetraders, however. I submit that international economic conditions to-day, when every nation is aiming at autarchy, are entirely different from those existing eight or ten years ago. Whether it is due to the fear of war or to economic stress is a debatable point, but it is clear that governments are now concentrating on their own unemployment problems and endeavouring, even at the sacrifice of economic principles, to overcome them by supporting the principle of national self-sufficiency. Such a policy, whether it be adopted by low-wage or high-wage countries, can have only one result, namely, a reduction of the volume of international trade. To-day a part of the economy of practically every nation is the protection of its industry from  international competition. This does not involve merely the fixing of quotas through bi-lateral trade agreements, or the limitation of production, but seeks also to avoid the incidence of a depreciated currency, which is one of the most insidious instruments use in trade wars. To honorable senators who advocate that the embargo on sugar should be relaxed, I ask, "Remembering the importance of the sugar industry to the national welfare, are you prepared to allow it to suffer the effects of such an instrument as a depreciated currency?" "We know that the problem of currency has changed considerably during the last ten years. Ten years ago the nations of the world were on the gold standard. What is the position to-day? The currency policy of each country, and its relation to the exchange of another country, have a definite bearing on its protection policy. First of all there is the gold bloc, consisting of a minority of countries which still adhere to the gold standard. Frankly, I admit that these, in so far as they can make a weapon of exchange depreciation, are not a menace to the sugar industry, but the majority of the nations " manage " their own currency, and if by so doing they can increase their  exportations  they do not hesitate to depreciate their currency. Japan to-day is a very good example of a country which has accelerated its export trade through a depreciated currency. At present the Australian £1 in Japan is worth 27s. Over the last few years, Japan's export trade has been increased as a result, not only of low wages, long hours of labour, and the special industrial programmes which have been undertaken in that country, but also of its depreciated currency. Any one acquainted with this subject knows that the main result accruing from such a policy is that it enables a country adopting it to dump its exports in any other country where the exchange is adverse with consequent repercussions on the economy of the exporting country. That is my first point. Now I a3k: Are we prepared to allow the sugar industry to be endangered by allowing, such a country to dump its goods here? Realizing the full implications of such a policy and the advantages which it give3 to certain countries, which adopt that policy, honorable senators must admit that the present protection afforded to the sugar industry must be maintained. Is Australia alone in following its present policy of providing internal economic protection, or on the other hand, are other countries adopting a freetrade policy to-day? Any honorable senator who investigates this matter will find that every country has been forced to join the tariff circle; even England, that grand old country of freetrade, has been forced to take refuge behind a tariff barrier, because it realizes that if it does not do so it will have no means of protecting its own economy. That represents a momentous change of policy. In regard to sugar, I point out that England and Belgium are the only countries that admit sugar free of duty to-day. I know perfectly well that, as this debate proceeds, those who are opposed to the policy of protecting the sugar industry will make great capital of the embargo on imported sugar. I frankly admit that, if it were possible, I would prefer to see some other form of protection for the sugar industry substituted for the present embargo. I do not like the word " embargo " ; to my mind it means total prohibition, and I do not like total prohibition because, unfortunately, all. international trade is weighed in the balance and all governments are forced, whether they like it or not, to make bi-lateral treaties in the interests of their own trade. Thus, it stands to reason that 'the prohibition of any article is likely to arouse antagonism on the part of those countries which are customers for many of our primary products. I would enthusiastically support any other measure to protect the sugar industry in preference to the present embargo. 
After analysing the best data I could secure on this matter, I say most emphatically that we have no alternative to a policy of total prohibition. The reason for this lies in the tremendous fluctuation of world parity prices for sugar. On that point it is interesting to read the report of the Sugar Inquiry Committee of 1931, on the subject of the embargo. I point out that the opinions expressed on this matter in that report are not the opinions of a majority or a minority section of the committee, but are the unanimous opinions of the committee, and, therefore, must be given the most careful consideration. This report states - 
One of the most important considerations which require attention in dealing with the method of protecting the sugar industry seems to bo: Is the embargo,  par se,  better than a customs tariff or any other method of protecting the industry from foreign competition? Wo realize that it may be preferable to protect many industries merely by a customs tariff In the case of sugar, however, this method appears to have grave disadvantages, owing to the frequent and wide fluctuations in the prices of foreign sugar. In 1924, the then Prime Minister (the Bight Honorable S. M. Bruce) referred to these violent fluctuations in the world's price, when announcing his Government's decision to extend the embargo. 
I point out that the world price for sugar fluctuated over a period of years by so much as £12 a ton. Thus, had a customs tariff been adopted as a means of protecting this industry, it would have had to be framed on a sliding scale. The report shows that since 1924 the fluctuations have been even more pronounced, as will be seen by the figures which I shall quote. These show the. various changes in the price at which foreign sugar could have entered Australia from October, 1923, to December, 1930. I ask honorable senators to consider these figures carefully and to ask themselves whether it would have been possible, by the imposition of customs duties, to have protected the sugar industry more effectively than has been done through the present embargo. The report states- 
From this statement it will be seen that the  high  and low points were £36 3s. Sd. and £.10 10s. Od. respectively - a difference of no less than £25 1 3s. 2d. At the peak price, no customs duty would be necessary to protect the Australian industry at its present list wholesale price of £37 6s. 8d. per ton. At the lowest price, a. duty of approximately £26 per ton, or over £16 more than tho present tariff on cane sugar, would be necessary. 
In other words, the world's price has risen to such an extent that, if sugar had been, imported, it would hav* been sold below the present price of r.he Australian product. That statement answers effectively the critics who contend that the embargo should be removed, and that the industry should be protected by the imposition of a reasonable customs duty. I am quite prepared to support a customs duty, if it can be shown that it can be effectively applied, but, until some scheme can be devised by means of a sliding scale which would take cognizance of the variations in world parity in order to afford reasonable protection to the industry, I intend to support an embargo. 
I cannot understand why there should be such a wide divergence of opinion in this chamber on the sugar industry. Some honorable senators say that they believe that the industry should be protected, but that the protection at present afforded is too great. I cannot, however, understand the motive which impels an honorable senator to say that sugar should be admitted into this country duty free. 
I shall quote what an honorable senator said when a similar measure was before the Senate. 
The views expressed at that time are, I presume, still held by the honorable senator whom I propose to quote. At page 3047 of  Hansard,  volume 137,  Senator Johnston"  said - 
I favour the importation of sugar and bananas from Java, in exchange for our natural products. 
In reply to that definite statement.  Senator Dunn  immediately asked - 
Does the honorable senator favour the importation of black -grown 'bananas? 
Later, when asked whether he favoured the importation of black-grown sugar,  Senator Johnston  replied "Yes".  What, does that imply? That he is prepared to sacrifice the Australian sugar industry in order to sell to Java what, in his opinion, are the natural products of Western Australia. What are these natural products ? Since I have been a member of this chamber, I have heard a good deal from honorable senators concerning our  export  trade. There should be a clear definition of " natural products ". Practically all of our exports are natural products, and, with the exception of wool, are sold at an unnatural price. A home-consumption price is paid on practically every product, particularly butter, and wheat will soon be included, the balance being dumped on overseas markets at world's parity. When it is said that we should sell our natural products in Java, I should like to know what natural products we can sell in J ava at unnatural prices. . It is only logical to assume that the purchases made by Java would be at world's parity prices. I could readily understand  Senator Johnston's  attitude if we were able to arrange a bi-lateral agreement with Java. Western Australia could adopt such an attitude if the trade balance were in favour of Australia, because we could say that we were selling more to Java than Java was buying from us. We could buy our sugar from Java and Java could buy our natural products. That, however, is not the position. The value of our imports from Java in 1932-33, expressed in British currency, was £2,940,000 as against our exports, which were valued at £1,195,000. In other words, there was an adverse tradebalance against Australia of £1,745,000. In 1933-34, the value of the goods purchased from Java was £3,960,000, and the value of our exports to that country was £1,149,000, again showing an adverse trade balance against Australia for that year of £2,811,000. If a trade treaty were to be arranged with Java, the first question to be considered would be whether the trade balance was in our favour.  Senator Johnston,  who does noi worry about that, contends that we should buy sugar from Java in spite of the fact that the trade balance is nearly £3,000,000 against us. The purchase of sugar from Java in exchange for Australian produces  is impracticable. What would be the position if we allowed black-grown sugar to be imported to Australia. It is useless to say that we should be able to compete with Java; the difference in labour conditions would prevent that. I understand from those engaged in the sugar industry that the labour engaged in the production of sugar represents from 60 per cent, to 70 per cent, of the total. Is it suggested that the wages of those engaged in the Australian sugar industry are to come down to the level of the cheapest producing country in the world  I  If sugar were to be admitted free of duty the payment of reasonable wages to those engaged in the Australian industry could not be continued, and we should have to come down . to coolie rates. The wages earned by the men in the Australian industry are expended in purchasing goods produced in our secondary industries. 
If we are to allow Java sugar to be admitted duty free we must extend the privilege to Japan. There is no side-stepping that point, because Japan has a reasonable argument to submit to this Government in the matter of trade balances. Japan could easily say that as it purchases Australian wool we should take Japanese sugar. Japan produces  approximately  800,000 tons of sugar annually, which is greater than the whole of the Australian crop. An ordinary agricultural worker in Japan receives 66 cents, which is a little over 9d. a day. One honorable senator advocates the importation of black-grown sugar, and by implication favours the Australian worker engaged in sugar production being paid 9d. a day. 
I have already informed the Senate that if I could be shown how such duties can be applied effectively I would support them. Cuba, which is one of the world's largest sugar producers, is at present producing over 3,000,000 tons a year. If we agree to the importation of black-grown sugar at least some of our purchases would come from Cuba. The wage paid to Cuban cane-cutters in 1929 was 1 dollar 60 cen w a day, but in 1932 it was only 50 cents a day, or at the present rate of exchange less than ls. a day.  Senator Johns  on advocated the importation of sugar produced by coloured men earning wages  " such as I have mentioned. It is impossible to follow the logic of the honorable senator. 
I refer the honorable senator to page 3045 of  Hansard  when  Senator Daly  asked - 
Does the honorable senator suggest that the sugar fields should be worked by Javanese who would have to be fed on Australian bananas? 
The honorable senator replied - 
No; I am pledged to the maintenance of a White Australia policy. 
I ask honorable senators to realize the significance of those words. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  showed most conclusively that one of the best means to populate Northern Australia is hy means of the sugar industry. 
Yes. Is it not reasonable to assume that if as  Senator Johnston  advocates, the importation of black-grown sugar be permitted, the men in the Queensland sugar industry will also have to be paid ridiculously low rates. In such circumstances, the maintenance of a White Australia policy would appear to be impossible unless it is proposed to populate the north with white men working for approximately one shilling a day. In other words, if this industry were exposed to the competition of foreign, " blackgrown " sugar, the sugar-growers of Queensland would have no alternative but to evacuate the north and the industry would collapse. I venture to say that the evacuation of the north, quite apart from the serious consequences involved in the loss of the sugar industry, would be of the greatest concern to the Commonwealth Government. I propose now to refer to the sugar embargo and its effect on employment. In view of the interjection by  Senator Grant  it is interesting to read the opinion of Professor L. F. Giblin - 
If they abolish the sugar embargo, what were they going to do with all those persons engaged in the industry? 
That is a very practical question indeed. If the sugar industry were to be destroyed, the employment of the growers at present engaged in it would probably  be  the first problem that this Senate would be called upon to consider. Professor Giblin continued - 
To provide them with employment in the wheat and wool industries would mean that another 80,000.000 bushels of wheat, or a corresponding amount of wool, would have to be provided annually, and it was fantastic to think that anything approaching that amount could be produced by switching the bounty of £5,000,000 a year now paid to sugar over to either of these industries, as such action would only reduce their cost of production by 3 per cent, at the most. It would, therefore, be seen that it was very doubtful whether they could economically switch over the sugar-grower to other kinds of production and save anything for the public. 
That is the considered opinion of a gentleman who, I unhesitatingly assert, is one of the leading Australian economists.  His  opinion cannot lightly be waived aside, as one might waive aside the statement of a member of the Housewives Association or of the Henry George League. Professor Giblin's view must be considered in all its implications. Again, I repeat, if the sugar industry be destroyed, honorable senators must ask themselves what avenues of employment can be found for the persons at present engaged in it. That is the kernel of the nut: the sugar could be replaced in the far north only by  another special industry, and I cannot think of one that could take its place. I hope that honorable senators, when casting their votes, will take all these facts into consideration. 
There is another matter that I desire to stress. It is said that the price of sugar is too dear for the Australian consumer. I do not propose to quote the comparative prices of sugar grown overseas and the Australian product, because certain honorable senators are infinitely better informed than I am upon this subject; but I maintain that the assertion that the price of sugar is too dear in Australia naturally implies that the men engaged in the production of that commodity are making exorbitant profits. In reply to critics who hold that view, I ask : " Where are the sugar millionaires to-day?" There are none. Reference to the statistics relating to the sugar industry will show that an extraordinary percentage of the farms carry mortgages and, what is more, this number has been steadily increasing during the past three or four years. It does not appear, therefore, that exorbitant profits are being made. Growers do not plaster their farms with mortgages or liens for fun ; they are driven by financial adversity to secure credit in this way. If sugar is being sold at such an  exorbitant price that the grower is making wonderful profits,I fail to see why he does not clear his property of the mortgage. In 1932 in respect of 5,168 farms in the Mackay district, the crop liens totalled 3,102, representing. 60 per cent. of the farms in that district. In the next year the number, so far from diminishing, had increased to 3,186 and the percentage of the total was raised from 60 per cent. to 61 per cent. And yet, during this period, it was alleged that the growers were making' exorbitant profits. In 1934, the number of liens increased to 3,159 or 69 per cent. Again, I ask, if those growers were receiving such handsome profits and if the sugar-cane industry were such a lucrative occupation, why did. the number of mortgages on the farms increase? If these figures related to the wheat industry I could well understand it, because it has been subjected to the full effect of the world's low price level. If we were to accept the statements of the critics of the sugar industry, the growers, instead of having mortgages on their properties, should be able to sell out and retire after three years. 
I frankly confess that there is much in the technical processes of sugar production that I do not understand, but I am informed by gentlemen infinitely better versed in this business than I am, that sugar-growing is one of the most efficient industries in the Commonwealth. My informants have also told me that in regard to efficiency of production the Australian sugar industry occupies a prominent place among similar industries in other countries. If the industry is efficient, I cannot see that the protection is too high to-day. Admittedly, I do not favour the embargo, but I accept it because I can see no alternative method of reasonably protecting this industry. I cannot conceive of a set of conditions which would justify this Parliament in lowering the protective barriers and: throwing the Queensland sugar into competition with the black labour product grown overseas. The sugar industry is of national importance, and we must protect it. I sincerely hope that the Senate will unanimously assent to this legislation. 

 Senator CRAWFORD (Queensland) long this discussion, but honorable senators know my position in the sugar industry and will appreciate that if I refrain from making any observations my silence will be open to misunderstanding and probably misrepresentation. My association with the industry covers a number of years. It was 40 years on the 29th April last since I first set foot upon the sugar land of northern Queensland, which I subsequently purchased and in which I am still interested, although I have not very much to do with it now, the management of the business being carried on by my two elder sons'. Having listened to the three speeches in favour of the renewal of the sugar agreement, I shall have to tread very warily indeed in order not to repeat what has been said by those speakers, who, in my opinion, have explained the position of tie industry and the merits of this legislation clearly, effectively and most comprehensively. I notice, however, that no reference has been made to one important fact. In March, 1920, the Eight Honorable W. M. Hughes made a statement in the House of Representatives, and submitted the following resolution which, after discussion, was unanimously approved by another place :  - 
That the memorandum of the conference, held at Sydney, between representatives of the Queensland sugar industry and the Queensland and Commonwealth Governments, be printed. 
A few days later, on the 25th March,  Mr. Hughes  made a speech on the new agreement, in which he said - 
Pursuant to the decision of the House the other evening, the Government has taken steps to adjust the price and re-arrange the conditions, as from to-day. under which sugar is sold, and I desire to state for the information of honorable members and of the public exactly what has been done. I may preface my remarks by saying that, owing to the high price of foreign sugar, we have been losing £20,000 a day by retailing sugar at  3½d.  per lb.. 
Later, I shall again refer to that speech; but I have been asked by some honorable senators to furnish some details in regard to the profits made by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, Its relationship to the Queensland industry, and where and how its funds, which have been stated by the general manager of the company quite  recently to amount to £20,000,000, have been acquired. I was a member of the royal commission, appointed by the Fisher Government in 1911, to inquire into all branches and aspects of the Australian sugar industry, and to report to the Government. The commission made a very exhaustive investigation,  first  under the chairmanship of  Sir John  Gordon, a Judge of the Supreme Court of South Australia, and when his health failed, under the chairmanship of Professor Jethro Brown. One of the matters into which the commission inquired was the advisability or otherwise of nationalizing the refining business. Amongst the members of the commission was the Honorable Albert Hinchcliffe, M.L.C., of Queensland, a gentleman who was very well known at the time, and who is, I am sure, remembered by many as a member of the Queensland Labour party and a prominent union official.. At that time, as now, one of the planks of the Labour party's platform was the nationalization of industry. It -was hoped and expected that, as a result of the evidence tendered to the commission,  Mr. Hinchcliffe  would discover sufficient reasons for recommending the nationalization of the sugar refining business. But he did not do so. He was convinced that the refining business was carried on as honestly, efficiently and advantageously to Australia by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company as it would be if placed under government control. I well remember that at Labour conferences he was censured year after year for having failed to report in the way that a great many unionists thought he should have done. But he stood by his convictions, and refused to recant. 
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company has a fairly long history. In 1842  Mr. Edward  Knox, who  later became  Sir Edward  Knox, took over the management of a sugar refining business in Sydney. Some years later the Colonial Sugar Refining Company was established, with  Sir Edward  Knox at the head of the business. When he retired he was succeeded by his son, the late  Mr. E.  W. Knox. For nearly 90 years the business had for its head a member of the same family - father and son - and during those years it made steady progress. But its development has been more rapid during the last 35 years than at any earlier stage of its history. One reason is that the business of producing and refining sugar in Australia has steadily grown. The company also has a large business in Fiji as a producer of raw sugar, and in New Zealand as a refiner of sugar. The present production of its mills in Fiji is about 140,000 tons a year. After allowing for a few thousand tons required for local consumption in Fiji, that sugar is exported to either Great Britain or Canada, where it receives a preference of £5 a ton, or nearly 30s. a ton more than the preference accorded by those countries to Australian sugar. After the war, as is generally known, the price of sugar increased to heights previously unknown. The Colonial Sugar Refining Company obtained the world price for the 100,000 tons of sugar produced each year by it in Fiji. According to a speech recently made by  Sir Philip  Goldfinch, the present general manager, it also made a lot of money by speculating in sugar which was , bought and sold outside Australia. I remember well that, owing to the seizure of a few Dutch ships by the United States of America, after that country joined the Allies in the Great War, all other Dutch ships made for neutral ports as quickly as possible, with the result that no transport facilities were available for Java sugar. For some time it had been difficult to find vessels to transport sugar from Java, and stocks had been accumulating; but when the Dutch ships were no longer available, sugar could have been bought in Java, 100,000 tons at a time, for about £9 a ton. There were then no buyers for it. I have it, on the authority of the then Treasurer and Acting Prime Minister of the Commonwealth  (Mr. W. A. Watt),  that a proposal was submitted to him at the time that Australia should huy 100,000 tons of sugar for £1,000,000, which was below the cost of production.  Mr. Watt  thought that it would not be right for the Commonwealth to speculate in sugar, and did not accept the offer. Subsequently, the Commonwealth Government paid  over  £6,000.000 for a similar quantity of sugar. The facts are set out in an audited statement of the Commonwealth Government Sugar Control, covering accounts extending from the 19th July, 1915 to the 31st March, 1922. During that period the price of sugar varied from about £24 to £98 12s. 5d. a ton. It is said that a Chinese firm, which had no compunction whatever about speculating in sugar, seized the opportunity to make a profit of £15,000,000. The Colonial Sugar Refining Company also saw its opportunity, and seized it; and although its profits were not so great as those of the Chinese firm, they probably amounted to millions of pounds. The ownership of that money is one of the reasons- why the Colonial Sugar Refining Company is making such good profits to-day, and was able, recently, to transfer some millions of pounds from reserves to capital account. I have never been able to understand why it should be wrong to transfer money from reserves to capital account and issue shares equivalent to the amount transferred. The practice is so common that no notice is taken of it in most instances. Only a few weeks ago the Carlton and United Breweries transferred £950,000 from reserves to capital account and issued 950,000 bonus shares of £1 each, and no special notice was taken of the transaction. Why should it be right for a brewing company to do that, but entirely wrong for the Colonial Sugar Refining Company to do the same? Much is said regarding the price of shares in the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, but no comment is made when it is announced that shares in the Swan brewery, of a nominal value of 20s. are sold at £6 6s. Why should the Colonial Sugar Refining Company be singled out for attack, particularly as it gives employment to many thousands of Australians and is, after all, returning only a. reasonable profit to its shareholders? When tariff schedules are. under consideration we are told by some honorable senators that manufacturing businesses, cannot be conducted successfully in thic country because of the insufficiency of the market available to them. Yet, a business, which is acknowledged to be most efficiently managed, is attacked should it make only reasonable profits. The attack on the sugar industry has been mainly directed against the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. A good deal of propaganda against the sugar industry and the sugar agreement has been indulged in and when the industry has not replied to the attacks, its opponents claim that their case is unanswerable. Yet, when the industry buys newspaper space to refute the charges levelled against it, the same people say " Look at the money these people have to throw away." I shall give some particulars of the money expended by the sugar industry on advertisements during the last twelve months, and I am sure that honorable senators will be astonished when they know how small the amount was. For some years the average output of sugar from Queensland sugar mills has been about 600,000 tons per annum. An expenditure of Id. a ton on advertising would represent £2,400, but, as the industry has not expended £2,000 on advertising, during the last twelve months, it will be seen that the amount has been less than Id. a ton. I can imagine what would . be said of  the  industry if it did not do something to repel the persistent attacks made against it. Last Sunday, in looking through the Sydney  Sunday Sun,  I was struck by the display advertisements of firms which had furniture for sale. I calculated the space occupied by those advertisements, and found that it amounted to not less than seven full pages. I have been informed that a fullpage advertisement in the Sydney  Sunday Sun  costs £100. It is safe to say that the Sydney firms which pay for those advertisements cater for customers in New South Wales only, and honorable senators should note that no attack is being made upon them by outside interests. Therefore it is not necessary for them to spend money to counteract false propaganda ; yet I undertake to say that every one of those firms ; spends many hundreds of pounds yearly in advertising goods. The expenditure on advertising of even £2,000. a year spread over the 8,000 odd  sugar-growers  in Queensland represent approximately oneeighth of a penny a ton of cane. As this would be divided between millers and growers, the cost to each individual grower would be practically negligible. 
It might do that if drinks were cheap. 
I agree with  Senator Hardy's  contention that any one has a right to engage in the discussion of public questions. No one will deny that in recent years the price of sugar has become a burning question in the Commonwealth; but no one has a right, either individually or collectively, to bear false witness against a great industry, and against the interests of thousands of honest, hard working, struggling, frugal people, like those engaged in the sugar industry in Queensland. It should be noted also that the people who bear this false witness are, for the most part, paid by some other interests, which believe that they might  get something from the destruction of the Queensland sugar industry. 
Those who pay others to shoot a man are just as criminal as is the person who does the shooting. Let  Senator Brennan  consider that aspect of the subject. 
I turn now to examine the measure of protection given to other primary industries, upon which no attack has been made, in order to compare their position with that of the Queensland sugargrowers. I take first the dried fruits industry. A few years ago, I visited the Murray river settlement, where, I understand, the great bulk of our dried fruits is produced, and gained a fair amount of first-hand knowledge regarding the industry. 

 Senator Sir Walter Massy-Greene. Dried fruits are also produced in Western Australia. 
I have no knowledge of the industry in that State, so I cannot say anything about it. At. the present time there is an import duty of £56 a ton on dried fruits. I dare say that  Senator Johnston  would prefer an import duty of that magnitude to an embargo, though the word " embargo " is not mentioned in the bill. 
It does provide for an embargo against importations, but the word " embargo " is not used. When the sugar industry learned, some years ago, that the Government had practically decided not to continue the embargo an urgent request was mads for increased protection, which, however, was not granted. The recommendation by the Tariff Board that a protective duty be not imposed, was supported by faked figures. I have retailed to the Senate the circumstances connected with that recommendation, so I shall not repeat the story this afternoon. Those engaged in the production of canned fruits enjoy protection equal to an ad valorem duty of 140 per cent. Canned and dried fruits, it should be noted, are in competition with the products of white labour countries, whereas sugar is sold in the world's market in competition with countries employing coloured labour. Our hopgrowers have a protective duty of ls. per lb. or £112 a ton, and wine is protected by import duties of from 18s. to 38s. a gallon. A few days ago I read in a report issued by the wine industry of Australia that the f.o.b. value of Australian wine for export is about 4s. a gallon. I presume that the best of our still wine is exported. A great deal of wine, much inferior to that which is exported, is held for the Australian market; yet that industry enjoys a duty of 18s. a gallon, which would be equal to an ad valorem duty of 500 to 600 per cent. 
We have been told that the cattle industry receives no protection. That statement is not strictly accurate, because there is an import duty of 6d. per lb. on tinned meats, and a duty of 3d. per lb. on meat preserved by cold process. Butter and cheese producers also are protected bv an import duty of 7d. per lb. against foreign imports, and 6d. per lb. on butter and cheese imported from New Zealand. We all remember the circumstances in  which  those duties were imposed. The previous duty of 3d. per lb. was doubled against New Zealand, a sister dominion, where labour conditions in the industry are almost identical with those obtaining in Australia. I wish it to be understood that I am not speaking in a spirit hostile :o other Australian industries, because I am not a geographical protectionist. 
Nor am I, I hope, a person with a limited vision. In this regard I am reminded of a story attributed to  President  Lincoln about a farmer who went out one night to shoot opossums. After exhausting the whole of his ammunition in an endeavour to bring down what he took to be an opossum on the topmost branch of a tall tree, he discovered that he had really been firing at an insect on his eyelash ! I am afraid that the vision of some of our geographical protectionists is just about as good as that of the farmer in that story. 
I turn now to consider the protection given to another Australian industry, about which, I confess, I do not know a great deal, namely, motor-body building. In order to obtain some accurate information, I made inquiries as to the cost of motor cars with Australian bodies, and I also carefully studied a number of American publications with illustrations and prices of motor cars with Fisher bodies, and I say, without hesitation, that the prices for motor cars with Australian bodies are from two or three times higher than prices for American cars with American bodies. I repeat that I am not criticizing adversely the Australian motor-body building industry. It is absurd to talk about defending this country, unless we are prepared to support all legislative proposals designed to enable us to produce in Australia the whole of our requirements for defence. In these days of modern transport, the mechanization of our defence forces is a first essential, so any proposal to give adequate protection to the motor-body building industry should have our approval. 
For the reasons given, I ask honorable senators, when they are considering the protection afforded to the Australian sugar industry, to keep in mind also the protection that is given to industries in other States. That is all that the Queensland sugar industry asks of members of this. Parliament.. 
In this discussion we have heard a good deal about the cost of sugar to Australian consumers. Intimately associated with the production of sugar is the settlement of the fertile lands in our tropical latitudes. Professor Giblin estimates that the excess cost of Australian sugar as compared with the. cost of foreign sugar admitted duty free is, in round figures, £5,000,000 a year Professor Brigden, the Director of the Queensland Bureau of Industry who, I think, is as good an authority as Professor Giblin, estimates the excess cost at £4,000,000 a year. However, I shall accept Professor Giblin's figures for the purpose of my argument. Of that amount Queensland pays £700,000 for sugar consumed in Queensland itself. It also contributes £400,000 towards the grants made by the Commonwealth Parliament to the smaller States, and in addition, as has already been pointed out, Queensland purchases from the other States protected commodities to the value of £16,000,000 a year. Even freetrade advocates will admit that the excess price of those commodities, as compared with the landed cost of similar goods imported duty free, would be about 25 per cent. That would mean that in. purchasing £16,000,000 worth of protected goods from other States, Queensland pays £4,000,000, which it would not have to pay were such goods not protected. Adding the excess cost of these goods to the £400,000 which that State contributes to the grants to smaller States and to the £700,000 which Queenslanders themselves pay for sugar, Queensland pays a cost of £5,100,000 directly and indirectly to protect the industries of other States, compared with £5,000,000 which is the estimated excess cost of protected sugar to people living in the southern States. Thus, Queenslanders pay more to assist southern industries than southerners do to maintain this protection to the sugar industry. 
Certainly there are. The head of the Bureau of Industry in Queensland, Professor Brigden, who is one of Australia's foremost economists- 
-I think it will be admitted that economists as a rule had marked freetrade tendencies a few years ago, but that this tendency is gradually being corrected. On that point I refer honorable senators to a booklet recently published by Professor Copland under the heading " Is our tariff a failure?" in which he argues most convincingly that our tariff has not failed. All honorable senators will agree that the tropical areas of Australia should be settled, and that so long as they remain unsettled they will constitute a national danger. That point was stressed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  this morning. I point out that out of a population of 240,000 people in tropical Queensland, 96,000 are under 21 years of age. Therefore it is clear that we have now laid the basis of a permanent population in tropical Queensland, and that the present number will, in the ordinary course of events, steadily increase, provided that the industries already established in those areas are given fair consideration and encouraged to expand. The last census report showed the populations of cities, towns, and shires in centres in which the sugar industry is carried on to be - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

I point out that, whilst the population of the Commonwealth increased during the last intercensal periodby 21.94 per cent. the population of the sugar areas from Mossman to Mackay increased by 87. 5 per cent. The Mackay district, which includes the city of Mackay and the shires of Mirani, Pioneer and Sarina, depends almost entirely upon this industry and produces about 100,000 tons of sugar annually. Therefore, in that district, in which the population totals . 28,113, every three and a half tons of sugar directly supports one person. The moneycirculated by the industry is spent with the local tradespeople, who send it to other centres to pay for manufactured goods, and it is turned over five or six times, thus supporting a great number of people. Assuming that the production of four tons of sugar - taking the figure for the industry as a whole - provides a livelihood for one person the industry practically supports no less than 150,000 people in Queensland. 
Queensland spends a little more with the southern States than the southern, States spend with Queensland, so the transaction is about square. In passing I am reminded that when union advocates appear before a certain judge in the southern States and point out what is done in the sugar industry under awards of the Queensland Arbitration Court, this judge always cackles, " Yes, we pay for that ". 
Undoubtedly there are a number of Italians in Queensland, many of whom are engaged in the sugar industry. Most of these have "bought sugar farms previously owned by Britishers, who have sold out because of the persistent agitation in the southern States against this industry. So virulent has been that agitation that Britishers still engaged in the industry pursue their business in fear and trembling. 
It is much more difficult for Italians to obtain employment than it is for Britishers. The Italians' nationality and language are undoubtedly handicaps to them when seeking employment. But these men have a veritable passion to possess farms of their own. They are good farmers and good settlers. Yet, this agitation persists against the industry. 
Sena tor CRAWFORD. - Nevertheless, it is being continued and the newspapers are always prepared to give space to contributors who write in that strain, whilst the industry has to pay for space in those same papers to reply to such attacks. Many of the British cane-farmers are anxious regarding the future of the industry and these are selling out gradually to Italians'. At the present time the industry is practically on the bread line; I do not hesitate to make that statement. I have had long experience in this industry and if the present price of sugar were reduced I certainly would not attempt to carry on. The prices of Australian sugar, which is grown and handled by white labour, is consistently compared with the prices of sugar grown in cheap labour countries. I heard it said to-day that certain wages were paid in the industry in Cuba, but the figures given were far in excess of what I know to be correct. I point out that in recent years the ordinary labourer in the industry in Cuba receives his food and five cents or 2½d. a day and that the sugar-producing companies in that country have lost up to 2,250,000 dollars in a single year. Do honorable senators wish to see a similar condition established in the sugar industry in Australia? I ask honorable senators who represent other States when they are considering this great Queensland industry, to remember the pledge given to Queensland when it agreed to federate, that its sugar industry would be given the adequate protection which is afforded to various industries in other States. Let us reciprocate in these matters honestly and fairly. 
That question has been answered over and over again. 
I have here a table showing how the retail price paid for sugar is distributed among those engaged in its production, transport and handling - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

.- There has been so much propaganda against the renewal of the Sugar Agreement, particularly in Victoria, that many persons think that the Commonwealth 
Government is attempting to work some swindle upon the Australian people. If the speech delivered by the Minister in moving the second-reading of the bill were circulated in pamphlet form, a good deal of misconception would be removed. 
But many of those who oppose the renewal of the agreement do not read that publication. The principal critics are members of well-known freetrade organizations, who would deny this and other industries any form of protection. They fail to realize that it is the policy of Australia to provide a reasonable standard of living for its people, and that, in order to do so, protection must be afforded to our industries. Many of our primary and all of our secondary industries of importance, are protected in one form or another. I intend to support the bill, because it will ensure stability in the industry for five years and so establish an assured home market for this indispensable commodity. The maintenance of the sugar industry provides the power to purchase the products of many southern secondary industries to an amount exceeding £6,000,000 a year. Despite the industry's share in keeping factories in operation, there are some who desire the removal of the embargo on overseas cane grown by coloured labour. Australia is the only country in the world which grows cane sugar with white labour. Overseas competition would eventually result in the collapse of the industry, throwing thousands out of employment, not only in Queensland, but also in the southern States, particularly Victoria. Further, if the industry were destroyed as the outcome of the nonrenewal of the agreement, Queensland would ask the Commonwealth for an annual grant of perhaps £2,000,000 or more to stabilize its finances. Each year, Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania ask for and receive varying amounts for a similar purpose. Apart from the fact that the Australian sugar industry supports our secondary industries, we have to consider it from a national aspect. I understand that, in the tropical areas of Western Australia, there are 6,000 white persons, in the Northern Territory 5,000 and in Queensland 172,000. The majority of the white settlers in northern Queensland are directly or indirectly dependent upon the industry. The defence of Australia and the maintenance of the Australian sugar industry are more closely associated than some persons imagine. Were this large area now used for the production of sugar allowed to become depopulated, the position would be serious. There is a virile population, including many sturdy children, in these areas and on the neighbouring fertile Atherton Tableland, which is as extensive as the whole of the arable lands of Tasmania, these settlers are  peaceful  garrisoning that portion of the Commonwealth for the benefit of the whole of the Australian people. So long as this industry is maintained and additional efforts are made to induce further settlement, we cannot expect very strong opposition' to our White Australia policy from other nations. It is always understood that occupied land acts as a deterrent to an invader. Current international events emphasize the need to develop our sparsely populated territories, and, particularly productive areas. For broad national reasons, apart from any other considerations, I support the bill. 
I can assure  Senator Brand  that the propaganda of which he speaks in opposition to the renewal of the Sugar Agreement is by no means confined to Victoria. I, like other honorable senators from New -South Wales and also those from the other States, have for a long time been bombarded with the literature circulated by various organizations in the Commonwealth. In view of the valuable and interesting contributions to the debate, I feel that I can hardly introduce any new matter, yet I feel that I cannot record a silent vote in support of this measure. I intend to support the bill and I urge other honorable senators to do so on broad national lines. 
That is so. That reminds me of an incident, which occurred in the Legislative Council of New South Wales, when a fluent debater of Hibernian extraction said, " I have  listened with great pleasure to the remarks of the honorable gentleman who has spoken in favour of this measure, but I have also listened with no little misgiving to the ominous silence of those who have said nothing". Possibly, the silence may be ominous in this instance, but those contemplating opposition should reconsider their attitude. I intend to support the bill on national grounds, and particularly for the reasons mentioned by  Senator Brand.  It  is  of great concern to Australia that the settlement of the tropical portions of Queensland should not only be maintained, but also increased to' the fullest possible extent. Like  Senator Hardy,  I do not altogether agree with some of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  but I congratulate that honorable senator upon the speech which he delivered in support of the industry. He showed the value of the industry to Australia,' and proved that by supporting it we are assisting the effective settlement of the north-eastern portion of the Commonwealth. Is it likely that we shall record a vote which may tend to destroy settlement in this important part of Australia ? "What a sorry spectacle it would be for the nation if this industry and the prosperity which it has brought were destroyed. We should encourage those men and women who are doing such splendid pioneering work and assisting to build up the nation. I ask the Senate to support this measure, and, by doing so, to send a message to those engaged in the industry that Australia appreciates their work and will not attempt to destroy it or interfere with the prosperity which they are entitled, to enjoy. Those who complain of the retail price of sugar should remember that, in maintaining this industry we are assisting the defence of Australia. The Leader of the Opposition quoted interesting figures showing the wonderful growth of population which has taken place on the sugar lands. Those honorable senators who contemplate opposing the bill should pause before doing so and  dis.regard  whatever pressure has been brought to bear by those with a restricted vision. We should invite them to consider the future of these tropical districts and to assist to make Australia secure. I support the bill. 
. Like many other southerners, I was for some years under a misapprehension regarding the production of sugar in Australia. About ten years ago I made an extended visit to northern Queensland, where I inspected a good deal of the country on which sugar is produced. I visited a number of the mills and met many of the cane-growers and their children. Propaganda in. opposition to the industry has been almost continuously directed to us since I was first elected to this chamber nine years ago, but I am quite convinced that a great deal of it defeats its own purpose. In many instances it contains inaccuracies and statements which are grossly exaggerated. I shall support the bill, because the industry must have some security. Those opposed to its maintenance have never offered constructive criticism, and if effect were given to the policy which they support it would mean ruin to thousands of good Australians settled in the north. During the Great War I had the honour and privilege of serving with Queenslanders - I was never with men from my own State. I found these Queenslanders fine Australians, and better soldiers no one could wish to meet. I visited Queensland last year - two years ago I travelled as far north as Cairns - and I was particularly impressed with the health and virility of the children. I have lived in Africa, and I have been in other tropical countries, but I have never seen finer youngsters than those whom I met in northern Queensland. Apparently the children in northern Queensland do not wilt owing to the effect of the intense heat like the children in other tropical countries; the men and women in that part are magnificent specimens. On that account, and also because of the necessity for populating this country, the sugar industry is well worth while. I strongly deprecate the amount of unfair and unjust propaganda against the sugar' industry which has been flooding the Southern States, and particularly Tasmania, and also the attitude adopted by certain sections of the press towards this agreement. Much of this unreasonably antagonistic literature is not even based on facts. I refer particularly to a pamphlet which I received recently, copies of which, I think, were sent to every municipality in Tasmania. It emanated from Victoria but was written by a South Australian; and it was a most amazing document by reason of the number of inaccuracies that it contained. Unfortunately many readers would not be aware of the facts, but anybody conversant with the position would at once recognize the information to be a wilful distortion of the position. The sugar-growers of Queensland, in having to combat propaganda of this character, have my sympathy. 
I am not concerned with that aspect. I know that I could analyze a number of his assertions and prove that they had no regard for the truth. I support the bill. 
I have been keenly waiting for  Senator Johnston,  who is the last surviving opponent in this chamber of the sugar industry to defend his attitude, which is that of a number of good but misguided Western Australians; but apparently he has become shy lately. Perhaps he contemplates voting for this measure. If so, there is a possibility of unanimity at last being achieved in the Senate; every honorable senator will be voting solidly in favour of this national agreement. Perhaps  Senator Johnston  will change his mind- 
Such stubbornness is not a great attribute to possess, because if persuasive and irrefutable argument is laid before a person, the honorable senator should be intelligent enough to be able to change his mind. I consider that supporters of the sugar agreement can produce intelligent argument to convince  Senator Johnston  that the agreement is unassailable. 
I shall speak to the honorable senator as charmingly as I can in an endeavour, if only by my manner, to win him to my side. In participating in this discussion upon the sugar agreement I propose to state the position from the workers viewpoint.  Senator Johnston  is a worker, I know. Front my knowledge of Western Australia he has done splendid work for that State, but when I refer to workers generally  I  do not include  Senator Johnston  in that category. In approaching the discussion from the angle of the workers I am actuated by a desire to dispel a misunderstanding which has been created among the workers of certain other States by misleading propaganda. We do not deny that opponents of the sugar agreement have been most energetic. 
-I am speaking of the sugar industry, not of the seamen. So much propaganda has been launched against the sugar industry that even some of the workers have been misled, and they have been persuaded to regard this industry as something parasitical. Even in Western Australia - that land of sunshine and secessionists - a number of workers have been grossly misinformed upon this matter. Therefore, I consider that it is essential to endeavour to explain the attitude of the workers, who are anxious to change the economic system in order to bring about stability, and guarantee a livelihood to every one. Stabilization, in my opinion, is a splendid principle. I have my own opinions of what should be done economically and politically, and I assert that stabilization is a step in the right direction towards the full and complete organization of our economic structure in the interests of the nation. Therefore the organized workers of Australia should support to the utmost any industry that has been thoroughly organized and stabilized. I do not maintain for one moment that the mere stabilization of an industry under present condition is a panacea for the economic troubles  of Australia; but I do believe that it is desirable that attempts should be made in the various industries to stabilize prices and payments to the various producers engaged in them. That is in line with that evolutionary development to which  Senator, Hardy  referred yesterday in regard to the payment of pensions to " burnt-out " soldiers. Those persons who are foolish enough to attack or impede this movement, I place in the category of troglodytes - mental cavedwellers who do not understand the need for keeping pace with social and economic evolution. In what way will the position of the workers of Australia be improved by a reduction of the price of sugar, such as has been agitated for by certain honorable senators? I believe that an amendment was moved in the House of Representatives, and may be moved in this chamber, with the object of effecting such a reduction. It is part of the Marxian doctrine - now I am addressing the students of economics - that the workers are exploited as producers, and that there is practically^ no exploitation in the realm of distribution. The Marxian school contends that, at all times, it is essential to organize business in such a way as to increase the purchasing power of the workers; this will offset any efforts which may be made to increase prices, and will thereby maintain a decent standard of living. According to this theory, if an effort is made to increase prices, it is essential for us thoroughly and completely to organize all production in order to offset this tendency. In the final analysis, however, it is contended that it is not in the area of distribution that the workers are exploited, but in that of production. However, I dp not propose to follow out that argument, which is a technical one advanced by students of the Marxian school, who state that the activities of the workers' should be concentrated on the maintenance of their purchasing power; and that they should not be continually worried in regard to prices. 
Many of those persons who seek to cause bitterness among the workers towards the sugar industry contend that the purchasing power of the employees in the sugar industry is grossly inflated. This propaganda has been circulated throughout Australia with the intention of causing a division in the ranks of the workers, by suggesting to them that, because in Queensland the workers are receiving a greater measure of purchasing power through high wages, there is a secondary exploitation of workers in other parts of Australia. This propaganda has been employed by opponents of the sugar industry to win the support of workers in other States for a campaign to effect a reduction of the price of sugar. But the workers of Queensland must submit to the awards of the Arbitration Court; they appeal to properly-constituted tribunals, which formulate awards in accordance with the evidence submitted. If all the facts of the case are taken into consideration, it must be admitted that the workers of Queensland are not participating in a secondary exploitation of the other workers of Australia. I made it my business to interview the leader of one of the greatest organizations in Queensland, and discuss with him the sugar industry iii the light of this statement. After a full discussion of the facts we came to the conclusion that the workers are not living in the lap of luxury, as has been contended by so many of the opponents of the sugar industry. Only last year the Arbitration Court of Queensland heard an appeal on behalf of the employees of the sugar industry, and, after argument, granted an increase of 4s. to mill hands; but I ani informed that it was impossible to grant an increase to the cutters, because the industry could not bear this additional burden. In ' spite of that fact, many people continue to maintain that the workers in the sugar industry, and the growers themselves, are receiving unduly high returns, because of the fixed price of sugar, and that there is a secondary exploitation of workers in other States. I am informed that the cutters receive 7d. a ton less to-day than when sugar was £30 6s. 8d. a ton. If that is so, the contention that, the price of sugar is too high is certainly refuted. I have collected some information about wages from  Mr. Fallon,  who has the evidence submitted to the Arbitration Court, when application was being made for a variation of the sugar workers' award. Spencer Lewis Johnson, a mill hand of Babinda, gave evidence in regard to the wages that he received. The following table shows his income for each of six years: - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

The figures include the slack season. A man who works in a district where the sun is so hot that it nearly cooks his liver is not overpaid at the rates shown. I cannot understand how any person can say that the price of sugar is high as a result of the workers in the industry receiving excessive wages. Another man who gave evidence was J. MacDonald, a returned soldier, who, during the slack season worked as a general labourer, effecting repairs to trucks. He told the court that his wages were - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_28_1.jpg"></graphic>

When repairing trucks he received11s. a week more than as a cane-cutter.  His  income included payment for overtime two Sundays out of three. I give these facts in the hope that they will offset some of the absurd statements of those who speak of the excessive wages paid to workers in the sugar industry.  Mr. A.  R. Rex gave evidence on behalf of the employers. It may be well if I explain that, whilst Queenslanders of all political parties are unanimous in regard to the sugar agreement, there are times when the various sections of the industry are opposed in the courts. There is a certain amount of economic antagonism between the workers, who are trying to get as much as possible for their labour, and the employers, who wish to keep their profits at what they claim to be a reasonably high level.  Mr. Rex  told the court that he had received £192 6s. during the year. According to  Mr. Fallon,  a sugar boiler is paid £6 10s. a week. In the north of Queensland a sugar boiler works for about 22 weeks in a year. An income of £6 10s. a week for 22 weeks in a year surely is not excessive. There is no certainty that a man engaged in this seasonal occupation will receive other employment during the rest of the year, and yet opponents of the industry continue to speak of the wonderful time enjoyed by the parasitical workers in the sugar industry! It was admitted by  Mr. Dutton  on behalf of the employers that the cutters were not well paid.  Mr. Young,  who represented the fruit-growers at the inquiry, also agreed that they were not paid more than they earned. If honorable senators who think that these men are overpaid were to see them at work in the cane-fields, they would quickly admit that, far from being overpaid, they are grossly underpaid. The work demands great physical strength. Instead of the price of sugar being decreased on the ground that the workers in the industry are overpaid, the workers should receive more, even if it means a higher price for the commodity which they produce. ' Last year the growers of sugar received £15 10s. 9d. a ton for their product - a price which does not make possible any considerable increase of wages to their employees. I appeal to  Senator Johnston,  who has always advocated the claims of the primary producer, to remember that this agreement affects a number of primary producers who are experiencing great difficulty in meeting their commitments. Senators Collings and Hardy have shown that the number of liens and mortgages has increased, and that the number of growers of sugar who pay taxes to the Queensland Government has decreased. Such a valiant champion of the primary producers as  Senator Johnston  undoubtedly is, should vote for this agreement. 
A good deal has been said about the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. Many Labour supporters outside Queensland are inclined to think that those who support the sugar agreement support the Colonial Sugar Refining Company also. So far as the Labour party is concerned, that company stands in exactly the same position as does any other company. It is strange, indeed, that so many advocates of private enterprise should be so antagonistic to this company. They have no objection to a brewing company paying a dividend of 10 per cent, or 12 per cent., but they are loud in their condemnation of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company if it does the same. When it wa3 announced recently in the press that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company had taken action to reduce the wages of some of its employees, I was greatly incensed, because, as a member of the Labour party, I am opposed to any reduction of wages. It is particularly hard that a rich company like this ono should attempt to take a few shillings from its employees. Unfortunately, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company is used as a stalking horse to defeat the sugar agreement. According to its latest balance-sheet that company has the following assets in Australia : - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_29_9.jpg"></graphic>

The Sugar Inquiry Committee, which investigated the affairs of this company in 1931, reported that its Australian profits were £609,000 per annum, and that nothing had happened since then to increase its profits. The Jd. per lb., by which the price of sugar was lowered in 1933, reduced the revenue of the company by £75,000 per annum. If that be true, I ' shall shed no tears of sympathy for such a rich company; but I do say that the opponents of the sugar industry have no right to attempt to defeat the sugar agreement by using arguments which have relation only to the company. But even if the profits of the company on its Australian transaction are £609,000 per annum, that amount represents. 6 per cent, profit on its capital, and is reducible by taxation by approximately £135,000 a year, leaving a final net return of about £474,000 a year, or practically 5 per cent, on the company's capital. As has been mentioned, the company has assets in Fiji and New Zealand. According to its balance-sheet, those assets are valued at £3,396,000, made up as under - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_29_10.jpg"></graphic>

Last year the company's entire profits amounted to £852,000 after paying taxes. If the Australian final net profit of £474,000 is deducted from that amount a final net profit of £378,000 on its foreign transactions is arrived at. That represents a profit of nearly 11 per cent, on the related capital of £3,396,000. The conclusion arrived at by the committee was that the company's Australian final net profit is 5 per cent, and its external profit 11 per cent. When a company is making too much profit, it should be put on the same footing as individuals in. regard to income tax, and be forced to pay a graduated income .tax. The Opposition would support the Government in any effort it might make to extract a little more in taxes from this wealthy company. But our opponents endeavour to connect the Colonial Sugar Refining Company with the sugar agreement and by so doing seek to destroy the living standards that have been established in Queensland. That is what we, on this side, have to fight against. 
That is so, but opponents of the agreement use that argument as propaganda against it. They point to the huge profits which the Colonial Sugar Refining Company has made and pay no attention to the position of the hard-working employees of the industry in Queensland. They attack the agreement because, forsooth, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company is making profits ! Those who have studied the position know, of course, that large profits are made by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company from its activities abroad. The company practically owns the whole of the sugar produced in Fiji where it is refined and sold at remunerative prices in New Zealand. The total output in Fiji is about 130,000 tons per annum, and it should be borne in mind that the whole of it is produced by cheap, black labour^ I hope that  Senator Johnston  is listening, because I feel sure that he would not like to see cheap, black labour introduced into Australia. 
Nor, I hope, would he like to see our White Australia policy endangered by subjecting any Australian industry to  the  unfair competition of countries producing similar products under cheap black labour conditions. 
I am very glad that I am not a nigger, though I admit that there are some very fine characters among the negro populations of the world. In advocating the maintenance of a White Australia policy, we cast no aspersions upon the coloured races on moral grounds. All we' say is that black labour in industry is a definite menace to the living standards of the white race and no encouragement should bc given to proposals likely to endanger our White Australia policy. 
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company by efficient organization is able to earn large profits from its operations. But it also gets a very generous measure of tariff protection in the British market. Personally, I would like to see workers in the Queensland sugar industry obtaining a larger share of the profits from the Australian operations of the company. The Colonial Sugar Refining Company enjoys a preference in the United Kingdom market of £6 15s. a ton on about two-thirds of its output, and £3 15s. a ton on the balance. This represents an average of about £5 10s. a ton on 130,000 tons, or an advantage of £715,000 above the world's free market price, which is admittedly well below the cost of production in black labour countries. But, when £5 10s. a ton average benefit from the British preferential tariff is added to the world's price the total net return, with exchange, is " about £10 or £11 a ton, which gives the Colonial Sugar Refining 
Company a net profit of about £2 10s. a ton in Fiji. This is more than the company  earns  in Australia. The company's profit on refining and distribution in Australia - an entirely different phase of the sugar business - 'lias been 14s. 9d. a ton or one-twelfth of a penny per lb. since 1915, when the first sugar agreement was made by  Mr. Hughes  on behalf of the Commonwealth and the late  Mr. Ryan  on behalf of the Queensland Government. Honorable senators who have in mind the £5,850,000 of bonus shares distributed last year should remember that during and for two years after the war, and also in 1923 and 1924 the company made tremendous profits from buying cheap black grown sugar and selling it at exceedingly high prices. Some of these profits were distributed as dividends, but a considerable sum was placed in various reserve funds. Thus, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company is doing very well indeed. I am sure that all honorable senators would like to have a few thousand shares in the concern. If honorable gentlemen opposite were in the happy position of drawing dividends from shares in this company, there would be no trouble about the agreement, because everybody would be satisfied. Possibly the day will come when, by a radical alteration of our economic and financial system, there will be benefits for all, and none shall endure the pangs of hunger. 
The Labour party says that the time has come when this sort of thing must cease; that instead of huge sums going to the pockets of those who do no useful work in the community - the people who are merely coupon clippers - a greater proportion of the wealth that is produced shall go into the pockets of the people. It must be remembered, however, that the millions of pounds which the Colonial Sugar Refining Company made during and immediately after the war did not all come from its Australian business, but it is unfair that tory governments should have allowed the company to escape the taxes which should have been levied upon its huge total of undistributed profits. 
 Mr Lang  made a number of statements concerning it, and I have no doubt that much of what he said was true. What I am objecting to is that workers, mill-hands and sugargrowers should be in any way harmed by the propaganda that has been issued in opposition to the agreement. The people who are engaged in this stabilized industry play an important part in the defence of Australia. They are in effective occupation of the Queensland tropical belt, and should not be adversely affected economically by interested opposition to the renewal of the agreement. According to figures supplied by the Commissioner of Taxation, of the total profits made by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company 57 per cent. is earned from its major operations in Australia, and 43 per cent. is earned from its minor operations outside the Commonwealth. In Australia the company produces 140,000 tons of raw sugar each year at its mills, and refines and distributes 320,000 tons. In Fiji it produces 130,000 tons of sugar, employing cheap black labour, and refines85,000 tons for sale to New Zealand. 
In examining the operations of the company I have endeavoured to distinguish between its profits made in Australia, and profits made in Fiji, and I repeat that it is grossly unfair that the Queensland sugar industry should be in any way affected by criticism of the agreement on the ground merely that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company is making such huge profits from its operations. I hope that as a result of what I have said  Senator Johnston  will be persuaded to vote with us in favour of a renewal of the agreement.It has been urged that action to renew the agreement has been taken too early. On that point I remind the Senate that the British Government has intimated its intention to give eighteen months' notice to the dominions and colonial possessions of any proposed alteration of the measure of preference given in the British market. Another argument - it was also employed during the discussion of the Ottawa agreement - is that it would be grossly unfair to attempt to alter any of the terms of the agreement, because the parties to it had taken all relevant factors into consideration. 
The honorable senator will no doubt recall that when the Ottawa agreement was under discussion certain honorable senators urged that it was competent for the Senate to alter the schedule without in any way interfering with the general form of the agreement itself. Others contended that it was not competent for Parliament to alter any of the terms of a document of that nature. This agreement is fair, particularly when we realize that the future for sugar is dark; there is no immediate possibility of an increase of the world's price. All sugar exported at world parity affects the growers as a whole, their last payment, as I pointed out, being £15 10s. 9d. a ton. Owing to the influences of economic nationalism, every country to-day is seeking to provide its own primary products, and some are producing sugar. According to F. O. Licht, it is estimated that the free market for sugar had dropped from 5,900,000 tons in 1928-29 to 3,100,000 in 1933-34. It has now to be considered whether the market promises to expand and whether the price is likely to increase in the near future. So far as I can see, no such prospects exist. I would like to see the world price increased, because it would help to relieve of heavy burdens many people engaged in this industry in northern Queensland. However, efforts are being made by certain countries at. the moment to increase the world price. 
I am suggesting that the remuneration of those engaged in the sugar industry should be increased, because many of these people at the present time are being forced into the hands of the money lenders. I remind the honorable senator that I opposed the reduction of the Australian homeconsumption price from 4½d. to 4d. per lb. because that reduction meant an aggregate loss to the industry of £1,250,000. However, I realize that so long as the present Government remains in power there can be very  little  hope of having the price increased again to 4£d. per lb. I have no doubt that the industry has had to fight very hard to get the present price of 4d. ratified. Many growers are not receiving sufficient to meet their commitments; they cannot get an income of the proportions to which they are entitled because the amount being returned to the industry as a whole is insufficient. The Chadbourne agreement was signed by a number of countries, including Australia, in an endeavour to raise the world price of sugar, and I understand that another similar attempt is to be made shortly. ' If such an increase is made, it will add considerably to the wealth of Queensland and Australia generally. 
Tha"t is so, in which case this country would suffer considerably. 
If such an argument is justified, the growers could justly claim that we should immediately increase the price, because every reduction of the world price during recent years has meant a loss to them. Reverting to the influences of economic nationalism, I point, out that Great Britain has established a beet-sugar industry, in which eighteen factories are now operating, catering for 46,000 growers of sugar beet. A few years ago this industry did not exist in that country. 
The actual market value of the produce of these eighteen factories is only 50 per cent, of the amount paid by the British Government in subsidizing the industry, that subsidy, I understand-, being about £6,000,000. In France, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Russia and other European countries attempts are being made to increase the production of beet sugar. If these countries continue such a policy they will very soon, as  Mr. John  Lawson, M.P., and ex-Senator 
Elliott pointed out, become a menace to Australian primary production. On his return from a visit to Russia recently,  Mr. Lawson  stated that primary produc-tion  in Russia is progressing so rapidly that very soon the increased volume of its exports will seriously affect the markets now open to Australian primary producers, and Australian producers will be thrown back upon our own internal resources. In view of these facts, I ask  Senator Johnston,  " Does he really believe that the price fixed for sugar in this agreement is too high?" I have endeavoured to place before honorable senators the policy of the Labour party so far ah the protection of the sugar industry is concerned, and I have attempted sincerely to appeal not only to the heart but to the mind of  -Senator Johnston,  who, I hope, will stand, as is done in the Salvation Army, and bear testimony in this chamber to his conversion to the belief that this agreement offers an effective means of preserving the welfare of a rationalized and stabilized industry. 
I feel sure that  Senator Johnston  will see the error of his ways in this matter and that, as a genuine supporter of the principles of  the United Country party, he will realize that, by supporting this efficient and stabilized industry, he will bear a torch among the primary producers of Western Australia, showing them that if the example of those engaged in the sugar industry be followed, every primary producing ind ustry in Australia can be stabilized and rendered most efficient. If he does that, he will render a real service to the primary producers of this country ; he will show them how they can overcome economic difficulties and that the way is wide open for a proper and efficient organization of all industry. He can show, if he will, it is unwise and foolish for any intelligent citizen to criticize adversely the sugar industry as it exists to-day; rather should other primary industries take a lesson from it and complete their organization so that every one engaged in them will receive full and sufficient return for his labours. If  Senator Johnston  follows this advice 
I shall come to the conclusion that he has seen the light and at last is prepared to do something of permanent value to primary production in Australia. 
.   -Sometimes,  when one listens to speeches in this chamber, one is impressed with a sense of unreality; I have had that feeling very clearly this afternoon. I do not object to Queensland senators, or any other senators, standing up for the sugar or any other industry. It is fair to admit that there are two points of view to this matter, but, while one point of view should be presented, one does not expect to sit in this chamber for hours and hear nothing of the converse side. From what we have heard this afternoon, we might be pardoned if we assumed that the whole of the defence of Australia was dependent upon the sugar industry, and that the sugar industry was the greatest industry of the greatest State of Australia; that there was very little opposition to it to be found in any State of the Commonwealth, and that what opposition did exist was, in fact, hopelessly biased if not, as it has been represented, malicious and deliberately untrue. The Leader of the Opposition said that the Henry George League cannot claim to stand for any decent Australian. I am not a Henry Georgie ora single taxer but to attempt to wipe out in this way a body such as this, which consists of most excellent, respectable and honest men is simply ludicrous. Such a description of such a body is an overstatement that robs the more correct statements of the Leader of the Opposition of a good deal of their weight. On the other side we should have the arguments of those who, while disagreeing on minor points, are not prepared to swallow the agreement lock, stock and barrel.  Senator Hardy  and others referred to those who wish to destroy the industry. Is there an honorable senator here, or do we know of any one, who wishes to destroy the industry? Such assertions are as far from the mark as are those of high protectionists, who, for their own purposes, suggest that supporters of a minor reduction of the duty on some item of iron and steel wish to destroy the industry conducted by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. Surely we can maintain a sense of proportion in such matters! The agreement embodies many details of a difficult and contentious subject, and it should be permissible for honorable senators who feel that, in some respects, it could be improved, to express their opinion without being exposed to the accusation of being biased, and, indeed, of making inaccurate statements. There has been a good deal of the propaganda mentioned by some honorable senators. I have received letters and circulars from district councils and similar bodies all over South Australia, directing attention to the objections to a renewal of the sugar agreement. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Col lings)  is not likely to give them the facts by making such statements as" the Henry George League does not stand for decent Australians." If he visited Eyre Peninsula, or some of the MurrayRiver districts, he would not get a hearing. 
Every honorable senator recognizes that the maintenance of the sugar industry is bound up with the White Australia ideal; but it does not follow that we should give everything that is sought simply because, if we oppose a renewal of the agreement, we shall be accused of acting in opposition to the maintenance of that policy. While there has been a lot of propaganda in South Australia, and, I believe, in Victoria - some of what has reached me has come from Victoria - I have not been bombarded to the same extent as I have been for years with propaganda from Queensland. 
The propaganda which the Leader of the Opposition supports came out first; but it could not have been very poisonous, because it has been in circulation for many years, and, relatively, has had very  little effect. I have been bombarded with Queensland newspapers week after week and month after month. Many articles appearing in these newspapers - and, indeed, in some of the pamphlets with whichwe have been regaled of late - are published without the names of the writers. One is authorized by  Mr. Craigie,  a member of the House of Assembly of South Australia, who may, of course, be wrong in some of the statements he makes; but he has devoted a great deal of attention to statements which he has published over his own name,, and they are open for any one to disprove. 
I regret that the sugar issue relates very largely to Queensland, because that tends to obscure the issue in a way which does not occur in connexion with other industries. It should be possible to deal with this problem without being charged with attacking Queensland. Many honorable senators were members of the Senate when the present agreement was ratified three years ago. I then listened to a long debate, including an extremely able speech on the subject by  Sir Hal  Colebatch, who rarely spoke without lending a great deal of weight and interest to any discussion in which he participated. He was a first-class debater, and his speech on this subject seemed to me to be one of his best. Three years ago the present Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan),  after conducting negotiations with the sugar interests in Queensland, returned with a tentative arrangement embodying a reduction of the retail price by¼d. per lb. That was considered unsatisfactory by the Government, and the Minister again visited Queensland, and eventually a reduction of  id.  was decided upon. A fairly strong attack was made upon the agreement, and there was a good deal of doubt in the minds of some honorable senators as to the way in which they should vote. I followed the debate with great care, as I was in some doubt as to how to record my vote. There is no doubt in my mind to-day. At that time I considered that a reduction of½d. was insufficient ; but that any reduction should be on a tapering or graduated scale, rather than that there should be a severe, or as the Leader of the Opposition would say, a savage cut. We were then passing through extremely difficult times and at the end of the debate I decided to support the Government. My remarks on that occasion are to be found in  Hansard,  volume 137, of 1932. I said- 
I suggest that the proper course, and the one generally adopted in other cases, is to have a gradual scaling down. The scaling down, in this instance, is not so great as I would desire, but it represents a definite reduction, which means something to the consumers . . While I propose to support this bill, believing that, on the whole, it is not radically unfair, I do not commit myself for the future, in relation to sugar or anything else. 
I now take the matter up at that point and suggest that that scaling down should be continued. There is no reason why the price should remain where it then stood. I supported the Government's proposal for a reduction of only ½d. because I thought that, on the whole, we should not radically interfere with the industry, although I did not think the concession was adequate. I adhere to what I then said because I do not think the present price is warranted, or that we should discontinue a gradual scaling-down policy. The actual reduction then made was only 11 per cent. and it was claimed by many that it might fairly be 22 per cent., which, it will be remembered, was the percentage reduction of interest on Government securities and mortgages. 
SenatorCollings. -There had been a decrease of the number of income taxpayers and of the amount of tax paid by those engaged in the industry. 
-HUGHE S . - Other primary producers are faced with difficulties in paying income taxes, and there are many who have not any income upon which to pay any tax at all. In comparison with other great industries the sugar industry is comparatively small. According to figures quoted by the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  in the House of Representatives, there are only 32,000 employed in it, while the number engaged in the dairying industry, for instance, is about 169,000, quite apart from the number engaged in the wheat-growing industry. Moreover, the sugar industry was established on an artificial basis and it does not employ an abnormal number of persons. It is supported by governmental and other forms of assistance to a greater extent than any other primary or secondary industry. Professor Giblin, who was quoted this afternoon by  Senator Crawford,  calculated early this year that the cost of the industry to the community was £5,100,000 annually. 
The figures which I propose to quote are taken from a recently published memorandum compiled in South Australia under Government supervision. The work was carried out by the Auditor-General of South Australia, a member of the Statistical Department, and an auditor, under the control of, and for, the South Australian Disabilities Committee. The statistics relate to the year 1932-33. Honorable senators may ask why I have not obtained later figures. I have no sinister reason for quoting these particular figures; 1932-33 is the only year for which the figures are in existence. They are extraordinarily interesting and should be informative to  Senator Crawford  among others. They show the estimated cost of sheltering Australian primary and secondary industries by tariffs or bounties against foreign competition in home and foreign markets in that year; and they disclose the net burden or benefit, if any, accruing to each State as a result of the Commonwealth's policy of protection. 
Before I proceed to quote the figures, the definition of " excess costs " may be of interest -  " Excess costs " means the extra amount of the sale price of Australian-produced goods in Australia over and above the sale price of such goods that would have obtained without Commonwealth legislative action. 
I am quite aware that since 1932-33, all or any of these figures may have varied, but I think that the period may be regarded as a fair specimen year. The excess cost of butter, according to this calculation is £2,430,027, and sugar, nearly £5,800,000. 
This excessive cost of sugar is nearly three times the burden on the Australian consumer that any other industry, primary or secondary, imposes. 
If motor bodies are included in this memorandum, I shall be pleased to disclose the information. The excess cost of wheat was £2,000,000. 
These "excess costa" are due to protection. Referring now to secondary industries, I find that the excess cost in regard to chemicals is very high, being £927,120; boots and shoes, £1,097,734; engineering and other metal works, £1,035,989; tailoring and slop clothing, £1,266,466. These are the only items, primary or secondary which in the year under review had an excess cost, as it is defined by the committee, of over £1,000,000, the cause being protection. The excess cost of sugar was more than double that of butter, and nearly treble that of wheat. 
The following reference to sugar appears: - 
Customs tariff £9 Cs. 8d. per ton, preferential and general. Data supplied by the Export Sugar 'Committee shows that the basic value of raw cane sugar used for refining for the domestic market for the 1932 season was £25 per ton, while the return from exports was £8 5s. 9d. per ton. The difference of £10 14s. 3d. roughly represents the excess cost of raw cane sugar per ton. 
Further details are given, but I shall not delay the Senate by quoting them. 
HUGHES. -  Senator Crawford  made a verbal trip along the Murray river and referred, for instance, to the subject of dried fruits. He may be interested to learn that, in respect of dried fruits, the burden on South Australia is £19,000 and the benefit is nearly £55,000. That is to say, the net benefit accruing to South Australia in respect of dried fruits is £35,000.  Senator Crawford  said, in effect, " "We assist South Australia with its dried fruits industry; why should South Australia object to protection .being afforded to Queensland's sugar?" However, the figures show that the excess cost of sugar to Australia is £5,78S,659, whereas the dried fruits' industry is beneficial to South Australia to the amount of £35,000. The burden imposed by sugar on South Australia exceeds £500,000; the burden of wheat on Queensland is about £284,000, and on South Australia £168,000; so that there is not very much difference in that respect. Without going further into statistical details, I have shown that a tremendous load is placed on the community by granting excessively high protection to industries. This report is most interesting and I shall be pleased lo lend it to honorable senators. 
That  interjection  does not answer the argument contained in this document. I hope that  Senator Foll  can produce a better defence than that for the protection of the sugar industry. 
It was prepared by the South Australian Disabilities Committee for the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The sugar industry has been petted and favoured to a greater extent than any other industry in Australia. That policy may or may not have been right, but honorable senators should not be prevented from exercising their own opinion as to whether this agreement should be continued. I am averse to attempts to stabilize artificial prices in any industry. It may be within the memory of honorable senators that in 1933, a bill was introduced to pay a bounty on a number of iron and steel products with a view to stabilizing prices. In my opinion that policy was unsound ; it is a hopeless business to select certain. lines of manufacture and attempt to stabilize the prices for them. In any case, I moved in this chamber for the omission of galvanized iron, fencing wire, and wire netting from the scope of that particular bill. Two divisions were taken, and in each instance my motion was carried by a majority of one vote. I am pleased to think that I had something to do with the rejection of that proposal. Wool has no stabilized price; in fact, nobody ever suggests that the price should be stabilized. 
No, Bawra never controlled the Australian wool market or the wool clip. 
HUGHES. - When assistance cannot be given to the wool industry, I am not prepared to participate in any effort to fix a high disproportionate price for certain other industries. 
The sugar industry has been favoured by the fact that this agreement, after having been in existence for three years, will now be extended for another five years, but no reduction of price is contemplated. 

 Senator DUNCANHUGHES.Sugar has been a favoured industry, and I conceive it to be my responsibility, and the duty of honorable senators, to see that a sense of balance is preserved,  so  that industries will not receive disproportionate benefits. I remind senators  who  are new to this chamber that in 1930-31 the price of sugar was £21 a ton. The Right Honorable W. M. Hughes appointed a royal commission, of which  Mr. Piddington  was the  chairman. Mr. 
Hughes fixed the price of sugar at £30 6s. 8d. a ton - nearly £7 a ton more than the industry asked for. 
The price asked for was £23 10s. a ton. The price fixed by  Mr. Hughes  was £8 6s. 8d. a ton more than the Royal Commission had recommended and £9 6s. Sd. a ton more than the then prevailing price. 
In the light of those figures, can it be suggested that this industry has not been treated with consideration? Yet, when we suggest that there has perhaps been a little too much consideration, we are treated almost as if we were making a ferocious attack on the industry. 
I voted with the Government that the existing agreement should be continued. I believe that the sugar industry is efficiently conducted, as, indeed, it should be. There are certain fixed payments, among them being - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_37_11.jpg"></graphic>

Those payments do not appear to be unreasonable. "We are assured that the profits of the company are largely drawn from outside Australia, or from other investments in Australia. I cannot say whether or not that is so. I cannot even say whether these various charges are cut to the bone. But, in any case, I cannot see in them much room for criticism. It has been pointed out, even by speakers who have attacked the company, that it is not directly associated with the agreement, although it might be affected by any change made in the agreement. I fail to see why, in discussing the agreement, so much attention should be given to the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. 
I am glad to have that interjection because, otherwise, I might have overlooked that point. There has been no attempt to stabilize the price of wheat over a period of years. It is true that the wheatgrowing industry has been assisted year after year by grants, which have fluctuated between £2,000,000 and £4,000,000 a year, but at no time has Parliament fixed a price for wheat for six years ahead. That, in my opinion, is a most material consideration in connexion with the Sugar Agreement. We are asked to stabilize this industry on a hopelessly artificial basis for five years. We have not done that in regard to anything else, with the possible exception of tractor engines. In discussing the sugar industry, which employs a number of good Australians, I desire only to be reasonable and fair, and not to indulge in extravagant language. What has been the result of all the attention given to this industry? First, we have protected it. by an embargo which is a likely cause of annoyance to the people of other countries; secondly, we have inflated the value of sugar lands; thirdly, we have led to the payment to employees in the industry of high wages which, although determined by the Queensland Arbitration Court, are high largely because the money is there to pay them. 
We have also made possible hopelessly disproportionate internal and external prices. The real value of sugar in the eyes of the world is hopelessly out of relation to its price in Australia. That disproportion is not so pronounced in respect of any other product we sell overseas. Then we have caused every inducement to reduce the output. That is a rather lamentable position. I am aware that there have been times when, . in other industries, production has been allowed to proceed beyond what is desirable, and that a check has been found necessary, but what can we think of an industry which reaches a point where every expansion and every increase of production is to the detriment of those already engaged in it ? Is that the sort of industry which this continent hopes to build up by artificial means? Is it likely to be of great benefit to the rest of Australia economically? I do not think so. There is also the fact that certain lands are earmarked for the growing of sugar-cane whilst on adjoining lands sugar-cane may not be grown. That places different values upon lands according to whether or not they are ear-marked for the growing of sugar-cane. I think that I am correct in that statement. 
Is that a sound policy? 

 Senator DUNCANHUGHES.There is also the definite danger to the cane sugar industry of an increased production of sugar from beet.For some time there have been indications of an extension of the beet sugar industry. When  Senator Brown  suggested that  Senator Johnston  might grow sugar in Western Australia, he, perhaps, did not think that the honorable senator might well do so. If beet sugar is grown in South Australia, Tasmania and Western Australia, the growers there will not be like those at Maffra, in Victoria, who I believe had an understanding that if they did not extend their operations, they would be free to sell their sugar anywhere in Australia. I cannot agree with  Senator Brand  that this agreement will ensure stability for five years. The agreement is hopelessly uneconomic, and Parliament should endeavour to rectify the existing uneconomic condition of the industry. I believe now, as I did three years ago, that there should be a moderate reduction of the assistance granted to this industry which, in my opinion, imposes a tremendous load on the rest of Australia. 
That it has not done so may be due to the fact that other benefits derived by Queensland from Commonwealth legislation have made it unnecessary for that State to approach the Commonwealth in a more or less penurious way. I suggest that an advantage of £5,000,000, or more, a year puts a State in a much better position than that of another State which gets a grant of £1,000,000. or even £2,000,000, a year. I do not claim to have put the case against the agreement adequately, but I hope that I, at least, have shown that there are two sides to this matter. In my opinion, there are far more people in Australia who wish for a reduction of the price of sugar than desire that the agreement be ratified. In committee I shall move for a further scaling down of the benefit to the industry in the interests of the consumers of sugar. 
I do not wish to be guilty of boiling cabbage twice, but from' the remarks of  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  it would appear that he was not present when  Senator Collings  gave to the Senate some official figures relating to the sugar industry. 
Figures extracted from the report of the State Income Tax Commissioner for Queensland, give the following results - 
Comparing the taxation year 1934-1935 With 1933-1934, it is found that the - 
Number of taxpayers generally - increased 4 per cent. 
Number of cane-growers who are taxpayers - decreased 26 per cent. 
Net income of all taxpayers - increased 10 per cent. 
Net income of cane-growers who paid tax  decreased 30.05 per cent. 
The taxable income of all taxpayers - increased 13.9 per cent. 
The taxable income of cane-growers - decreased 32 per cent. 
The total tax assessed for all taxpayers - increased 20.5 per cent. 
The total tax assessed for cane-growers - decreased 41.3 per cent. 
Honorable senators speak as if a reduction of the price of sugar by½d. per lb. were a small thing, but it is a big proportion of 4½ per lb. A gradual scaling down by½d. per lb. at a time and a  reduction of the term of the agreement to two or three years, will, if the process be continued long enough, destroy the sugar industry. 
The figures quoted by  Senator Collings  show what would happen if these things were done.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  discussed the agreement in moderate terms, and I hope to follow his example. It is my intention to state the facts as clearly as possible, in order that the people of Australia may thoroughly understand what the renewal of the sugar agreement means to the Commonwealth as a whole, having particular regard to the maintenance of a "White Australia policy through the effective settlement of the fertile lands in the tropical coastal belt of Queensland. I have long had the impression that many people in the southern States are convinced that Queensland is one of the richest States in the Commonwealth. 
I suppose that at times we all "  boost " our  own State and indulge in a certain amount of sales talk. 
No ; it contains a large area of fertile land capable of immense production, and I like to think of it as one of the more important States of the Commonwealth. But it is not so incomparably rich, either actually or potentially, as to be able to withstand the onslaughts of southern opposition to its principal primary industry. I had an opportunity to visit Western Australia early this year, and during my stay there I was much enlightened as to the position of that State in the federation. A study of the last report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, which examined the applications made by South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania for financial assistance, has convinced rae that, whilst the three States named are justified in claiming a measure of financial relief from the Commonwealth for the disabilities which they suffer under federation, Queensland, which the investigation showed was in a condition of balance - that is to say, it has not benefited so enormously as New South Wales and Victoria - is also deserving of sympathetic treatment from the other States in respect of its major primary industry if it is to maintain a condition of solvency. Southern opponents of the sugar agreement would do well to bear in mind that the maintenance of the industry in Queensland is to that State a compensating advantage of federation, enabling it to avoid appealing to the Commonwealth for financial assistance. If through the scaling-down of the return to sugar-growers by the fixation of a lower retail price for sugar the industry were destroyed, Queensland's finances would certainly be in such an unsatisfactory state as to justify an appeal to the Commonwealth for financial aid. If honorable senators will analyse the figures contained in the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission they will discover that Queensland is not the marvellously rich State which some southern people believe it to be. It is, I repeat, in a condition of balance in relation to the Commonwealth. By this is meant that, whilst New South Wales and Victoria have benefited enormously from federation, Queensland has not; on the other hand, it has not, so far, been reduced to such a condition as to render necessary an appeal to the Commonwealth. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I ask the honorable senator to relate his remarks to the subjectmatter of the bill. 
J shall not intentionally trangress your ruling,  Mr. President.  My purpose is to show that if, by any action in this Parliament, Commonwealth support were withdrawn from Queensland's major industry, that State then would, in all probability, join the other claimant States, and Commonwealth payments to South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania would be correspondingly reduced. On page 33 of the report of the Commonwealth 
Grants Commission appears the following comment with regard to financial adjustments and disbursements under federation :  - 
It is assumed, for example, the States would have been certain to make substantially the same payments for pensions and relief to wheat-growers that the Commonwealth made. The table shows that Queensland is in a position of balance, and that New South Wales and Victoria make substantial contributions which benefit the other three States. 
The tables of relative prosperity that appear in the report show clearly that the southern States receive a definite  quid pro quo  for the protection which the Queensland sugar industry secures under the agreement. In the financial year with which the report deals, South Australia received from the Commonwealth grants amounting to £1,400,000,Western Australia £600,000, and Tasmania £400,000. On a population basis, Queensland contributed one-seventh of that sum. The report sums up the compensating advantages of federation under the heading " General advantages," as follows :  - 
A common defence policy. 
The operations of the Commonwealth Bank and the Australian Loan Council. 
A common policy in external affairs. 
Immigration policy, leading to uniform standards, such as a White Australia. 
The general effect of the financial agreement, under which the credit and organization of the Commonwealth support borrowings of the States. 
Common policy in banking, currency and credit. 
Services and investigations of the 
Health Department, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and other departments. 
h ) Exchange benefits to exporters. 
I do not desire to labour this point, but I invite all honorable senators who are interested to study the report. If they do this, they will realize that Queensland is not such a rich partner of the federation as to be able to maintain its position as one of the major States of the Commonwealth, if its sugar industry is destroyed. I agree with  Senator James  McLachlan that we Queenslanders do put out our chests, and declare that Queensland is a great State, and by so doing invite, when such things as the sugar agreement come up for consideration, other States to "have a piece of us " in order that Queensland might be brought down to the level of the weaker 
States. The general tenor of speeches of honorable senators who adversely criticized this measure, reminds me of a poverty competition. One is given the impression from their remarks that each State should be constantly on the lookout to see where it can fleece some benefit from another State in order to make the more fortunate States poorer. They, apparently, hold the idea that by this course aid can be given to the weaker States. I support the remarks of my leader  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator Brown  regarding the advantages which other States receive from Queensland to compensate for any concessions which they make to the northern State under the sugar agreement.  Senator DuncanHughes  quoted an estimate that the excess cost of the sugar industry was nearly £6,000,000 annually. That figure has been challenged. 
At any rate, that figure has been scaled down to£4,000,000. Figures advanced by honorable senators in this respect seem to vary according to the authors of them. For instance,  Senator Duncan-Hughes  said that the wheat industry received a benefit of only £2,000,000 annually. When I heard that figure my memory gave a twitch, and I immediately recalled that on one occasion a grant  of £4,000,000 was given to the wheat industry. 
That is so. 

 - Senator DuncanHughes mentioned £4,000,000. 

 Senator J. V. MacDONALD.Yes, and I could quote a score of similar -bills which have come before this Parliament within the last few years, which all honorable senators, irrespective of their geographical attachments, reciprocally supported. I feel sure that honorable senators generally will regard the sugar agreement in much the same light. However, whenever this agreement comes up for consideration there is a tendency in some quarters to point to Queensland's alleged prosperity as an argument against its ratification. 'One of the most important aspects   of this measure which honorable senators should .bear in mind is that Queeusland 'has suffered considerable disability under federation. Due to the abolition of State tariffs, manufacturing production in Queensland has decreased tremendously with the result that to-day it is practically stagnant; it has not kept pace with the great increase of population. Figures published in the Commonwealth  YearBoole  show that if Queensland had not entered federation its manufacturing industries to-day would be employing from 20.000 to 30,000 employees more than they now employ. Thus, if it is claimed that the sugar industry gives employment to, say, from '20,000 to 30,000 employees, and  this  is pointed to as an alleged benefit, I remind honorable senators that such a development only compensates Queensland for losses suffered by its manufacturing industries 'as r. result of federation. 
I have covered this matter briefly; I do not intend to go into the genesis of the sugar agreement. I emphasize that the industry had a rough time. In 1922, when the freetraders tried to smash this agreement, they described it as a war measure. It may have originated as a war measure, but it is too valuable to be lost to-day. During the war it saved Australian consumers of sugar £15,000,000, because under this agreement we were able to buy our sugar in those years very cheaply when the world parity was about1s. 6d. per lb. This agreement in its relation to defence, the populating of the northern regions of Australia, and our prosperity generally, is of vital importance to this country. Queensland is practically the greatest market for Australian-manufactured goods, and the sugar industry plays a very important part in the economic life of Australia. I hope that my remarks answer the arguments of those opposed to this agreement and show conclusively that for whatever concessions Queensland receives through this agreement the other States are adequately compensated. I point out also that a decreasing number of cane-growers are taxpayers. If the price of sugar were reduced by½d. or1d. per lb., which is a big reduction in relation to the present price of 4d., it would not be profitable to grow sugar in Queensland and thus the industry would be destroyed. 
Honorable senators will agree that we listened to a very interesting speech this afternoon by  Senator Crawford.  Coming from the honorable senator, with his wealth of knowledge, experience and interest in the production of sugar, we must accept many of his utterances as statements of fact. The honorable gentleman has an intimate acquaintance with this subject, extending over 40 years, and it cannot be denied that he made a very eloquent and urgent appeal for support of the bill. At the same time, we have to thank  Senator Duncan-Hughes  for an interesting diversion, as up to that time every  speaker  had supported the bill. He showed us another side of the picture, which warrants the attention of honorable senators.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  said that South Australia has ground for the suggestion that something different should be obtained from the present sugar agreement. At the same time the honorable gentleman dealt very casually, I think, with the statement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  regarding the serious decline in the returns from income tax in Queensland. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out, the decline in the price of sugar had a serious effect upon the industry. The income tax figures quoted by the Leader of the Opposition were interesting, and one must assume that they are a fair barometer of the fluctuation in the industry caused by the last reduction of the price of sugar by½d. per lb.. I suggest that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  should study the latest report of the Commission of Taxation, on page 39 of which he will find the relative assessments for the various States for resident taxpayers. One would assume, from the propaganda and references made to those opposed to the sugar agreement, that the people of Queensland represent a very wealthy section of the community; but, on reference to these figures, they do not appear to be so wealthy as some of the people of South Australia. For instance, in South Australia the number of persons receiving taxable incomes of £5,000 and over are 23, whereas in Queensland there are only nineteen. Those in South Australia receiving from £4,000 to £5,000 number fourteen, while those in Queensland number only eleven. In South Australia there are 31 receiving £3,000, and in Queensland 51. On the property side there is a different story altogether. According to our friends in Opposition, the ownership of property is not only wrong, but should be abhorred. According to these figures, it takes 31,502 taxpayers in Queensland to produce a property income of £127,000, but in South Australia only 13,894. That clearly indicates that South Australia is in a much better position in respect of the ownership of property than is Queensland. 
I have just said that it takes 31,502 taxpayers in that State to produce property income of. £127,000, whereas iu South Australia that amount is produced by only 13,894.  Senator Brand  referred to the activities of certain paid organizers in producing an anti-sugar complex. I should like to refer to the activities in Western Australia, which are by no means caused by paid agitators. Representatives of that State have been inundated with letters from responsible municipalities and roads boards, condemning the sugar agreement, and urging us to oppose it. These .municipalities are controlled by honest and good citizens, who are very sincere in the resolutions which they have passed in condemnation of the agreement. The problem is very complex, so much so that I made it my business during the la3t recess to visit Queensland, and to study the position so far as I was able to do in the limited time at my disposal. I endeavoured to obtain first-hand information regarding the industry, which I hoped would be of benefit to me. Prior to that visit I had heard a great many discussions concerning sugar and most of the opinions expressed were condemnatory of the present agreement; but invariably, when a  speaker  was asked if he had ever visited northern Queensland, a negative reply was received. I travelled from Cairns to Bundaberg, and on a visit which occupied approximately four weeks I saw as much as I could of the indus try from the planting of .cane to the production of the refined article. I admit that I received many surprises, especially in view of the impression which I had obtained prior to my visit to North Queensland. The first point which impressed me forcibly was the full extent to which the land was used, especially when it is compared with land in the vicinity of Carnarvon and Derby in my own State. We have heard to-day that the population in the semitropical portion of the north-west of Western Australia is approximately 6,000^ as against a population in a similar area in Queensland of 172,000. The significance of that comparison is obvious. It emphasizes the benefit which the sugar industry has conferred upon that portion of the Commonwealth. Iu addition to the way in which the land is used, it was remarkable to find the amount of sheer hard work put into the land by the farmers themselves. It was equally remarkable to find the efficiency of the employees whom- I saw working in various phases of' the production of sugar. Even in Western Australia we have heard of the high wages paid, especially to the cane-cutters, and we had been told that, as it is a seasonal occupation, there is usually an influx of workers from New Zealand, Tasmania and other parts of the Commonwealth to engage in this .highly remunerative occupation. I saw a number of gangs cutting cane - I . cut a few stalks myself - but all of the cane-cutters I met were local residents of northern Queensland, and live adjacent to Cairns, Innisfail, Mackay, and right down to Bundaberg. I did not come in contact with a New Zealander or a Tasmanian who had come there to cut cane, with the intention of returning to his home at the end of this season. The wages paid to the cane-cutters, who are very hardy and hard-worked, are less than I should like to be paid for similar work. They are doing hard physical labour in a latitude corresponding to that of the area between Carnarvon and Derby, and, as one canecutter said, the work was really more suitable for coloured men. They were working hard and earning a very fair wage, but they earned it. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Yes. I was pleased to see that there were a number of ex-members of the Australian Imperial Force in the various camps. The top gang in that part of the State was led by a man with the well-known name of McDougall. I made it my business to see the gang at work, and I was amazed at its capacity and the work which it performed in a certain time. The canefarmers and the cane-cutters earn every penny which they receive. That is my unqualified opinion after observing the work in the industry in northern Queensland. The same can be said of the mill employees, who are highly-trained men, and perform their work efficiently. So much for the so-called exorbitant wages paid in the industry. 
I have just informed the Senate that I saw them doing their work, and I do not consider that they were over-paid. 
I obtained a schedule showing the payments made to the employees in the various branches of the industry, and I knew what each class of worker received. My observations enabled me to compare the nature of the work that they were performing with the scale of remuneration. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.The latitude in which those men were working must be taken into consideration. When Commonwealth public servants are transferred to semi-tropical districts they receive an extra allowance for their labour. 
It is only fair and just that, on account of the latitude in which they are working, the employees should receive an extra allowance, similar to that made to employees on the north-west gold-fields. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.That is so. I must admit my astonishment at the comparatively few aliens that I saw employed in the sugar areas. The explanation may be that I did not visit the particular districts in which the aliens are to be found in the greatest numbers. 
I visited Ingham and Innisfail, which is supposed to be a highly-alienized centre of the sugar industry, but I saw very few foreigners. The pamphlet published under the authority of the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  states that the alien influence on the industry is very small, and asserts that the industry is by no means in the hands of foreign labour. The following figures taken from that pamphlet reveal the proportion of British to foreign workers in the industry: British born, 79.8 per cent; naturalized British, 10.1 per cent; total British, 89.9 per cent. Thus the foreign element is represented by only 10.1 per cent. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.The honorable senator cannot deny that 10.1 per cent. of them are naturalized British subjects. A member of the mining section of the Australian Workers Union in Kalgoorlie or Boulder may have been born in Italy, but if he becomes naturalized, he is regarded as being British. 
My figures were obtained by the committee which was appointed by the Commonwealth in 1931 to inquire as to the extent to which Italians were engaged in the sugar industry. The pamphlet states - 
No Inter figures ave yet available, but action since taken in Queensland to reduce the employment of foreign cane-cutters in certain districts whilst not allowing other districts to increase such employment, has probably caused a reduction of the above percentage of 10.1 per cent, for foreigners, and increased the 79.8 per cent, for British-born persons. 
Certainly 10.1 per cent, is not a high proportion of aliens to British workers in the sugar industry; it is 'not nearly so great as we from the southern States have been led to believe. 
Another criticism often levelled in Western Australia against the sugar industry relates to the .predominance of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. During my visit to Queensland I found no evidence of such predominance. I visited the only mill owned by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company in Queensland, and found that exactly the same working conditions obtained there as in any of the privately-owned or cooperativelyowned mills. Apropos of the repeated references to the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, I shall quote an extract from the pamphlet prepared under the authority of the Minister for Trade and Customs. It deals particularly with this company's interest in the industry - 
Those who endeavour to connect the company's recent increase of £5,850,000 in its paidup capital with the sugar agreement policy overlook the fact that the present limited company has been engaged in business in three countries (Australia, Fiji and New Zealand) for nearly 50 years, and its predecessor for another 30 years previously. In a prudentlymanaged business of 80 years' duration, even small annual additions to reserves ultimately result in large sums at compound interest. Moreover, a large proportion of the company's plant was purchased at low pre-war prices, and is worth much more to-day than the prewar costs as reduced by depreciation allowances. 
Company's Fiji Earnings. 
Store important still is the company's business in Fiji, where all the raw sugar is produced at its own mills. Since the 1931 Commonwealth inquiry investigated the Colonial Sugar  Refining  Company's .Australian profits, the British preference on colonial, as distinct from dominion, sugar has been increased by £3 per ton on a specified quota of colonial sugar. This increase has benefited the company on the quota proportion of its Fiji output by approximately £200,000 per annum.. 
This increased Fiji revenue is definitely more than the reduced returns of the company at' its seven Australian raw sugar mills consequent upon the reduction of Id. per lb. in tho retail price of Australian refined sugar in January, 1933, and the lower returns on exported Australian raw sugar since 1931. This fully explains why the company's total profits have not fallen, despite sugar earnings in Australia, which are less, for the reasons just stated, than the 7.1 per cent, (or 5i per cent, after payment of income taxes), ascertained by tho Commonwealth inquiry in 1931. 
Apart' from much improved Fiji earnings in recent years due to British super-preference on colonial sugar, during the war and immediate post-war periods Fiji sugar was frequently sold at the extraordinary prices then common all over the world, except in Australia where the price was kept far below the world parity level by the Commonwealth Government. The large profits then received by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company partly account for the capitalization of reserves it recently made. 
The Commonwealth Government, however, is not in the least responsible for what the Colonial Sugar Refining Company earns outside Australia, whether from sugar in Fiji and New Zealand, or from investments. 
However, the Government takes good care to ensure that excessive sugar profits are not earned in Australia, and to collect all taxation due on the company's Australian profits which are closely scrutinized by the Commissioner for Taxation each year. 
Unlike some other honorable senators, I do not object sometimes to receiving propaganda from either side in relation to an important matter of public concern, such as the sugar industry undoubtedly is. In the  Producers Review  of Toowoomba, Queensland, of the 15th October, 1935, a number of valuable references appear, which enable one to view the sugar industry in its proper perspective. That journal deals with various household commodities - meat, butter, bread, milk and sugar - and it is interesting to note that the consumption  per capita  in Australia of meat in 1934-35 was 186 lb. valued at 103s. 2d.; butter, 30 lb. valued at 42s. 6d.; bread, 100 lb. valued at 39s. 4d.; milk, 72 quarts valued at 38s. 10d.; and sugar (refined), 106 lb. valued at 35s. 4d. Thus the sugar consumption per head of the population was lower than that of milk, bread, butter or meat; but I have never heard of an outcry, or of the formation of consumers' organizations to urge a reduction of the price of the commodities other than sugar. Although this may be the weighted average of the Australian household, in my own home the consumption of sugar is much greater than 106 lb. This average, 
I presume, is taken on the basis of the Australian arbitration award - a man, wife and two 'children. With the reduction of  id.  per lb. the saving on the consumption of sugar a year in my household would be less than 13s. Other figures aire  quoted  in this paper, including a comparison between the prices of various household commodities in 1911, and those ruling in June of the present year. The  index  figure for food and groceries shows an increase of 42.5 per cent., but the increase of the cost of sugar per lb. was only 33 per cent. In other household commodities substantial increases were recorded - beef 32.6 per cent., butter 23.4 per cent., jam 55 per cent.., milk 28.9 per cent. These statistics reveal that sugar is by no means the expensive item that critics of the industry lead one to believe, while the increase of the cost of sugar is far less than that of many other household commodities. In my investigations in northern Queensland I made it my business to interview all classes of people associated with the trade, including mill managers, foremen, an industrial magistrate, sugar chemists, and so on down the scale, and I state, unhesitatingly, that my conclusion was that this was one of the most efficient industries that I have ever examined in Australia. At one time it was thought to be almost impossible to organize the producers, but in Queensland, I found that the producers engaged in sugargrowing were excellently organized; and I admired them for their efforts. Tt is easy to suggest that there should be a reduction of the cost of a household commodity such as sugar, but it is difficult to show how it could be brought about. I should be only too willing to join with  Senator Duncan-Hughes  in advocating an all-round reduction of  id.  per lb. in the price of sugar, provided that the honorable senator could demonstrate that the suggestion was practicable in that the industry could bear the reduction. A suggestion to reduce the price of sugar is on all-fours with a general proposal for a low tariff. Without a technical inquiry into tariff items, how could this. Parliament say whether the duties should be high or low? It is all very well to make these airy suggestions; but the effect of putting them into operation needs to be considered. I would gladly support the holding of a proper inquiry into the sugar industry, and if, as a result, a reduction of the price of sugar were shown to be justified, I would willingly assist to bring about that reduction. On one of the farms which I visited in northern Queensland, I met a valiant son of Scotia who demonstrated that he was operating his sugar lands for the first time on an overdraft. The figures quoted by the Leader of the Country party  (Senator Hardy),  showing that the number of liens and mortgages on , sugar lands has increased during recent years, confirm what I, myself, realized when in Queensland. Following my visit to that farm, another honorable senator went to it; and when I met him subsequently he informed me that the farmer was greatly perturbed because I had suggested that the price of sugar might be reduced by  id.  per lb. despite the fact that the farmer had an overdraft. It is true that, in the course of conversation, I mentioned a possible reduction of the price of sugar, but, after hearing the grower's side of the case and the opinions of other farmers, my views were somewhat modified. There is a great deal to be said for retaining this industry, and, therefore, we should hesitate before doing anything which might injure it. The figures quoted by  Senator Crawford  as to the population of the sugar areas were illuminating, because they show that in the tropical and semi-tropical parts of Queensland there are approximately 250,000 people, or more than the population of Tasmania, which has six representatives in this chamber. Had it not been for the sugar industry; the northern portion of Queensland would compare more nearly with the north-west district of Western Australia, where there is no sugar industry and, where, perhaps, sugar could not be grown because of the inadequate rainfall. That portion of Western Australia contains some excellent soil, which I have heard praised from one end of Australia to the other; but having a. rainfall of only a few inches a year it cannot be cultivated profitably. Like  Senator Johnston,  I should like to see sugar produced in Western Australia; but this is probably a vain hope, because the economic position of that State must be taken into consideration. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Yes. I was astonished to learn to-day of the handsome profits made in Victoria front the production of beet sugar. Some time ago a number of gentlemen in Western Australia contemplated the formation of a company to grow beet for the production of sugar and its allied products; but the information supplied to them regarding, the production of sugar from beet at Maffra was totally different from that which has been stated here to-day. I daresay that they will give further consideration to this subject in the light of what has been stated here. It may now be practicable to produce beet sugar in Western Australia, and also the valuable fodder bi-products of beet. 
I repeat that I should like to support an amendment along the lines suggested by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  but, until it can be demonstrated to me that a reduction of the price of sugar would not materially harm- the industry, I shall not be able to do so. I therefore commend the bill to honorable senators, in the hope that honorable senators from Queensland will show an equal regard for the wheat industry, which is of vital importance to Western Australia, and is in dire need of assistance. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.There should be reciprocity in these matters, and an exercise of common sense. I confidently look to Queensland senators to assist the wheat industry of Western Australia, because in the past they have granted assistance to it ungrudgingly. During the last four years that industry has received valuable assistance from the National Parliament, and at all times our Queensland friends in this chamber have been in the forefront in supporting such measures, as, indeed, they have been in assisting needy primary industries generally in the several States. I shall support the bill. 
 I desire, first, to compliment  Senator Duncan-Hughes  on his fair and informative speech, and especially on having pointed out that there are two sides to this question,   one  of which had not previously been mentioned. Until the honorable senator  ro3n,  I thought that I had strayed into a mutual admiration society, because I found Ministers and Government supporters, the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues, as well as  Senator Hardy,vieing  with one another in expressing admiration for the bill, and acting generally in the spirit of goodfellowship. 
I disagreed with all the views expressed, except those of  Senator Duncan-Hughes. 
 The honorable senator has taken a. long time to tune in. 
It is interesting to note that the agreement for the continuation of the embargo against the importation of sugar for five years was signed by  Dr. Earle  Page, and commended in this chamber by  Senator Hardy.  The remarks of the Minister for Commerce in the House of Representatives and of  Senator Hardy  in this chamber show how entirely different is the policy of the Country party in Western Australia from that of the Country party in the eastern States. In the House of Representatives, Messrs. Gregory and Prowse have expounded the policy of theCountry party in Western Australia, and since I have been a. member of the Senate I have supported that policy. So far as 
I know, all the members of the Country party from Western Australia are opposed to the sugar embargo and to high tariffs. 
I have received a very large number of letters and telegrams from public bodies throughout Western Australia forwarding resolutions that had been unanimously adopted in opposition to the Government's proposal. These resolutions, I may add, were not carried at hole and corner meetings, but at representative gatherings, and they should have added weight because they represent the opinion of local governing bodies which do not, as a rule, express opinions concerning political matters. They have done so in this instance because the price of sugar vitally affects the interests of both urban and rural communities in every part of the Commonwealth. Among the communications which have come to me are the following - 
I have been instructed to forward you, as hereunder, a copy of a resolution passed by my board on the 9th instant, and trust you will be successful in securing the support of your fellow members in opposing a renewal of the agreement - 

 Copy of Resolution. 


 Mr. Gray moved and  Mr. Dawson  seconded that this board emphatically protest against the renewal of the sugar agreement, and request our representatives in the Federal Parliament to use their best endeavours to prevent the exploitation of the. people of the State by definitely opposing a renewal of the agreement. 
At a meeting of the above board on the 7th instant, a resolution was carried unanimously protesting against the continuation of the sugar agreement. It is hoped you will use your vote and influence against the ratification of the agreement when it comes before your House, and I would be pleased if you will acquaint your Western Australian colleagues of the board's desire. 
These resolutions faithfully represent the general feeling in Western Australia in opposition to the existing high price of sugar, and are an emphatic protest against the proposal of the Government to renew the agreement, not only for the life of this Parliament, but also for five years from the 1st September, 1936. As a representative of Western Australia, I protest strongly against the renewal of the agreement over the life of a Parliament which has not yet been elected. Other communications which I have received are as follows - 
Busselton Municipal Council wish you enter emphatic protest against renewal sugar agreement. Town Clerk. 
Melville Road Board. 
At the last meeting of this board consideration was given to the ratification of the Sugar Agreement, and I was directed to advise you of the resolution in this connexion passed by this board, which is as follows: - 
Recognizing the importance of the sugar industry to Australia, and that some protection is necessary, but in view of the allegedly exorbitant profits being made by the industry, this board is of the Opinion that a royal commission should be appointed to investigate the facts and make recommendations as to reasonable protection and the selling price of sugar and this board protests against any renewal of the agreement until the commission is appointed and makes known its decision. 
I trust you will give this matter serious consideration, and act accordingly. 
I forwarded a copy of the last communication to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  for his information. I did not endorse the suggestion that a royal commission should be appointed, but I asked the right honorable gentleman to refer the proposed renewal of the agreement to the Tariff Board for investigation and report. Every other Australian industry desiring to secure even a small measure of tariff protection is required to appear before the board and give evidence in support of its claim. Not so the opulent sugar industry. It is permitted to enjoy the whole of the Australian market absolutely without fear of competition. I regret that the Prime Minister, in acknowledging my letter, did not give an undertaking that he would comply with my request to refer the agreement to the Tariff Board. Instead he enclosed a copy of a pamphlet, dealing with the industry, prepared by the Minister for Trade and Customs. 
Wagin Municipal Council. 
At the last meeting ofmy council, held on the 2nd instant, the question of the ratification of the sugar agreement was discussed and the following resolution was passed: - 
This council protests against the continuation of the sugar agreement and that the Federal Senators and Representatives be requested to use their vote and influence against the ratification of the agreement. 
I would be glad if you would enter this protest on behalf of my council. 
Greenbushes Road Board. 
I have been directed to inform you that the Green bushes Road Board has passed the following resolution: - 
That the Greenbushes Road Board strongly protests against the extension of the existing agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the sugar interests, and considers that in order to stop the unfair exploitation of the people, the terms of any new agreement should be so definitely framed us to ensure to the public a. substantial reduction in the price of sugar. 
Northam Road Board. 
At a recent meeting of the above board indignation at the action of the Prime Minister in extending the sugar agreement for a further term of five years, was expressed and a motion of protest against the ratification of the agreement was carried unanimously. 
I was directed to convey the above information to you with the request that you do your utmost to defeat any motion for the ratification of the agreement. 
The board has written a letter to  Mr. E.  J. Craigie, of the South Australian Parliament, supporting him in his efforts to prevent the sugar agreement being continued in its present form. 

 Mr. Craigie now suggests that we write to  Mr. H.  Gregory and yourself to express the board's opinion as well. 
The board is of opinion that the continuance of the agreement in its present form constitutes an imposition to Western Australians, and I hereby authorize you to use its name in protesting strongly against the ratification of same. The population of this district is 3,794. 
The resolution passed by the ArmadaleKelmscott Road Board was the outcome of a circular issued by the parties opposed to the renewal of the agreement. It was the result of organized propaganda. 
When the former Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  visited Western Australia some years ago, I was privileged to attend a number of meetings at which he delivered addresses. On every occasion the right honorable gentleman was questioned about the attitude of the Government to the sugar industry, and being a masterly tactician, he skilfully evaded committing his Government to any definite line of action contrary to the sugar embargo. 
I am entirely opposed to the renewal of the agreement and if my vote could effect its rejection, it would be cast in that direction. Western Australian producers would be able to sell more of their surplus commodities to adjacent countries if in return they were permitted to purchase the goods which those countries produce, including sugar. 
Our complaint against federation is that the industries of Western Australia are prejudiced by embargoes and high tariffs. We are compelled to purchase nearly all our requirements from highly protected industries in the eastern States, and we are obliged to sell our surplus primary products in the open markets of the world. 
I do not believe in prohibitive tariffs or embargoes, and I contend that neither is necessary for the preservation of the Queensland sugar industry. It was well established and was expanding satisfactorily long before the first agreement providing for an embargo was made. One of the most regrettable features of the agreement and the embargo is its effect upon the industry itself. Its terms definitely restrict the area to be cultivated for sugar-cane and thus prevent an expansion of the industry. 
In regard to the remarks which have been made by various honorable senators concerning the distribution of £7,000,000 in bonus shares by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company last year I agree entirely with the view that this is a very efficient and well-run organization. If comment has been made on this distribution without taxation and on the fact that the profits of the company this year exceed £900,000, it arises from the fact that the industry is protected under this embargo. The profits of other companies have been referred to, but these concerns do not get, by special legislation, monopolistic benefits from this Parliament, such as are given to the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. 
The other companies benefit from prohibitive duties. 
I shall now refer to certain quotations extracted by  Mr. E.  J. Craigie from a speech made by the present Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White),  concerning the sugar industry, before he became a Minister of the Crown. In  Hansard  of the 17th November, 1932,  Mr. White  is reported as having said - 
To-day we have heard the praises of the State of Queensland sung from all parts of the House. . . . The boast has been made that there is no opposition to the agreement, but I, myself, do not see eye to eye with its supporters. . . . Every person in the Commonwealth is to some extent a consumer of sugar, and if honorable members consider the matter for one moment, they will be forced to admit that any possible reduction in the price of sugar should be brought about. 
I agree with the views which  Mr. White  expressed on that occasion. 
Why, then, should we unanimously accept this agreement? There is nothing to congratulate ourselves upon in having secured a reduction of½d. per lb. We can go much further. 
Yet to-day  Mr. White  is prepared to renew this agreement for another five years without making any further reduction of the price of sugar or instituting any fresh inquiry into the position of the industry. Dealing with the enormous profits of the Colonial SugarRefining Company,  Mr. White,  on the same occasion, said - 
There are also included the enormous depreciations that have been made. Who has been responsible for these bonuses and the increase from the initial value of £20, in the case of the shares that were paid for, to a value of £54 or £55 ? Have these  profits  descended from the air? . . . They have been taken from the consumers of Australia to the extent of £7,000,000 more than would have been the case but for this agreement. A reduction of  id.  in the price of sugar represents a difference of £1,750,000 to the Australian people. If, as a result of an inquiry, the reduction could be made1d., and thus double the saving, would not honorable members support it? 

 Mr. White asked this question in 1932; I ask it to-day of honorable senators. 1 intend to support the amendment for a reduction of the price of sugar by½d. per lb., which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has intimated he will move.  Mr. Craigie's  article continued - 
Replying. to an interjection by  Mr. Riordan,  that if the leaders of the Housewives Associations were given a job, " they would quickly forget all about sugar,"  Mr. White  said: " That is an insult to an organization which voluntarily in conjunction with other organizations, primary producers and manufacturers, has endeavoured to prove that the price of sugar is too high. There are many pertinent facts awaiting disclosure. Unquestionably, inordinate profits are being made. If it can be proved that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company is a. monopoly, and as such is exploiting the people, there is room for inquiry." 
Although  Mr. White  made these remarks, and despite the fact that to-day, as Minister for Trade and Customs, he has the power to refer this matter to the Tariff Board, I regret to say that he has not influenced the Government to carry into effect my request that the sugar embargo should be referred to that body, as he professed to be anxious to do in 1932. Continuinghis remarks on the occasion to which I have referred,  Mr. White  said - 
Monopolies are one of the greatest evils that arise out of excessive protection or embargoes.  . . Because of the absence of competition, the Colonial SugarRefining Company enjoys a monopoly, and monopolies, as I have said, are one of the evils that grow up behind embargoes and excessive tariffs. . . . Because of the absence of competition the Colonial SugarRefining Company enjoys  a  monopoly, and monopolies, as I have said, arc one of the evils that grow up behind embargoes and excessive tariffs . . . The Colonial Sugar Defining Company ... is able to exploit the public by means of price fixation. I think that price-fixing iswrong, and it is wrong for this Parliament to support the practice. 
I agree entirely with  Mr. White,  as he expressed himself on that occasion; but, if it was wrong for Parliament to support the practice of price-fixing in 1932, I ask why he has introduced this particular measure to-day, and why the Government, of which he is a prominent and distinguished Minister, has approved of this agreement. I urge honorable senators who still hold the views which  Mr. White  expressed in 1932 to reject this bill to-night. In the pamphlet entitled  The Case Against the Sugar Embargo,  written by  Mr. Craigie,  M.P., the following appears :  - 
Emphasis must be placed upon the fact already submitted that it is not the canegrowers who get the advantage of the embargo. Although Australian consumers had to pay £23 18s.6d. per ton for raw sugar 'during the past, year - 1933-34 - the cane-grower did not get that amount. As already shown about one-half of the raw sugar was sold overseas at £86s.6d. per ton, so that the actual price received by the cane-grower for his raw sugar was £106s. 3d. Are Australian consumers going to tamely submit to an extension of an agreement for a further five years period from 1st September, 1930, and pay nearly £24 for raw sugar here, when the same quality sugar is sold overseas at £8? The time is ripe for active protest. 
The embargo exploits consumers to the extent of nearly £7,000,000 per annum. This is a matter that vitally affects the well-being of all the people.For this reason it cannot be safely left to political panties to handle. The people are fleeced., and the people themselves must act, if they desire to be freed from the tentacles of the sugar octopus in the future. A special effort must be made to prevent this scandalous agreement being ratified for another five years term. 
Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide. 
That moment is here in regard to the sugar monopoly, andwe ask the people to rise in their might and abolish this special privilege for alltime. 
I intend to support the amendment to  be  moved by  Senator Duncan-Hughes. 
It provides that at the expiration of two years the retail price of sugar shall be further reduced by½d. per lb. I would much prefer the reduction to be made in -September next, when the present agreement expires. I am quite unable to yield to the blandishments of my eloquent friend  Senator Brown  from Queensland and support the bill. I believe that the people of Australia are being exploited to the amount of £6,000,000 annually in connexion with one of the most vital commodities in daily use. I intend to vote against the bill as  a  protest against the continuation  of  the "embargo, and to support the amendment to be moved by  Senator Duncan-Hughes. 
I have listened most attentively to the debate throughout the day, and the position, so far as I can understand it,  is  that the industry is being carried on efficiently The cane is being grown and cut under the most economical conditions,  and the  mills are well equipped and satisfactorily conducted. I do not think that any honorable senator disputes that. Moreover, I do not think that any  one in  this chamber wishes to do anything to injure the industry. We are, however, living under artificial conditions, because at present many industries are benefited  or  their activities influenced in one way or another by the imposition of customs duties, import and export quotas, embargoes, and so on.  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  who discussed this subject from a different angle has not denied any  of  the statements made by those who favour a renewal of the agreement. He said that  the  present condition is due to the artificial conditions under which the industry is conducted, and no one who has  spoken  since has challenged the accuracy  of  his statement.  Senator Allan  MacDonald endeavoured to prove the correctness of the honorable senator's logic. He said that when in the north he discussed the position with a Scot and suggested  the scaling down of the price by½d. per lb., he induced in Scotia's son a condition akin to collapse. Such a suggestion to a wheat-grower would only cause him to question the mentality of the  speaker.  He would know that it would be impossible for parliamentarians to do this because the price depends upon world parity. While the sugar industry is carried on under such artificial conditions those connected with it will be living in continual dread. I do not think that such conditions should continue. It is unreasonable to extend the agreement for five years. No one can say what the general world position will be in that time. I intend to oppose the bill, because I do not think that a renewal of the agreement for such a lengthy period is fair to the consumers, or to those engaged in the industry. 
It has been most refreshing to listen to  Senator Johnston  debating this, subject from an angle entirely different from that from which other honorable senators have viewed it. Until  Senator DuncanHughes  spoke this afternoon, we. had seen only one side of the picture. "Before leaving South Australia, and since I ha ve been in Canberra, in common with other honorable senators I have been deluged with letters and circulars similar to those from which  Senator Johnston  quoted to-night. I was inclined to believe that those responsible for their production were somewhat hysterical, but the Queensland representatives in this chamber appear to be in a similar state of mind. Only one honorable senator favours the removal of the embargo, so we are safe in assuming that 99 per cent, of the members of the Senate support the agreement. 
I am speaking of the Senate as it is constituted to-day. It has been said by previous speakers that Australia is now becoming accustomed to tariffs, trade treaties, preferences, quotas and embargoes, and it would appear that we have reached the stage when trade cannot be carried on without these artificial aids. We have been twitted with the fact that those engaged in the production of butter, wheat and other commodities receive government assistance; but I should like to tell those honorable senators who have mentioned the prices of butter and wheat that if the wheatgrowers received the same consideration in respect of wheat as Queensland receives in respect of sugar they would be receiving 9s. 3d. a bushel; if the butter producers were assisted to the same extent as are the sugar producers, they would be receiving 3s. a lb. for their product. We are not opposed to the embargo, but we are interested in the Government's proposals from a business standpoint. As business men, we should determine whether we are not paying too high a price for sugar, and if it is not practicable to reduce it in the interests of the Australian consumers. We do not wish to injure the industry.  Senator Crawford,  who delivered a most interesting speech on the subject, said that if the Australian consumers are paying Queensland £5,100,000 a year as a moiety towards the industry, the Queensland people were paying the Commonwealth generally more than that. For instance, he said that Queensland contributed £700,000 towards State grants, and purchased produce from the southern States valued at £4,000,000. There was another item of £400,000 making up the total I have mentioned. He overlooked the fact that the £5,100,000 paid to Queensland is distributed amongst 100,000 engaged in the industry, whereas the other transactions are between the entire populations of Queensland and the other States. 
The one which they are purchasing should be sufficient. One honorable senator said that only 23 per cent, of those engaged in the industry paid income tax, but during the last five years I do not think that 23 per cent, of other primary producers have been paying any income tax. It was refreshing to hear  Senator Brown  speak so favorably concerning the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. If he finds that there is so much good in this company cannot he find good in other similar industrial concerns which are just as beneficial to the country? The Colonial Sugar Refining Company belongs to the sugar industry. 
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company is vitally interested in the production of sugar. An honorable senator stated this afternoon, in outlining the history of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, that the enterprise was established in Sydney 90 years ago. 
I shall support the second reading of the bill. I understand that an amendment will be moved. 
I shall await the amendment to be moved by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  at the committee stage. 
I have listened with great interest to the speeches for and against the sugar agreement and I paid particular attention to the remarks of  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  Although I do not doubt the integrity and well-meaning of the South Australian committee which prepared the statistics that he quoted in reference to the effect of protection on various Australian primary and secondary industries, I consider that it compiled its figures regarding sugar on an entirely wrong basis. So. far  as  I can understand, the committee took the tonnage consumption of sugar in Australia and multiplied it by £16, which is the rebate price given to the processing enterprises which export their commodities overseas. If that is so, the committee has not taken into consideration the fact that, had this sugar not been produced in Australia, it would have had to bo imported; freight and other incidental charges would have amounted to approximately £3 a ton, which would have reduced the price, on that basis, to £13 instead of £16. Then again, it must be remembered that, had Australia not produced its quota of sugar, the world's markets would have contained that amount less; and there is a possibility that the world's market price would have been higher than is computed in the figures compiled by the committee. Imported sugar, too, would have been subject to the 25 per cent, rate of exchange. In view of these considerations, the figures quoted by  Senator Divncan-Hughes,  although they have been compiled by a highly qualified committee, hardly convey the true position. 
Various speeches to-day have dealt with the sugar industry from all angles; statistics have been quoted and the economic position of the industry has been examined. In a few brief words, I desire to treat this- subject on a broad national basis, and to analyse what I consider is the national value of the industry to Australia. During the " 80's ", Queensland was regarded as a tropical country, practically unsuitable for occupation or development by a white population. The  Moreton Bay Courier  of 1852 published a leading article in which reference was made to the difficulty of obtaining labour to carry on work, not in northern Queensland, but in southern Queensland. The newspaper advocated the importation of labour from Java and Ceylon. Another suggestion was that Eurasians would probably be  better  than either Javanese or Cingalese for developing the northern areas; but this proposal was wrecked on the theory that, as these persons possessed a certain amount of white blood in their veins, they would not be able to stand up  to  the conditions of work in that part of Queensland. The first sugar plantations in Queensland were commenced in the vicinity of Brisbane. At present, Brisbane has a population of about 300,000 white people, who, in respect of health, yield to no other community in Australia. At one time is was thought that the tropical division of Queensland had no future whatever, but large tracts of land along the coast were leased for banana-growing  and sugar-planting. The labour problem became so acute that the decision was made to indent Kanaka labour from the Pacific Islands. The experiment was tried and it very nearly ruined Queensland. The Kanakas brought with them virulent tropical diseases - malaria was rampant - and they not only died in great numbers, but they spread the infection 10 their white overseers. So great was the mortality that the expectation of life among white males in Queensland was 41.3 years, which was more than 12 per cent, lower than the average for any other part of Australia. As a matter of fact, in 1884 the death rate in Queensland was 50 per cent, higher than in any other part of Australia. I recall this history in an endeavour  to show what  a mistake was made then in bringing black indentured labour to the tropical sugar plantations of Queensland. Just about that period the rush to the Queensland gold-fields ended and- many thousands of men found themselves without work. Numbers of them left the State; and even greater numbers, who had capital, invested it in agricultural or pastoral pursuits; but a large proportion of them were left utterly without means, and they had, perforce, to look for work. Some of them were compelled to compete with the Kanakas for labour in the cane-fields and it was not long before they demanded, in the land of their birth or adoption, a standard of living at least equal to that enjoyed by persons in other avocations. 
That occurred in theeighties. However, the progress and settlement of the north did not really begin until the year of federation, 1901. The sudden impetus which settlement then received was largely owing to Queensland's entering the federation and receiving an assurance from the Commonwealth Parliament that if it would get rid of the indentured Kanaka labour some measure of protection would be granted to the sugar industry. A factor which contributed largely to the subsequent rapid progress was the large amount of work which had been done in building roads, railways, and harbours to open up and develop the country. 
I understand that when Queensland entered the federation there was an understanding that the State should return the Kanakas to the Pacific Islands. 
Until the dawn of federation Queensland was regarded as being a most unhealthy place in which to live and work; now it holds the premier position in vital statistics. How has this change come about? The climate has not altered and the northern portion of the State is still geographically in the tropics, yet the white population resident in that latitude is thriving. One reason lies in the measures taken successfully to combat the tropical diseases to which Northern Queensland had hitherto been subject; and another cause was the definite exclusion from industry of races which have a lower standard of living, a greater susceptibility to disease, and a higher rate of reproduction, than the whites. The third reason is to be found in the natural-born residents of those parts. This is of great importance, as it shows that under proper conditions the white race can not only live and work in tropical Queensland, but can also raise healthy and virile children. The population resident in the tropics numbers 250,000. Amongst the statistics upon which the vitality of nations is assessed, is the death rate of infants under one year of age. The infantile death rate in Queensland is remarkably low. Only in one year between 1913 and 1928 was the rate of infant mortality in Queensland greater than for the whole of the Commonwealth. That was in 1919, when Queensland suffered an exceptionally severe drought. For the rest of that period the rate was about 7 per cent, higher for Australia as a whole than for Queensland. In 1925 the deaths among infants under the age of twelve months in Queensland were only 45 for every 1.000 children - the lowest for any State. As tropical Queensland was regarded as a most unhealthy place 50 years ago, it will be seen that conditions have changed considerably during the last  ha-M century. The latest figures available in relation to the deaths of children up to nine years- of age- are those for 1921-22. They show that the deaths in Queensland were fewer  per capita  than for Australia as a whole. In- the eighties- the expectation of life in Queensland was 41.3 years ; in 1921-22 it was 56 years. The climate of North Queensland is now unequalled from a health point of view. The following table contains an interesting comparison : - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_57_12.jpg"></graphic>

When the Kanakas were deported from Queensland in 1905 and 1906, it was thought by many that the sugar industry was doomed. At that time the total annual yield of sugar was 152,259 tons, but in 1934, when the whole of the crop was cut, gathered and milled by white labour, the yield had increased to 660,000 tons. The colonization of North Queensland depends almost entirely upon the sugar industry.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  asked what would become of that area if the over-production of sugar continued. I point out that the colonization of North Queensland by the sugar industry has enabled the Atherton Tableland, which is as large as the whole of the arable land of Tasmania, to be opened up for dairying, maize growing and pig raising. The sugar districts are to the primary producers of the Atherton Tableland what the cities in the south are to those engaged in primary production in the southern States.  Senator Allan  MacDonald when at Millaa Millaa, at the back of Innisfail, probably saw hundreds of men engaged in dairying and maize growing, because of the home market provided by those engaged in the production of sugar. If this great industry is to continue to maintain a population in North Queensland, we must ensure to those engaged in it a reasonable standard of living, and not expect them to come down to the standard of coloured sugar-workers in other lands. As has frequently been pointed out in this chamber, Queensland is the only country in the world where sugar is grown by white labour.  The  white- workers engaged in that industry should enjoy a standard of living' equal to that of their fellow- workers inother industries in this country. It is impossible to ensure to them that standard of living without giving to the sugar industry a measure of protection against the competition of other sugarproducing countries,, where cheap coloured labour is employed. Other honorable senators- have quoted statistics and dealt with the economic value to Australia of the sugar industry. I have endeavoured to place before the Senate a different aspect. I ask honorable senators to make it possible for the workers engaged in the sugar industry to enjoy that standard of living which we desire to give to the workers in other industries. 
In conclusion, I would like to point out that in less than 60 years a strip of country, practically 1,000 miles long, which at one time was considered to be the  mo3t  unhealthy part of Australia, and unfit for white people to live 'and work in, has been changed to a healthy district supporting an ever-increasing white population. This state of affairs has been made possible by the consistent improvement of conditions in the sugar industry. I strongly support the bill. 
.- All honorable senators must have been pleased to hear the remarks of  Senator Cooper,  who spoke of the strong, virile, healthy race which is being built up in North Queensland, but they appear to conflict with the claim that higher wages should be paid to workers in tropical North Queensland, because of the unhealthy climate. I have been to North Queensland, and I agree with  Senator Cooper  that, although the climate is hot and the atmosphere humid, white men can work there and remain healthy. 
It is frequently claimed that high rates are paid to workers in the cane-fields. 
 They are high compared with the wages paid to other Australian workers. 
There are many other seasonal occupations in this country, and I agree that the rates should be higher than where the employment is regular and continuous. In speaking of high rates, I was expressing, not my own opinion, but what has frequently been said by others. 

 Senator Allan MacDonald compared the incomes of residents of South Australia with the incomes of residents of Queensland. Unfortunately for the honorable senator, he took the wrong figures. He based his argument on incomes of £1,000 and upwards. It would appear from the remarks of supporters of the sugar agreement that not many sugargrowers in Queensland make a net profit of £1,000 per annum. 
I find that, whereas 28,S99 taxpayers in Queensland with taxable incomes of between £50 and £750 per annum have a total taxable income of £3,669,681, upon which they pay £64,150 a year in taxes, there are only 12,647 taxpayers in South Australia with incomes between those limits, their taxable income being only £1,247,000, or less than one-third of that of the corresponding group in Queensland, and their income tax payments only £21,4-44. 
I am not in a position to say if that is true. I have merely quoted these figures in reply to the remarks of  Senator Allan  MacDonald who led us to believe that the taxpayers of South Australia were so much better off than those of Queensland. 
As to the agreement itself, I would bo one of the last to interfere with an industry in Queensland or any other State ; but I maintain that the agreement in its present form is not in the best interests of the people of Australia. I do not favour the imposition of embargoes ; but I am certainly in favour of high protective duties in order to safeguard Australian industries. It may be argued that there is very little difference between a high protective duty and an embargo. I do not subscribe to that, view, and I ask honorable senators to note that an embargo has not been imposed for the protection of any other Australian industry. 
It would have to bear some agreed-upon ratio to the world price of sugar; and it should so operate as to give adequate protection. I have no desire to see Australia flooded with sugar produced in countries employing cheap coloured labour. It may be urged that the high protection given to the carbide industry in Tasmania is equivalent to an embargo. There may be something in that contention, but the point to remember is that the industry is not protected by an embargo. I admit the wisdom of fixing a home- consumption price for sugar in order to ensure a reasonable return for those who have invested their capital in the industry, but some regard should be had for the interests of consumers. In New Zealand the price of sugar ranges from 2¾d. to 3d. per lb. after paying duty, and I understand that New Zealand draws its supplies from the Colonial Sugar Refining Company's refineries in Fiji. 
I accept the honorable senator's correction. I was under the impression that a portion of the output of Fiji was sold in New Zealand. 
I agree with  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that in the interests of consumers there should be a scaling down of the price under the new agreement, but I am not prepared to go the whole way with the honorable gentleman. If the existing price were retained for two years an inquiry might be made in the meantime with a view to a reduction of the price to Australian householders. We all know that high prices are paid for Queensland sugar land. 
I venture the opinion that if two contiguous areas of land were put up for sale and in respect of one there had been issued a licence to grow sugar-cane, the price realized for that land would be very much higher than that for the block without the licence. 
A good deal has been said in this discussion about the profits of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. We all know that the issue of bonus shares has increased enormously the- capitalization of the company. Some years ago it established an off-shoot in Fiji called the Colonial Sugar Refining (Fiji and New Zealand) with a capital of approximately £1,000,000 issued in free bonus shares to Australian shareholders, and, in the course of one or two years, so great were its profits, that the whole of the new capital indebtedness was returned to the shareholders in cash. 
Profits do not come from nowhere ; they come out of the company's activities, whether in Australia or other parts of the world. I agree with  Senator Brown,  who said this afternoon that most honorable senators would be very glad indeed if, by some stroke of good fortune, they could become shareholders in this prosperous company. 
I intend to vote against the second reading of the bill because its purpose is to ratify an agreement which cannot be altered by this Parliament. We must either accept it word for word and lino for line, or reject it. In its present form I do not feel inclined to accept it, so I shall vote against the second reading. 
I also direct the attention of the Minister in charge of the bill to the following clause in the schedule^ 
That the Queensland Government if and when requested by the Commonwealth Government, shall establish a sugar depot at Hobart. 
Every one knows that whenever there is a dislocation of shipping - and that has happened often in recent years - there is imminent risk of a grave shortage of sugar in Tasmania. There is, at the present time, danger of another hold up of shipping and I read in Tuesday's issue of the Hobart  Mercury  a report that the Grocers Association of Hobart had telegraphed to the Prime Minister asking him what steps the Government proposed to take to ensure a continuity of supplies of sugar for Hobart. If a depot had been established in that city as there has been in every capital city on the mainland, provision would be made for reserve supplies. With the small fruits season coming on, there is a largely increased demand for sugar, and it is absolutely essential that the quantity available shall be ample for requirements because small fruits must be processed on the day of delivery at the factory. A delay of 24 hours may be disastrous to the growers, and manufacturers. 
The merchants make what provision is possible, but whenever a dislocation of shipping is threatened there is a rush on existing stocks and, such is the psychology of the people, every householder at once commences to hoard sugar. Instead of purchasing in lots of 1 dozen lb., people order bag lots. 
There was a shortage about a fortnight ago when the  Zealandia  and  Talune  were held up. 
But there are depots in all other capital cities of the mainland. I am surprised that  Senator Foll  should talk such absolute twaddle. He must know that there is no comparison between the position of citizens of North Queensland and citizens of Tasmania because, for one thing, the people- of Queensland are not producers of small fruits which, as I have stated, must be processed on the day of delivery at the factory. It would be of no use to tell the processing companies that they could get supplies in a week or a fortnight. 
They have been doing all that is possible to do. I  am  now asking the Government to see that the Queensland Government carries out its undertaking to establish a depot in Hobart. 
Certainly. The clause reads as follows: - 
That the Queensland Government if and when requested by the Commonwealth Government shall establish a sugar depot at Hobart provided that the Commonwealth Government  shall  not make such a request unless the request be accompanied by evidence proving that a general shortage of sugar has occurred in  Hobart  which is due to wholesale merchants in Hobart or the Queensland Sugar board failing to adhere to the present arrangements whereby special reserve stocks of sugar arc supplied to and held by such merchants. 
There  ha3  been a definite shortage in Hobart for which the merchants cannot be held responsible. It is now the duty of the Commonwealth Government to make representations to the Queensland Government for the establishment of a depot in Hobart. 
A great deal has been said already upon this subject and I do not wish to weary the Senate at this late hour by making a lengthy speech, but I cannot record my vote for or against the bill without making known my views thereon. The sugar agreement is a vital one to the people of Tasmania. Sugar is a commodity which is in general use. If the price is high, consumers are adversely affected. Some time ago there was an agitation for reduction of the price and as the result an arrangement was made for a reduction of  id.  per lb. I have no desire to do anything that might prejudice the position of the sugar growers of Queensland. I have some knowledge of their industry, having visited the State on more than one occasion, and I know that, for some years, cane growing has not been a lucrative occupation. No large profits are being made from cane-growing in Queensland. One reason for this is to be found in the conditions which have been applied to the industry through legislation passed with the expressed approval of the majority of the people of Australia. 
I emphasize the point that we have forced upon the people engaged in cane-growing in Queensland certain labour conditions which have to be observed, and that, as the result of these circumstances, combined with occasional adverse seasons, the cane-grower to-day does not find the industry very lucrative. This being so, we have to ask ourselves what would be the result if the majority of honorable senators approved of the suggestions made to them in circulars which they have received from various municipal bodies throughout Australia. I can visualize the hardships which would be inflicted upon this section of primary producers in Queensland were such suggestions to be adopted. Those engaged in the sugar industry, particularly the cane-growers, have so built up this industry that to-day it is regarded as one of the most efficient in Australia. I realize to the full the apparent injustice of the arrangement by which a large .portion of the crop is exported and sold overseas at about one third of the price which the people of Australia have to pay for their requirements. But the reason for this is that the output of sugar has increased beyond all expectations during the last twenty years. Details published in the  YearBook  show that in 1914 the output of cane sugar in Queensland was 225,800 tons; in 1920 it had dropped to 167,000 tons, due mainly to adverse seasonal conditions; but in 1925-26 it rose to 479,000 tons, whilst last year the output totalled 680,000 tons. That enormous increase has not been accompanied by a corresponding increase of the number of consumers in Australia. 
The population of Australia has not increased threefold since 1914. If it had, we would not be discussing this bill to-night. The problem we have to solve- to-day is : How can the price of sugar to the Australian consumer be reduced until our population is increased? It ought to be apparent to every one that we cannot continue to protect  thi3  industry to the extent to which it has been protected for years past, unless our population rapidly increases. Each year the industry goes from bad to worse, and the more sugar that is produced the greater the loss, in the aggregate, suffered by the community. 
If the majority of the people of Australia would agree to a reduction of the cost of production in this industry, conditions would be improved materially, but that can only be done by legislation, and I remind honorable senators that by legislation this Parliament increased the cost of production. The whole responsibility in this matter rests entirely upon the Australian community. By legislation the cost of production of sugar has been forced up, and now the community must pay. Figures which I examined to-day show that the Commonwealth consumes 55 per cent, of the sugar crop, leaving 45 per cent, to be exported. The cost of production is from £18 to £19 a ton for raw sugar, including five per cent, interest on the capital invested in cane farms. The 45 per cent, of the crop exported returns only £8 a ton, the loss on this portion being from £10 to £11 a ton, or a total of approximately £3,000,0000.  We shall have to study very carefully the policy of this Parliament so far as the future of this industry is concerned. I cannot convince myself that we are justified in taking action to-day which might conceivably bring about very great distress among this section of our primary producers. I am familiar with this industry and I can easily foresee that if we do anything now to inflict losses on the cane-producers - I am not at all concerned here with the interests of the refining companies - many years might elapse before the resultant distress could be alleviated. However, the authorities should endeavour immediately to devise some means whereby restrictions could be imposed to avoid excess production. This perhaps could be done by systematically decreasing production. Furthermore, the Commonwealth Government and the State governments should co-operate in a policy with the object of rapidly increasing our population and consequently the consumers. There are thousands of children to-day in the United Kingdom who will never have a chance in life if they remain in their native land. For these children there is ample room in Australia; I suggest that they could be brought out to this country and housed, trained and educated in farm schools, such as the Fairbridge Farm School, in Western Australia, to take their place as citizens of Australia. That would be a beginning to the policy I have suggested. The two proposals which I have made should be carefully considered by the Government, and I believe that if they are put into operation, within ten years complaints that Australians have to pay too much for sugar would cease. I have not been inundated with correspondence concerning this matter; in fact, I have been surprised at the paucity of communications from my own State. I have received only one such Tasmanian communication, and that was sent to me by a small municipality, which urged me to support a resolution based upon  Mr. Craigie's  circular. I have received no request from any individuals or associations to oppose the renewal of this agreement. On the contrary, I have been requested by a very important section of primary producers - the small fruits producers' association - to support its ratification. The fruit producers are to continue to receive the relief given to them a year or two ago and that relief, which is provided by the sugar industry, has proved their salvation. I support the bill. 
 But for the intense campaign that has been carried on in opposition to the ratification of this agreement, and the number of letters that honorable senators generally have received on this matter from different interests, I would not have spoken on this measure. However, I now feel that I would not be justified in casting a silent vote. 
That the maintenance of the sugar industry is. of vital importance to the welfare of Australia cannot be denied. This view is based upon the following grounds : First, we know how effective the industry has been in peopling and developing the north; secondly, we realize that the industry plays a very important part in the preservation of our most cherished ideal - a White Australia ;  thirdly, we recognize the contribution which the industry has made, and is still making, towards the solution of our employment problem; and, fourthly, we realize the part the industry undoubtedly plays in the defence of our great country. The main question which has exercised the minds of honorable senators in considering this measure is: " What is the lowest figure at which the price of sugar should be fixed in order to enable the industry to continue ? " The main difference of opinion which has occurred among honorable senators seems to be on that point. In this bill, which represents the Government's views, 4d. per lb. is considered to be a fair price. That figure is supported by very exhaustive and complete evidence, secured as the result of the most thorough inquiries into the industry. Those opposed to the bill, particularly  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  would like to see a scaling down of this price; they have suggested a reduction of $d. per lb. However, very little evidence has been presented in support of such a proposal. Let us look at the industry. We know that it is established principally in the far north of Queensland, in coastal areas extending for 1,000 miles from Townsville to Cairns. That area is as fertile as any other part of the world, and is certainly most admirably suited for the cultivation of sugar. Figures have been produced showing the marked increase of population in those areas since the sugar industry was established. I emphasize the point that no honorable senator desires to destroy the industry. However, I am afraid that if the proposals of opponents of this measure were adopted we might take a step, even in good faith, that would result in the destruction of the industry. Readily as I would support a reduction of the price of sugar if it were practicable, the evidence in support of such a step has not been sufficient to persuade me to take such a risk. It has been suggested that dairying could take the place of canegrowing in the far north of Queensland. Such is not the case. The land is very fertile, the heat intense, and the climate exceedingly wet. The rainfall ranges from about 100 to 160 inches a year, whereas on the north coast of New South 
Wales, one of the principal dairying districts in Australia, the average rainfall is from 50 to 70 inches. In addition to a greater degree of heat, there i3 double the rainfall. I was privileged to visit the sugar-growing districts some time ago, where I found that in addition to those engaged in the production of sugar there were a few dairy farmers. The condition of their homesteads, their herds and their farm improvements clearly indicated that the area was entirely unsuitable for dairying. Of course, on the tablelands dairying can be carried on profitably, as the climate, rainfall and conditions generally are satisfactory. Are we, by our vote, to injure the important sugar industry? One honorable senator stated, by interjection, that  -Sir Hal  Colebatch had said that this vast area on which sugar is now being successfully produced could be used for the production of tomatoes. It is ridiculous to suggest that a tract of fertile land 1,000 miles in length and up to 50 miles wide should be devoted to the production of tomatoes. 
Although the honorable senator is asked to ratify the agreement for five years he i3 prepared, if the circumstances arise, to do something te upset the agreement. If any industry were threatened, and an agreement would save it, there would be only one thing to do. Only to avert a national calamity would we be justified in suspending this agreement, which is to remain operative for five years. The present agreement was signed in 1931, and under it the retail price of sugar was fixed at 4£d. per lb. If objection had not been raised, the Australian consumers would still have been paying that price. Although the agreement was not violated, the retail price was voluntarily reduced to 4d. per lb. Similar action may be taken before the new agreement expires. We have, however, the satisfaction of knowing that a reduction has been made during the last three or four years.  Senator Johnston  said quite definitely that he is opposed to an embargo in any shape or form, and that he would prefer the conditions under which the industry is being conducted to be investigated by the Tariff Board. That board conductsinvestigations with a view to recommending reasonable rates of duty that, while protecting Australian industries will allow competition from the outside world. In respect of no other primary industry has investigation by the Tariff Board been suggested. We have either to preserve the sugar industry for the Australian people or to agree to the imposi tion of a certain rate of duty which may give others an opportunity to destroy it. I admit that the price which the consumers pay is high, but what is the alternative?  Senator Johnston,  who said that he is a strong supporter of .the White Australia policy, would prefer that the Western Australian people should be permitted to purchase their supplies of sugar from Java. Would such trade be in keeping with the ideal of a White Australia? The honorable senator cannot have it both ways. If he believes in a White Australia, he should support this agreement. 
Yes, we get certain commodities that we require from that country and the Javanese purchase certain Australian products. We have to consider the maintenance of our Whits Australia policy, and I shall not do anything that will result in driving one Australian out of a job and allow his place to be taken by a Javanese. 
Why is butter sold in Australia at such a high price? Australian butter can be transported 11,000 miles and sold at a cheaper rate than the Australian consumer pays because we produce more butter than we require. For years the Australian consumer has paid sufficient to provide a profit on the whole production, notwithstanding the loss on the butter sold on the other side of the world. The accuracy of that statement cannot be denied. If we did not export butter, the price in Australia would not be so high as it is to-day. If we did not export sugar the Australian consumers would not be required to pay 4d. per lb. for it. 
The local consumer of butter pays a price sufficient to make good the loss on every pound sold overseas, and to provide a profit on the total quantity produced. 
If he did not he would go out of business. About one-half of the sugar grown in Australia is exported at a low price, and Australian consumers have to pay a higher price for their requirements in order to make up the loss and to enable a small profit to be made on the total production. The same principle is involved in connexion with many other primary industries, including wheat. In a few hours we shall be considering a bill providing for the reimposition of the sales tax on flour in order to assist the wheat-growers. Thai is to be done because we produce more wheat than is required for our own purposes. The local consumer has to foot the hill to make up the loss incurred by selling overseas. Troubles such as this commence the moment a country commences to export, and when that time arrives the local consumer has to pay. The present wholesale price of sugar in Australia is about double world's parity. What does the sugar producer actually receive for his product? Somewhere between 2fd. and 3d. per lb. for the whole of his production. If he averaged 4d. I could confidently support  Senator Duncan-Hughes. 
It may be, but we have to face realities. I have addressed numerous meetings in Sydney to explain the reason for the high price of certain commodities, including butter, sugar and wheat. The fact that such Australian products sell cheaper in Britain than in Australia gives rise to considerable dissatisfaction, but after speaking in plain  language,  I have generally made my audience realize that the present prices have to be charged because we must recoup the producers whose exportable surplus hae to be sold at a loss. The people of Western Australia are far behind the times, because they have never had the position explained to them. If we pay the sugar producers only 2Jd. per lb. for their product, what will happen to them? They will be driven off their farms, and will have to exist in the cities on the dole. Those who pay 4d. per lb. for sugar are making a definite contribution to the provision of employment in northern Queensland. I am not a Queenslander, but am speaking as an Australian on behalf of an important Australian industry. If we were to adopt that attitude in regard to sugar, the same policy would have to be applied to wheat and butter; and thus we would reduce our production by half. We simply will not do that. Even if Australia does market one half of its sugar crop on the other side of the world at Jess than the cost of production, the sale, nevertheless, brings in £3,000,000 or £4,000,000 and we are better off by that sum. That fact alone should give us some . satisfaction in paying the higher price for sugar. 
I repeat, the sugar industry plays an invaluable part in the defence of Australia. Imagine those northern areas containing some of the most fertile land in the world deprived of their population. The settlers could not be kept there by engaging in any industry other than the production of sugar. When housewives pay 4d. per lb. for sugar, they are making a direct and definite contribution towards the defence of Australia, the maintenance of the White Australia policy, the keeping of men in employment, and lastly towards the development of that rich region. 
I do not by any means wholly approve of the managerial side of the sugar industry. One feature of the industry that has not been mentioned in this debate, and which I detest, is the assignment of land. Although I cannot suggest a remedy, I protest against a system by which one or two adults may occupy a sugar area and make a profitable living from it, while next to them on unassigned land is a farmer struggling to keep a family on the proceeds from, a few milch cows. On the one hand is the poor man bringing up a family, but denied the right to grow sugar ; on the other hand are two adults on the adjoining holding, permitted to cultivate sugar and reaping a rich reward. I desire to see an effort made to remedy this anomaly and give to deserving families the right to engage in the industry, even if it may curtail the activities of others. However, the bill does not deal with that aspect. 
The cost to the consumer has been bandied about this Chamber by practically every opponent of the bill. What is the position? Admittedly the protection extended to industry adds to the cost of living, but does not the price of ls. 4d. or ls. 6d. per lb. for butter and 6d. a loaf for bread also add to the cost of living? Courts take into consideration the price of these household commodities when determining the basic wage. Hence the wage-earner does get the benefit of these high prices, because the court makes its award in accordance with them. 
I  now propose to refer 'briefly to the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. I hold no brief for that enterprise; I am not its advocate, nor do I desire to be; but opponents of the sugar industry seem to have made the Colonial Sugar Refining Company the target of their attack during this debate. That company was likened to an octopus. One honorable senator mentioned that it makes a charge for financing the pool. Surely it is entitled to some compensation for performing this service. No honorable senator, not even  Senator Grant,  who made the interjection previously, would finance any concern unless he were assured of a reasonable rate of interest. The company charges .035 pence per lb. for financing the pool; 082 pence per lb. for refining the sugar; and .039 pence per lb. for selling charges throughout the Commonwealth; a total of .156 pence  per lb. In other words, if the Colonial Sugar Refining Company were to agree to finance the pool, refine the sugar, and undertake the selling of it, without making any charge for these services, the price of the commodity could he reduced by one-sixth of a penny per lb. ! Then the consumer would be asked to pay 3j&gt;d. per lb., but I venture to say that such a reduction would not affect the present cost to the  consumer, as the lowest coin in our currency is a farthing. I repeat, four considerations compel me to support this measure. While I desire to see the price of sugar as cheap as possible, I realize that the industry must live, and we cannot" afford to take any risk with it. My four reasons for supporting the bill are (1) the part the industry is playing in the development and the peopling of the north; (2) its contribution to the preservation of our most cherished ideal - the White Australia policy; (3) the part it plays in the defence of Australia; (4) the contribution it makes to the employment of our good Australian people. Because of those reasons, and because I am determined not to be a party to anything that might even prejudice the welfare of the industry, I have no hesitation in giving to the bill my wholehearted support. 
Saving followed closely the course of this debate, it has been most gratifying to me, as a representative of Queensland, to hear the industry championed by representatives of every other State, showing that there is a general recognition of the fact that the industry is not merely a Queensland interest, hut is something of vital concern to Australia as a whole. There has been, however, a concerted attack on the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, whose strength and prosperity seem to be regarded as a  reason  why the sugar agreement should not be ratified by this chamber. May I point out that even if the sugar agreement were cancelled, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company would probably still continue to refine sugar, though it would be handling the product grown under cheap labour conditions overseas, instead of sugar grown under conditions which allow for the payment of a decent wage in Queensland and northern New South Wales. By cancelling this agreement, which would lead to a collapse of the industry in Queensland, honorable senators would not smash the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. Its ramifications to-day are almost world-wide, and it is so efficient and has so many interests in other countries that it would still be very largely responsible for the distribution and refining of sugar consumed in Australia. Of course we could take action under the tariff to smash practically any industry now established in Australia. If we were to throw open the door to allow the unrestricted entry of goods produced by cheap, foreign labour, Australian industries would not be able to compete. When the last tariff debate was in progress,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, I believe, stated that any ill-advised action on the part of Parliament could " smash the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, and the entire Newcastle Iron and Steel Works. Practically every industry in Australia is in the same position; it requires to be protected by the Government. Members who have toured the sugar-growing areas in recent years have seen them in a condition of almost complete development; but I knew parts of Northern Queensland before any sugar was planted there. Much of that country was jungle, and the scrub was so dense that it was almost impenetrable. One wonders how man ever managed to reach some of those areas, much less clear the scrub and establish farms in the way that has been done. For years many families which pioneered this industry lived in humpies and sheds . and planted sugar cane between the stumps of what had been the virgin bush. But they persevered and have been a material factor in bringing the industry to its present state of development. I have never heard a more foolish suggestion than that by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  that if the sugar industry failed as a result of certain action by this Parliament, it might be rebuilt on some new foundation. 
The industry is not one which belongs only to Queensland; it is a great Australian industry. I have listened to many debates on the sugar industry, but this one has been the most comprehensive that I have ever heard. 
Some honorable senators have referred to the rates of wages paid in Queensland, inferring that the employees in the sugar industry receive a princely remuneration. The following figures, which I have collected, may serve to disabuse their minds in that regard. The basic wage in New SouthWales is £3 8s. 6d. for a man, wife and child; in Queensland, £3 14s. for a man, wife and three children; in "Western Australia, £3 10s. 6d. for a man, wife and two children. In Queensland additional allowances of 4s. 6d. and 10s. a week are made for central and northern districts respectively. The basic wage on the gold-fields areas and in other portions of the State of Western Australia, exclusive of the southwest division, is £4 4s. 4d., which is more than 10s. higher than that ruling in Queensland at present, excluding the northern parity. After having listened to the remarks of some honorable senators, one might be led to think that the employees in the sugar industry were receiving a princely salary out of all proportion to the value of the work which they do. The employees on the farms, in the mills and particularly in cane-cutting, obtain only seasonal employment, lasting for a few months each year. 
Owing to the difficulty of finding work, they cannot generally secure other occupations when the cutting season closes. Hence they have to attempt to keep themselves and their families on what they earn during the few months in which they are engaged in the industry each year. Very often married men with families are compelled to apply for unemployment relief when they are not working on the canefields. I venture to say that few, if any, honorable senators would care to go to the far northern districts and cut cane for the wages at present being paid. The cane-cutter must be an expert; an ordinary farm labourer cannot suddenly be ordered from his customary duties to undertake cane-cutting. In addition, a man must be able to stand up to the peculiar conditions of the industry. The basic wage in Queensland has not been increased since the 1st July, 1931. The working hours in that State are 44 a week, the same as in Western Australia, although in the latter State the weighted average is 45.5 hours. The following table taken from the quarterly summary of Australian statistics for June, 1935, Bulletin No. 140, pages 69 and 70, gives the weighted average wages and working hours each week in all industries, over 14 divisions of industrial groups :  - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_66_0.jpg"></graphic>

Many of the comforts which people in the southern States enjoy are denied to the cane-growers and workers of North Queensland. Medicines and some other goods are much dearer there than in the industrial centres of Sydney and Melbourne, because of the heavy freight charges from the place of manufacture. One thing which has pleased me more than anything else is that almost every person who visits North Queensland, and sees for himself the way in which the sugar industry is conducted, and the conditions of its workers, returns from those areas a champion of the industry, and an advocate of the maintenance of the existing standards. The people of Queensland, and of North Queensland especially, are always glad to see members of Parliament seeking for themselves information in relation to the industry. An examination of statistics, and of the accounts of millers and canegrowers, will reveal that there is not that profiteering which is suggested in some quarters. In the canefields of North Queensland are to be found many hundreds of typical Australian primary producers, who are trying to make homes for themselves and their families in the Australian bush. I believe that to-morrow morning, when the news goes forth that the sugar agreement has been renewed for another five years, the people in that part of Australia will be given fresh heart to go ahead with the development of Australia, and they will be grateful to theCommonwealth Parliament, and to the Senate in particular. 
.  - in reply  - During the discussion of this bill a few matters of prejudice obtruded themselves. There was much criticism of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, although it has nothing whatever to do with the sugar agreement. Having been  asked by the Prime Minister to undertake an investigation of the sugar industry, I endeavoured to ascertain all the information I could about the growing, cutting and refining of sugar. My inquiries convinced me that if there is one institution in Australia of which we should be proud, it is the efficiently conducted Colonial Sugar  Refining  Company, about which so many remarks, irrelevant 'to the bill before us, have been made during this debate. 
Another statement which, in my opinion, should not have been made is that aliens are employed in the industry. I regard all the people engaged in the production of sugar in Australia as Australians. They have been admitted to this country in accordance with its laws, and should be treated as Australians, and absorbed into our population. 
A good deal has also been said about the wonderfully virile race which is being built up in the tropical areas of North Queensland. I suggest that those statements are somewhat inconsistent with our recognition of the need for a special living allowance for officials living in tropical districts. I scarcely agree with those who say that conditions in the sugar areas are such as to produce a virile race. The people of North Queensland are like the people of Scotland, in that any weak ones among them seem to have been eliminated. I certainly saw in North Queensland some stalwart men capable of, and, in fact, performing, good hard work. 
Men working under the conditions which are met with in the cane-fields deserve greater consideration than is necessary in the case of those living in more pleasant climates, such as that of Canberra. 

 Senator Crawford somewhat alarmed me when he said that the sugar industry was on the bread line. I cannot altogether accept that statement. I went to Queensland determined that the price of sugar should be reduced from 4£d. to 3-Jd. per lb., if the reduction could be justified/ As the result of my investigation, I was convinced that if the price were reduced below 4d. per lb., there would be financial repercussions from 
Cairns to Melbourne. Although we may disagree with the basis upon which the sugar industry has been built up, we must accept the facts and take care not to do anything which might be to the detriment of Australia as a whole, apart altogether from its effect on any particular industry. In my second-reading speech I showed that the price of sugar to-day is 33 per cent, above the pre-war price. But the prices of all foodstuffs have risen since pre-war days. Food and groceries are now 46 per cent, higher than the pre-war price, and wages are up by 45 per cent. After all, a comparison with present-day prices is the only fair basis. The sugar industry is of vital importance to Australia. It has been said that it is an artificial and uneconomical industry ; but is it any more artificial than the growing of wheat in certain parts of Western Australia? If we are to have a homeconsumption price as part of the policy of Australia, it is only a question of degree whether the price of sugar in Australia shall be 4d. or 3£d. per lb. In any case, even if the price were reduced to 3fd. per lb., the average householder would not benefit to any considerable extent. 

 Senator Johnston, who is the only real opponent of this measure, criticized the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  for his apparent change of front in regard to the sugar industry.  Mr. White  was frank enough to tell the House of Representatives, as I now tell the Senate, that he had learned a great deal about the sugar industry during the last two years. 
An inquiry into the sugar industry by the Tariff Board has been urged. Many of our primary industries have been the subjects of investigation by various bodies. Wool-growing, the most important of our primary industries, was examined by a special commission. The wheat industry has been for some time the subject of an inquiry by a royal commission. The Development and Migration Commission conducted investigations into dried fruits, canned fruits and berry fruits, whilst the dairying industry was examined by a special committee set up by that commission. The citrus industry was also inquired into by that body. Primary industries have always had special consideration. Since  Senator Johnston  left his home in Western Australia to come to Canberra, news has been received that Western Australia now grows sufficient bananas for its own requirements. I advise  Senator Johnston  to sample them on his return to Western Australia for I can assure him that they are of excellent quality. 
I ask  Senator Johnston  to consider what would happen if those States which are not big producers of wheat were to say that there shall be no home-consumption price for wheat. 
The principle is the same. The objection taken by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  as to the price is a subject which we may discuss at the committee stage of the bill. I cannot understand the illogical make-up of those honorable senators who approve of the principle of a home-consumption price for wheat but would withhold the benefit of that principle from some other form of primary production. In reply to  Senator Grant,  who urged that steps should be taken to establish a depot in Hobart, as provided in clause 11 of the agreement, I am informed that during the last seven years there has never been a shortage of sugar in that city. Definite inquiries were made by officials with regard to the alleged shortage a month ago, and they stated that it was merely an alarmist report. 
The establishment of a depot in Hobart rests with the people concerned. The sugar industry is quite willing to make this provision if the merchants of Hobart will comply with the terms of the agreement and support their request by evidence of a definite shortage"; but I put it to honorable senators that in the event of a protracted dislocation of shipping due to a strike, even a well-stocked depot would not be an absolute safeguard against the depletion of reserve stocks. I conclude by expressing gratification at the generally favorable reception of the bill, and I thank honorable senators for their promised support of the measure. 
I move - 
That at the end of the clause the following words be added: "subject to that agreement toeing amended to provide that the prices of sugar referred to in Clause 5 of the agreement shall on and after the first day of September one thousand nine hundred and thirty seven be reduced by £4 7s. 6d. per ton." 
It will not be necessary for me to delay the committee very long, because I set out my views on this subject fairly fully this afternoon, when I stated that while I thought the agreement ought to be amended, I was not prepared to vote for its rejection. The purpose of the amendment is to make the agreement fairer in its operation to all sections of the people. I understand that it takes a couple of years for a crop of cane to be grown and cut, so ample notice will be given to growers before the guillotine descends, so to speak, and the price is reduced, assuming that the amendment will be carried. I do not know that I need say much on the subject of the agreement itself and why I think it should be amended, because I gave my reasons in the general debate. I fancy that I heard the Minister say something about inconsistency on my part. If so my answer is that my inconsistency- 
I am glad to hear the Minister say that. In the circumstances I shall refrain from citing an instance of glaring inconsistency on the part of some one else in this chamber. 
Having missed the opportunity to do so in committee, I desire to ask the Minister two questions. Western Australian retailers of sugar request that retailers or groups of retailers buying not less than 1,000 tons of sugar a month, should be entitled to the discount which the Queensland Sugar Board, through its agent the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, allows on purchases in such quantities. 
When I visited Queensland recently I found considerable dissatisfaction among the cane-growers, arising out of the fixation of wages and conditions of employment by the State conciliation boards. Quite a number of responsible men expressed the opinion that this agreement should provide for the hearing and determination of such matters by the Federal Arbitration Court. It was contended that this agreement, being purely a federal instrument, in as much as it is part of the fiscal policy of this Parliament, should provide that such matters should be determined by the federal court. 
As I informed honorable senators in my second-reading speech, a retail arrangement such as the honorable senator suggests, cannot be carried out under this agreement. Such a proposal involves questions which also arise in connexion with chain stores. 
I point out that the fixation of wages and conditions of employment in the industry is a matter for the State itself. However, as I informed representatives of the industry when I visited Queensland, they may, seeing that the industry is carried on in more than one State, if they are dissatisfied with the present system, invoke the aid of the Federal Arbitration Court. But this is not a matter in which the Commonwealth can interfere; it rests entirely with the industry itself. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
[11.40].-  by leave-  The Government has been informed that at a conference, held to-day, of the unions likely to be affected by the seamen's strike, and presided over by the executive officers of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, the following resolution was carried :  - 
That this conference recommends to the members of the Seamen's Union that they return to work, and that an immediate application be made to the Commonwealth Arbitration Court for a variation of the present award in an effort to rectify anomalies, and remove the objections raised by the members of the Seamen's Union to the award. 
Further, the emergency committee of the Australasian Council of Trades Unions endeavour to obtain the consent of the shipowners to facilitate an application to the Court and/or approach the Court for an early hearing of an application for a variation of the award. 
The Government has also been urged to give the officials concerned an opportunity to induce the seamen to return to work and ventilate their grievances by constitutional means,It realizes and appreciates the efforts being made by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions in this matter, and welcomes its assistance. It is therefore willing to postpone its own intended action until after the week-end, during which the Attorney-General will, at the request of union leaders, confer with representatives of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions in Melbourne. At the same time it must be made clear beyond any misunderstanding that this postponement does not arise from any uncertainty in the Government's mind as to its policy or intentions ; it is conceded only in order that a reasonable opportunity may be given to the responsible leaders of unionism to co-operate effectively for the averting of what would be a complete disaster to the seamen concerned in the strike. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this bill is to bring into operation a plan of organization to apply to wheat the principle of a home consumption price, by means similar to those already operating in respect of dairy products and dried fruits. Every one knows the difficult position in which the wheat industry has been placed in recent years owing to the consistently low prices which have ruled. It is an industry which is of very great importance in the national life of Australia. It engages the principal attention of nearly 70,000 farmers. In times of reasonable prices they have produced crops valued at £40,000,000 annually. In more recent times the value of the crop has declined to approximately £25,000,000. The decline has been due entirely to reduced prices - not to reduced production - for every one will remember the splendid response made by wheatgrowers throughout Australia to an appeal by thu Commonwealth Government early in the depression to "grow more wheat ". It is necessary in the interest of the nation that wheat producers should be paid a price which will enable them at least to carry on. The Commonwealth Government has aimed at affording them a homeconsumption price in respect of that portion of their product which is consumed in Australia. This, to some extent, affords them price conditions similar to those afforded to secondary industries, with this difference - the wheat-growers have to export a large proportion of their product, and in respect of that proportion neither the Government nor the growers can influence world prices. Action taken to bring about a homeconsumption price will establish a firm starting point for a comprehensive rural rehabilitation scheme by supplementing effectively the steps already taken to adjust farmers' debts by means of composition arrangements through the grant of £12,000,000 to the States under the Farmers' Debt Adjustment Act. 
While looking forward to a permanent solution of the wheat problem, the Government has not overlooked the need for temporary expedients to bridge a time of crisis. The grants made to the industry by this Parliament in the last few years have been as follows : - - 

<graphic href="148332193512053_71_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is recognized that the industry should not be permanently dependent upon annual grants in its times of adversity, and the Commonwealth Government in 1933 appointed a royal commission for the purpose of investigating by what means it could be placed on a permanent and stable, basis. The last grant of £4,000,000 for the 1934-35 season was made on the recommendation of the commission. One of the principal recommendations of the royal commission was that a home-consumption price should be paid for wheat, and it framed suggestions regarding the means by which this objective could be achieved. As a temporary expedient the continuation of the flour tax or excise duty was recommended, but as a permanent solution it was further recommended that a compulsory marketing scheme should be devised as a means of achieving the objective of a home-consumption price. When the Government received the report, it gave effect to its policy of consulting the Australian Agricultural Council, which was established for the purpose of securing the co-operation of all the Governments of Australia on major agricultural problems. The legal and constitutional aspects of the different means of assisting the wheat industry were considered by the council at its conference in May, 1935, and a resolution was passed that legislation should be enacted by the Commonwealth and State Parliaments to provide for organized marketing of wheat, on the lines in operation in the dairying industry. At a further meeting held in October, and attended by representatives of the Commonwealth and State Govern ments and of every section of wheat interests, the matter was again exhaustively discussed. On that occasion four proposals were considered - 
Commonwealth and State compulsory pools. 
State compulsory pools, with an excise on wheat imposed by the Commonwealth to enable a home-consumption price to be paid. 
Continuance of the flour tax. 
A plan submitted by the Commonwealth based upon the principles already embodied in legislation regarding dried fruits and dairy products. 
The general plan for compulsory pools was considered impracticable, because there was no unanimity on the subject among the State Governments. The flour tax was regarded as a stop-gap measure rather than a permanent solution. 
The following principles laid down by a sub-committee of the conference on which the wheat-growers and wheat dealers were represente'd, were unanimously approved by the conference: - 
That a home consumption price for wheat should be established. 
That the Commonwealth and State Governments should take the necessary action to provide the means to secure this homeconsumption price. 
That provision should be made to license flour-millers, and 
That wheat receivers should be licensed under a warehouse plan. 
In view of the differences of opinion expressed in the conference as to how these principles should be applied, Commonwealth and State Ministers met as the Australian Agricultural Council, and, after exhaustive discussion, passed the following resolutions unanimously: - 
The conference of State Governments generally approves the Commonwealth plan of securing a home-consumption price for wheat, and State Ministers will favorably recommend its adoption to their Governments. 
If insuperable obstacles unfortunately delay implementing the plan for the coming harvest, the conference urges the temporary reimposition of the flour tax to enable a homeconsumption price to be paid. 
The home-consumption price for wheat recommended by the conference is 4s. 9d. per bushel f.a.q., f.o.r. at seaboard. 
The success of our marketing plans as applied to dairy products and dried fruits depends on the agreement between the organized units of the industries concerned in regard to the equalization of export and home-consumption returns, and on the existence of some concentrating agency through which the product passes, namely, the butter factory in the dairying industry, and the packing shed in the dried fruits industry. 
Difficulties were found in applying the same type of legislation to the wheat industry, because of the absence of concentrating points similar to the factory and the packing shed. It was found that those difficulties could be overcome in the wheat industry by the licensing of receivers of wheat, which very markedly reduces the number of units to be dealt with and makes possible an effective plan. In a State like New South "Wales, where the silo system is well developed, the plan will work with very little -additional machinery, and a system of licensing wheat warehouses that the plan will initiate should stimulate a long hoped for reform in other States, and prove a great advantage in safeguarding wheatgrowers. 
In general principle, the legislation proposed for wheat follows that already in existence for dairy products and dried fruits. That legislation has been in force for some time, and has operated satisfactorily. The State legislation for wheat will bring into existence wheat boards analogous to the dairy products boards. It will impose on the wheatgrower the obligation to consign his wheat to licensed receivers, and to furnish an authority which will enable the receiver to pass a duplicate copy of the receipt for the wheat to the State boards, which will issue te the farmer a homeconsumption warrant in respect to that part of the wheat delivered by him which corresponds to the quota fixed for home consumption in the State concerned. The farmer will receive an export warrant for the remainder of his wheat. The Stats wheat boards will have power to sell home-consumption warrants, at the homeconsumption price, to the millers who require wheat to grist for domestic consumption, and the State Boards will be empowered to enter into arrangements to make the necessary adjustments as between the States. 
The Commonwealth Parliament is simply required to legislate to ensure that interstate trade will be regulated in such a way as to make the State legislation effective. The bill now before the House provides for this. Farmers in one State may deliver their wheat to licensed receivers in another State under condition set out in the bill. Once the wheat has been delivered to a licensed receiver it will be dealt with in the same way as wheat delivered from farmers in that State. The federal bill provides for the issue of licences in respect of interstate trade, and processors will be required to fulfil the same conditions in respect of their interstate trade in wheat products as they are required to fulfil under the State legislation in respect of their trade within the State. 
I have already mentioned that the Australian Agricultural Council carried a resolution, approving of the Commonwealth plan. Prior to the adoption of this resolution, the council considered very carefully an alternative proposal submitted by the merchants and millers. Under this it was proposed to ensure a home-consumption price for wheat by means of a graduated excise fixed quarterly according to changes in the export price of wheat. It was claimed for this plan that it had the advantages of simplicity and inexpensiveness in administration over the plan proposed by the Commonwealth. Federal and State Ministers carefully examined it, and came to the conclusion that it did not have the advantages claimed for it over the Commonwealth plan. They examined also the criticism by the millers of the present plan and came to the conclusion that those criticisms were not well grounded. I need not go into detail as full information was given in the speech of the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  delivered in the House of Representatives on the 7th November last. The Governments of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia have already introduced legislation into their parliaments to give effect to the plan agreed upon, and the Government of Western Australia also has advised that  it proposes to introduce legislation. I understand that the bill has now been passed by the New South Wales Parliament.- This present bill merely gives efficacy to the bills which will be passed by the State parliaments. Until such bills are passed this bill can have no effect. The Commonwealth Government is proceeding with its legislation so as to enable the plan to be brought into operation when complementary State legislation is enacted. 

 Silting suspended from11.48 p.m. to 12.30 a.m. 


 Friday, 6 December 1935 

I feel very much inclined to voice my disapproval of the rush that has now commenced in the closing hours of the session. I can see no valid reason why we could not meet next week to consider this business in more comfortable circumstances, both mental and physical, instead of putting through legislation by a process of exhaustion. However, I am not complaining very much: if this procedure has been decided upon, I am prepared to accept my share of the exhaustion; but I feel that I am not so adequately equipped for it as I would prefer to be. Frankly, I do not like this bill. I am glad that something is being done for the wheat-grower; and I shall endeavour to improve this proposal as we proceed with the consideration of it. The Opposition is in agreement with the bill to the extent that it is setting out to do something for the wheat-growers, but we do not believe that it is being done in the best way; If honorable senators will examine the provisions of the bill, they will see that it contemplates an amount of documentation which the average wheat-farmer will never be able to comprehend. The returns asked for, and the forms that the farmers will be required to fill in, seem to be extravagant; and all because the Government will not follow Queensland's example and give to the growers a compulsory wheat pool, which is what they desire. 
I shall produce the evidence necessary to support my statement. 
The bill seeks to establish a home-consumption price for wheat and makes the necessary arrangement for giving effect to this proposal. 
The bill seeks to establish a homeconsumption price for wheat, quotas for export, and wheat authorities for administrative purposes. It prescribes that receivers of wheat, millers and shippers are to be licensed. It also prescribes export quotas for flour and other wheat products. Warrants are to be issued for the home consumption portion of the crop, and others for the export quota delivered. In order to carry out the scheme, there will be required a vast and complicated arrangement involving adjustments between the ruling export price and the home-consumption price. It is a bad  plan; but in my opinion the worst feature of the measure is that it will leave the industry unorganized and the problems affecting the wheatgrower entirely unsolved. The industry is still at the mercy of certain vested interests, whose influenceis not to its advantage. The honorable member for Wentworth  (Mr. E. J. Harrison)  stated that the bill, had been conceived in haste and will create further confusion; I agree with, him. In reply to the interjection of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that Queensland has passed complementary legislation, I point out that the Government of Queensland always honours: a promise which its representatives make in conference assembled. I shall explain for the information of  Senator Pearceand  other honorable senators why the- Queensland Government accepted this; proposal and agreed to pass complementary legislation. It was because, at the conference held in Canberra in October, which decided to adopt this scheme,, the Queensland Government was given, no option to do otherwise. 
I do not think I have. 
I shall prove that  Mr. Bulcock  had no option but to accept the Commonwealth's proposal. At the conference,  Mr. Simpson  moved, " that this conference agrees that legislation providing for the organized marketing of wheat and for a homeconsumption price be passed by the Commonwealth Government and by the parliaments of three or more of the States." The Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  who was  chairman  of the conference, frustrated the proposal by ruling that it was not competent for  Mr. Simpson  to move such a motion at that stage. The position, I consider, was somewhat similar to that at the conference three years ago which agreed to the reduction of the price of sugar by id. per lb. At the conclusion of the conference the statement was made that the sugar organizations had agreed to accept the reduction. Of course they had agreed, because the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  had said to them: "If you do not accept this reduction something very much worse is waiting for you. The matter will be made the sport of political parties in Parliament every year, and you will not know where you stand." In the face of that threat the sugar organizations accepted the proposal under compulsion. In similar circumstances did Queensland accept the Commonwealth proposal that is embodied in this 'bill. 
The importance lies in the sentence itself. In other words,  Dr. Page  refused to accept the proposal for the establishment of a compulsory wheat pool. 
At no other stage of the proceedings was the right honorable gentleman willing to accept it. The delegates were also confronted with another difficulty: they were informed that the constitutionality of such a measure was in serious doubt, and that if the Privy Council reversed the decision of the High Court in an impending case, the proposal could not be proceeded with. 
I desire to point out that if the Privy Council should decide against the ruling of the High Court, this bill must also be just as unconstitutional as the act which is the subject of the appeal. Those who drafted this measure must be aware of that. Further, the conference was held in public; the press was represented, and sub-committees were appointed to investigate various matters. Ministers and Under-Secretaries for Agriculture were present, but the conference had not been very long in progress before those present did not know whether they were on their heads or their heels. Because the statement has been made that the Queensland Government had passed the complementary legislation, I have related these facts to the Senate. The Labour party is prepared to accept this bill if it fails in its attempts to improve it, but I emphasize « that it will agree to it only under compulsion. The most that can be said in favour of the measure is that it is better than nothing at all. One fault that I find with the bill is that it will leave the industry unorganized and the problem of the wheatgrowers unsolved, while it will permit certain blood-sucking vested interests that have been drawing the life blood out of the wheat-growing and many other industries, to proceed merrily on their nefarious ways. 
The wheatgrowers do not approve of this bill, although I admit that this statement probably does not apply to South Australia. 
I repeat that those blood-sucking interests, which never do one action of value to the industry from the time the seed is sown until the bread is consumed by the people, are to be allowed to continue in existence. Similar harpies are to be found in every industry with the exception of those that have been protected by legislation. 
They take toll of the industry and render it no valuable service. In view of the importance of the  industry to Australia, I fail to understand the honorable senator's attempts to be humorous. I desire briefly to refer to the history of wheat pools so far as they have been accepted.  Dr. Page  objects to compulsory wheat pools, though for what reason I do not know. 
I am aware of that; but  Dr. Page  did not express that opinion at the conference held in October. When he made previous statements favorable to pools he was not a member of the Cabinet. 
What influence has been brought to bear on him to alter nis attitude, I do not know. I stand by my statement that he does not support the principle of a compulsory pool. 
Then perhaps  Senator Abbott  will carry my statement to  Dr. Page  and ask himwhether it is true that he has changed his attitude, and if not, why is it that the Cabinet,in which he is a dominating influence, has not introduced a bill to establish a compulsory pool instead of this hotchpotch we are discussing now? 
Why ? 
Not being a lawyer, I am always prepared to defer to the legal opinions given by members of the profession in this chamber knowing full well that they never seek to clarify a matter without making confusion worse confounded. I repeat that if the Privy Council reverses the judgment of the High Court, this bill also will be unconstitutional. The farmers desire a wheat pool. Every authority connected with the purchase and distribution of wheat, with the possible exception of South Australia, demands a wheat pool. 
I shall have something to say presently about the wheat-growers of that State. The Scullin Government introduced a measure to constitute a wheat pool. 
I would be in a sorry plight indeed if I needed the advice of the honorable senator who has interjected. That measure reached this chamber, where it  wa3  brutally sabotaged by honorable senators belonging to the United Australia party. On that occasion every senator belonging to the Country party voted for the pool. Queensland has had a compulsory wheat pool for thirteen years, and pools to control other products also. The Queensland  Producer  of the 14th August, 1935, which is the organ of the Queensland primary producers, and is not subsidized by a Labour government, said - 
In Queensland the wheat-growers already had a compulsory pool, and, moreover, since the pool was established have benefited by ls. a bushel more than the growers in the other States. 
The article in the  Producer  continues - 
We feel impelled to say that, without the enabling legislation passed by the Labour government of the time, there would have been no wheat pool to-day. 
The  president  of the Farmers and Settlers Association of New South Wales, speaking at the annual conference of that organization, said - 
The position of the wheat-growers has gone from bad to worse, and patience, longsuffering and self-sacrifice, which have characterized them while they watched their life-savings and assets disappearing under the present system governing production and marketing of their products in Australia, have gone for nothing. Many of those in the wheat industry of Australia are labouring under appalling financial difficulties and are in constant fear of dispossession. 
The acute position of the wheatgrowers is referred to in the report of the royal commission, which states - 
The number of wheat-farmers in Australia is about 62,000. The commission recommends that one-third of the number be allowed to go into bankruptcy, and that one-quarter of the growers bc given debt relief. Sixty per cent, cannot produce profitably at present prices. 
It made provision to save them from bankruptcy, if it could be shown that it was possible to save them. The point is that they cannot be saved, no matter what is done. 
Perhaps not, but during the last few weeks  Senator Johnston  has had to admit defeat at the hands of a member of the Country party. The report continues - 
Forty per cent, of wheat-growers, even if free of all debts and subsidized at 3d. a bushel, could not produce wheat at the commission's basic price. Less than 50 per cent, can continue without help. There is no remedy on the side of production or marketing. 
One wheat-grower referring to the above report, said - 
Thank the Lord those conditions do not prevail in Queensland. We have to thank our Wheat Board for saving us from the parlous plight of wheat-growers in the south. 
I ask honorable Senators representing other States which are vitally interested in the wheat-growing industry, not to be blinded by prejudice, but to follow the splendid example set by Queensland. 
The interjections of  Senator Hardy  descend to the ridiculous and never rise to the sublime. He has asked such a ridiculous question, that I am astounded at his unbounded ignorance. If he does not know that Queensland does not export wheat, but is an importer of wheat, I am sorry for him, and more than sorry for myself because, in replying to his interjection, I know that I am wasting my eloquence on the desert air. I shall leave the honorable senator and ask other honorable senators with, more alert minds to take notice of the following extract from page 244 of the report of theRoyal Commission on Wheat and Flour: - 
If the Court is satisfied - 
that a farmer's plant and machinery (including tractors) is seriously worn and inefficient and 
that the replacements are essential. and 
that the moneys in the account referred to in item 7 of " Working Expenses " as set out in Schedule A are deficient for the purpose of enabling such replacements to be effected, and 
that the farmer is unable to make good such deficiency either from his own funds or from moneys borrowed from his creditors or otherwise and is thereby unable to effect such replacements, the Court may recommend that a loan be granted from funds provided for that purpose pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 577 by the Commonwealth. 
I emphasize those points, because, unless we take into consideration the fact that the wheat-farmers of Australia have for a long time been carrying on with no possible chance of making replacements, and doing those things which everyone knows are essential, they will at last reach the point of utter bankruptcy. The report of the royal commission, which ' went thoroughly into the whole subject, also stated - " Working Expenses " shall be deemed to exclude interest, but to include the following items . - - 
A reasonable maintenance for the f armer and his family including clothing and other personal essentials and medical and dental expenses. 
In the year 1935, we have come to the stage where it is suggested that something should be done to give the wheat-growers of this country clothing, personal essentials and medical and dental expenses! The report then goes on to refer to the need to provide farmers with the means to pay wages for hired labour, including the adult children of the farmer. In other words, it says that means should be taken to prevent farmers from making slaves of their children. The report continued - 
Wages for hired labour, including adult children of the farther, properly employed in the production of farm income. 
Reasonable wages of other children of the farmer properly employed in the produr tion of farm income. 
Reasonable expenditure properly incurred in cleaning wheat, in cartage and in chaffcutting. 
Note. - This item should be incurred only in cases where circumstances are such that these operations cannot be performed by the farmer with the plant and labour at his disposal. 
Expenditure necessary for the purchase of all commodities required for the purpose of operating the farm. 
Note. - In this item should be included the cost of petrol, kerosene and oil for use in a tractor if it is established that the use of such tractor is justified by considerations of economy and efficiency. 
I shall not read the whole of the report, which goes on to point out that unless these things are done, the farmer cannot possibly exist, because he cannot go on for ever without replacing plant, repairing fences, and so on. The farmers of this country should not be asked to accept conditions which mean that their children are forced to perform work which they ought not to be called upon to do; such conditions are not in accord with Australian conceptions of decency. 
I missed the point I wanted to make when speaking of the constitutionality of the bill. The present AttorneyGeneral - not some dead and gone Attorney-General - who every one will admit is a man of transcendant ability, especially in his profession, when speaking at the conference recently held at Canberra, is reporfed as follows: - 

 Mr. Menzies, when asked, admitted that this scheme of the Government's would be equally unconstitutional. 
The remarks of  Mr. Menzies  referred to this scheme - not the one concerning which the Privy Council has been asked to give a decision.  Senator Hardy  is incapable of following a logical argument. I did not say that it rested on the decision of the Privy Council on the appeal to be heard soon, but I referred to what  Mr. Menzies,  the present Attorney-General, had said regarding this scheme.  Mr. Menzies  admitted that if the Privy Council decided that section 92 did bind the Commonwealth this scheme also would be unconstitutional. 
It will be found in  Mr. Stott's  report of the conference, which was published in  The Wheatgrower,  the recognized organ of the wheat-growers of Australia. 
I understand there is only one publication with that title. 
At the moment I cannot say, but as I have several other quotations to read, I have no doubt that I shall be able to satisfy the honorable senator on that point. In a recent issue of the  Producers Review,  a Queensland publication, there appeared an article under the heading - 
Queensland Compulsory Pool Saves Wheat growers from Bankruptcy. 
I shall not delay the Senate by reading the article. If I did, I could not more forcefully emphasize the value of the compulsory pooling system to the wheatgrowers of the Commonwealth. Let me now examine a few authorities who, I submit, are fully entitled to speak on behalf of wheat-growers in demanding the establishment of a compulsory wheat pool. The first is a telegram from Wagga, published in the Sydney  Telegraph  of the 23rd November, in the following terms - 
Vigorously criticizing what he declared was the inept and inefficient handling of the wheat problem by the Commonwealth Government, the  president  of the Farmers and Settlers Association,  Mr. Field,  said the situation demonstrated the incapacity of Australian politicians, except the New South Wales Government, to deal with the question. The past five years was one long record of muddling delay. The industry was once again in the melting pot, after months of political cockfighting. 
Surely  Senator Brennan  will acknowledge that  Mr. Field  has some warrant to speak on behalf of the wheat-growers. I hope that the honorable senator is listening. Continuing,  Mr. Field  said - 
The Commonwealth scheme is half baked, though we accept, in default of our full objective, a Commonwealth pool if a board can be set up to control 25 per cent, of the wheat. 
Surely the opinion of the Farmers and Settlers Association is entitled to respect. Another publication which has something interesting to say on this subject is  The Land.  I daresay that  Senator Badman  is acquainted with it. In its issue of the 4th October, an article appeared with the following captions: - 
An effective arrangement would he a Commonwealth pool supported by legislation in the different States. The bill contains no provision for a compulsory pool, and we say that the Government could have made such provision if Ministers had listened to the wheat-growers. Why does the Minister, in his sauve and gentlemanly manner, try to " put something over " me? He knows perfectly well that I know, and I know perfectly well that he knows, that because of the division amongst its supporters, the Government was at its wits' end to know what to do about this wheat problem. He knows and I know that this is such a thorny problem, that, for the last month or six weeks, Ministers have hardly known whether they were going or coming. This bill is merely an attempt to get the Government out of an awkward situation, because it did not want to do what the wheat-growers desired should be done for the benefit of the industry. The Minister must not think that, because the Opposition in this chamber consists of three trusting Queenslanders,' we are entirely unacquainted with the difficulties of the Government. We know very well that Ministers have to walk very warily lest their servile majority be torn to tatters. 
I come now to an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Star  on the 31st May last, dealing with the difference of opinion that exists in Government circles, as to what should be done to put the wheat industry on its. feet. I take the following from the report - 
Speaking for the Victorian Wheat-grower.? Corporation, the manager,  Mr. R.  Tilt, said that the plan would benefit growers and enhance the value of Australian wheat on the world markets, but compulsory wheat pools in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia would be essential. 
Am I not justified in quoting these authorities in support of my arguments and telling the Senate that, despite what may be said to the contrary, the Government is not bringing down this bill at the request of the wheat-growers, but it is deliberately refusing to formulate a scheme which the wheat-growers themselves and every other competent authority declare that the industry wants?  Mr. Tilt  went on to say - 
Although it is said that compulsory pooling is not an essential part of the plan, it is difficult to see how it could function without compulsion. If the plan be brought into operation, State compulsory pools would have to be inaugurated to enable it to work effectively. And, if State compulsory pools were brought into being, there would immediately be some uniform selling arrangements between the different State pools so as to overcome the present multiplicity of sellers of our wheat overseas. 
The Melbourne  Age,  also, I submit, a reputable and reliable authority on this subject, in an article published in its issue of the 26th November, said - 
In the absence of any further communications from the Commonwealth Government as to its intentions about operating the flour tax, cabinet yesterday decided to proceed with the second-reading stage of  the  Wheat and Wheat Products Bill in the Legislative Assembly 
This reference is to the State legislation complementary to Commonwealth proposals - 
The threat of the Commonwealth not to operate the flour tax if the States did not pass supplementary legislation to apply a homeconsumption price for next year, has forced two States to submit the legislation. These States - Victoria and New South Wales - fearful lest their wheat-growers were left without any assistance, hurriedly submitted their bills  The Commonwealth realizes that the homeconsumption prices scheme cannot be applied for the current harvest, but it has indicated that it wants the legislation on the statute-books of the States before it will operate the flour tax again. 
The States are not to be blamed for not having passed the complementary legislation because, as is evident to all who understand what has been taking place, they do not know where they stand.  The Wheatgrower,  in its issue of the 14th November, published these comments - 
On May the 9th, 1935,  The Wheatgrower  published "an article entitled "Why we won't get a Commonwealth compulsory wheat pool ".  . . The article pointed out that wheat merchants, manufacturers and distributing interests which control the United Australia party were unanimously opposed to a compulsory pool and had instructed the Ministry to resign rather than establish it. Already,  Mr. Menzies,  Federal Attorney-General and Prime Minister elect, had announced his intention to resign from the Ministry if the Government went on with the proposal. 
The report went on to state - 
It was further pointed out that wheatgrowers could expect little support from the Country party, most of the members of which were not interested in wheat-growing and all of whom regarded their jobs as their first and only consideration. . . . 
The fact is that art no time has the Federal Government had any intention of establishing a pool. But despite this obvious fact the Federal Country party has embarked upon an intensive propaganda campaign, in an endeavour to persuade growers that they did not betray the growers' interests . . . The Country party mindful of the fact that farmers will remember their treachery at the next elections are endeavouring, by wholesale misrepresentation, to justify their betrayal of the growers' interests. The facts are that a compulsory pool is not unconstitutional until it is proved" unconstitutional, and that repeated attempts to secure a High Court decision that such legislation was unconstitutional have failed; and that the Federal plan, far from giving the growers all the benefits of a compulsory pool, actually leaves them worse off than they were under the system of annual bounties. 
I shall now quote from an article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  on the 30th October, 1935. It gives an informative review of the position of the wheat industry in Argentina - 
The Argentine- Government accordingly on the 28th November, 1933, issued a decree creating a Grain Regulation Board, and another decree establishing minimum prices for wheat, maize and linseed . . . The board undertook to buy grain from producers at the above prices, re-selling to exporters on the basis of international values, subject to the condition that the grain would actually be exported. As the Government simultaneously reduced the export value of the paper peso by 20 per cent., maize rose to the minimum price and linseed above it. Thus the board was called upon to operate very little in maize and not at all in linseed. In wheat, on the other hand, the board was required to trade very actively, and until the end of May, 1934, was losing from 40 to60 centavos per 100 kilos (/23/4 to /41/3 per bushel). 
I have quoted that passage to show that even Argentina has discovered that Government control of the industry and not merely the establishment of a homeconsumption price is essential if the industry is to be saved. The article continued - 
The board did not press sales when the market was weak, but sold freely when the market improved. Farmers and merchants had a free hand to sell their remaining stocks direct to exporters at remunerative prices. 
In the opinion of the British Commercial Counsellor, the fixing of minimum prices and the operation of the Grain Board were beneficial to the country. Farmers were assured of a fair price for their wheat at a time when the market was weak and uncertain, while exporters, whether large or small, remained free to compete on equal terms. 
This, of course, is not exactly what we think should be done. I conclude my speech by moving - 
That all the words after "that" be left out with a view to insert in lien thereof the following words: - " the bill he withdrawn, and re-drafted to provide that immediate steps be taken to establish a compulsory wheat pool with power to control the marketing of the whole of Australia's wheat crop in co-operation with compulsory State wheat pools." 
I ask the Government not to regard my amendment from a party viewpoint, but to judge it entirely as a proposal to conserve the interests of the wheat-growers. If it will do that, and honorable senators will consider my amendment in the- same spirit, we shall be able to establish a compulsory wheat pool in answer to a demand which the wheat-growers are mating through every authority which can speak on their behalf. 
Second READING 193. On the order of the day being read for the second reading of a bill the question shall be proposed, " That this bill be now read a second time ". 194. Amendments may be moved to such question by leaving out " now " and adding " this day six. months ", which if carried shall finally dispose of the bill; or the previous question may be moved. 195. No other amendment may be moved to such question except in the form of a resolution strictly relevant to the bill. 
This bill relates to trade and commerce with other countries and among the States in wheat and wheat products. Surely it cannot be held that an instruction to withdraw the bill and to redraft it to provide for a compulsory wheat pool is relevant to this bill. 
The bill relates to trade and commerce with other countries and among the States in wheat and wheat products. There is no reference in it, either directly or indirectly, to a pool of any description. 
The amendment introduces an element foreign to the bill. Instea'd of dealing with the regulation of trade and commerce the amendment proposes the establishment of a compulsory wheat pool, and if it were accepted would not achieve the end which the bill is designed to achieve. Therefore, I rule that the amendment is not relevant to the bill, and is out of order. 
The Standing Orders of Parliament, like the laws of a country, allow on occasions of different interpretations. 
I am obliged to be guided solely by the Standing Orders of the Senate, and cannot pay any attention to what may have been done elsewhere. I rule the amendment out of order. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has given very doubtful support to this bill. He has declared that he will vote for the measure ; yet at the same time he proclaims that the bill has no virtue whatsoever. 
The honorable senator implied that the wheat-growers would be infinitely better off if this bill were not passed, whilst their conditions would be infinitely improved if a compulsory wheat pool were established. This measure is the outcome, not of a sudden decision on the part of the Government, but of a resolution by the whole of the representatives of thi wheat industry in Australia. Thi Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  ignores the fact that, at the conference held in Canberra some weeks ago, it was decided that constitutional legislation to assist the wheat industry could be framed, and an almost unanimous decision was reached. I admit that, since that conference, various suggestions have been made by the representatives of wheat-growers' organizations, and that there has been a general lament over the lack of a compulsory pool, but the fact remains that at that gathering representatives of every interest associated with the industry considered the constitutional aspects, discussed first the establishment of a Commonwealth compulsory pool; secondly, the principles which are embodied in the bill now before the Senate; and thirdly, the imposition of a flour tax. Although preferring a compulsory pool, the conference decided unanimously to adopt the principles embodied in this measure. That decision was based on a realization of the constitutional difficulties that surround compulsory pooling. I admit that the Premier of South Australia,  Mr. Butler,  on his- return to that State, reversed his original decision, and decided not to have, anything to do with the legislation now proposed. I am convinced that there are great difficulties associated with the formation of a compulsory pool - for some time I have been and still remain one of its strongest advocates - but what the wheat-growers really require more than anything else is a home-consumption price for their product. I admit that great advantages can be obtained by the compulsory pooling system, and I would cast my vote in favour of it to-morrow; but if wheat-growers in New South "Wales were asked individually what they require more than anything else, they would say without hesitation that they favoured a home-consumption price. 
I am pleased to have that admission from a member of the Opposition. That has been the desire of the representatives of the wheat industry for some time. They have held up organized marketing as an ideal to be achieved, but their strongest agitation has been in support of an endeavour to avoid the low prices ruling in Australia for wheat, and to reach some basis upon which they can derive the benefits associated with a homeconsumption price. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  assumed that, if the wheat-growers could only get a compulsory pool, they would be relieved of all their economic troubles almost immediately, and the industry would reach prosperity again. I fail to see how that can be the case, because I say quite definitely that the industry is in such difficulties to-day that, even if a home-consumption price be paid, it will still be far from stabilization. Merely by providing that a higher price shall bc paid on a certain percentage of the wheat produced we shall not place the industry on an economic basis. The Leader of the Opposition, who charged the Government with having refused to grant a compulsory pool, should realize the actual conditions of the industry. It is estimated that the total debt of the wheat-growers of- Australia amounts to £151,000,000. That is an enormous sum. That can be described as it would be in the balance-sheets of a company, as the liabilities of the industry. Of this sum approximately £37,000,000' is due to private mortgagees, £33,000,000 to joint stock banks, roughly £30,000,000 to governmental organizations,, other than State banks, about £20,000,000 to State banks, and £14,000,000 to trustee, assurance and other financial companies. The sum due to unsecured and secured creditors outside this classification, is, in round figures, £15,000,000. On one side of the ledger is an aggregate liability of approximately £151,000,000,. and it is only right to consider what the assets are and endeavour to determine whether a home-consumption price will have the beneficial effect of liquidating liabilities which some anticipate. According to the report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry, the assets of that industry consist of stock, machinery and land amounting to £136,000,000. If we subtract the value of the assets from the liabilities we find that there is a deficiency of £15,000,000. 
Not altogether; they have been compiled after extensive examination. If the honorable senator studied the report of the commission he would admit that it went to enormous: trouble to work out the debt structure of the industry. I submit these figures to&gt; show that even if a homeconsumption price be paid all the difficulties of the industry will not be overcome. In the immediate future, other measures will have to be taken in order to bring; the industry back to an economic basis. A great deal more will have to be done than has been achieved up to the present. It may be said that the obvious thing to do is to allow tha uneconomic wheat-grower to go out of production, but that is a suggestion with, which I do not agree. I. shall not weary the Senate by arguing whether such a. proposal is economically sound, but shalL proceed to deal more particularly with the points raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  concerning theestablishment of a compulsory pool.. During the three years I have been a member of the Senate I have always noticed that when wheat legislation has been introduced in this chamber we can always rely upon one member of the Labour party moving for the establishment of a compulsory pool. Such a proposal is trotted out, not because it is believed to be practicable, but merely to embarrass the members of the United Country party in the wheat-growing districts of New South Wales. 
That is true, and so do I. It is a plank in the platform of the United Country party of New South Wales. It is a policy in which I believe. We support the establishment of a compulsory pool for the collection, handling, storage and organized marketing of wheat under the control of the wheat-growers. Such an organization has been advocated from every platform in Australia, but the members of the Country party are sufficiently honest not to lead the wheat-growers up a blind lane. If we know that the scheme is impracticable owing to constitutional barriers, we do not hesitate to tell the growers so. I believe at the moment that constitutionally the Common-wealth compulsory wheat pool is impracticable unless we are able to secure the full cooperation of the States. The members of the Labour party assume very definitely that a Commonwealth compulsory pool could become operative without any great difficulty. They admit, however, that such a pool could not be established without the aid of the States. 
We believe that a referendum to secure an amendment of the Constitution is necessary before the Commonwealth can establish a compulsory pool without the co-operation of all the States. Under the present Constitution, such a pool can be formed only with the aid of the States. It would be very difficult to carry a referendum which would enable the Commonwealth to bring about a pool without the aid of the States, because the proposals embodied in the question submitted to the people must be carried by a majority of the electors in four of the States and a majority of the whole of the people of the Commonwealth. The Minister for Agriculture in Queensland,  Mr. Bulcock,  said - 
If a referendum should be taken with the idea of securing additional Commonwealth marketing powers, I know that in industrial centres of Australia the issue would be not the extension of the Commonwealth marketing powers but merely a fight on the price of bread. 
The Leader of the Opposition believes that it is an easy matter for the Commonwealth to establish a pool without the aid of the States. 
Then we will consider whether it is possible to establish a pool merely with the aid of the States, and this involves a general review of section 92 of the Constitution. We have to realize that the issue under this section of the Constitution was clearly defined in the case  James  v.  Commonwealth of Australia,  in which  Mr. Justice  Rich said - 
The issue of section 92 which declares that interstate trade shall be free involves whether it means free of State governmental interference or free of State and Commonwealth governmental interference. 
The Assistant Minister in charge of the bill, who is an eminent legal authority, will say unhesitatingly that that clearly defines the issue to-day. Speaking on this subject at the recent Wheat Conference, the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  said - 
For a number of years the High Court took the view that section 92, which provides for complete freedom of interstate trade, bound the Commonwealth just as much as it binds the States. Subsequently, however, in McArthur's case, the High Court reversed its opinion, and since that time the proposition which has been acted on in Australia under the sanction of High Court decisions is that the Commonwealth is not bound by section 92 at all, and, consequently, may legislate in respect of trade and commerce between the States without being in any way controlled by section 92. In other words, when the Commonwealth legislates in regard to interstate or export trade, it is not bound to respect the freedom of the trade, but can impose on it any restrictions it thinks fit. 
That is the latest interpretation of section 92 of the Constitution by the High Court. In a few months this point will be further argued before the Privy Council, and no man can foretell the result. The point that the Leader of the Opposition should realize is that a compulsory pooling system involves the compulsory acquisition of wheat by the Commonwealth and the State authorities. It necessitates cooperative action between the Commonwealth and the States, allowing for compulsory acquisition by the Commonwealth and also compulsory acquisition by the States. When the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  dealt with this particular point at the conference, he said - 
A scheme of compulsory pooling involves the exercise of powers by both the Commonwealth and the States. The Commonwealth comes into the scheme in order to deal, by compulsory acquisition or otherwise, with wheat moving from one State to the other, which is, therefore, outside the control of the State Parliament. 
That is the actual function of the Commonwealth Government. In other words, the Commonwealth has to licence any movement of wheat that may occur between the States. What is the position of the States? They, in turn, have to be prepared to follow the course of compulsory acquisition. I shall not deal with the matter of whether or not the States can acquire on a compulsory basis, because I know that it has been attacked during the last few years; but I shall point to the big difference that exists between the present measure, which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  says is unconstitutional, and a compulsory pooling scheme. Under section 92 of the Constitution the Commonwealth admittedly can, according to the High Court decision, control the movement of interstate trade, but what will the position be if some of the States are not prepared to do their part? The possibility of this was revealed by the lack of unanimity amongst the delegates at the conference. New South Wales, an exporting State, was agreeable to support the compulsory pool; Queensland, which is not an exporting State, and Victoria were also prepared to support it. But the Western Australian representative said : " We cannot pledge ourselves to a compulsory pool. All that we can do is to promise to consider it." And the Tasmanian representative said : " I am personally in favour of a compulsory pool, but if I submit it to my growers, they will want to shoot me off the planet."  Mr. Butler,  the Premier of South Australia, definitely stated his opposition to a compulsory pool. I have endeavoured to demonstrate that pooling within the original interpretation of section 92 depends on the unanimous co-operation of the States, and that it is quite evident that this co-operation cannot be expected. 
Very well ! The Leader of the Opposition is evidently of the opinion that a pool can be established, in face of opposition from some of the States. Apparently he has overlooked section 99 which states - 
The Commonwealth shall not, by any law or regulation of trade, commerce, or revenue, give preference to one State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof. 
Then the honorable senator has never until now appreciated its implications. Section 99, with its clear interpretation, prevents the Commonwealth from taking action to establish a compulsory pool in one  or  two of the States. This would be held by a  non-co-operating  State to be a preferential action. What can be done? One course is to adopt the proposal embodied in the measure now before this chamber, for that will at least give the- industry a home-consumption price. In spite of the repeated statements of the Leader of the Opposition concerning the judgment of the High Court, this legislation is not unconstitutional. When the honorable senator states that the bill before the Senate is unconstitutional, he is assuming that the Privy Council will give a ruling that section 92 binds the Commonwealth. 
I understand that application for the hearing of the case has not yet been received by that tribunal. Yet the Leader of the Opposition stated that this legislation is unconstitutional. 
If  the Leader  of  the Opposition is prepared to defer action while awaiting a decision as to whether an act is unconstitutional, he might wait a long time. If a man hesitates about getting married, because he wonders whether the marriage will be a success, he will never get married. While we are waiting the wheat-grower will not get his home-consumption price. According to the latest decision of the High Court, this legislation is within the scope of the Constitution. It gives to the wheat-grower a home-consumption price and, for that reason, should be heartily approved by every honorable senator. I know that a number of honorable senators are desirous of contributing to this debate, and I, in common with others, wish that this discussion had taken place earlier, because the subject is of tremendous importance to the wheat-growers. 
Unfortunately, we have to deal with the legislation now. The bill will undoubtedly be passed, and the wheat-growers will have the benefit of it. I feel that this measure reachesthe half-way mark to compulsory pooling. We shall not cease in our efforts to secure a compulsory pool, but we realize that until we obtain the unanimous co-operation of the States or amend the Constitution, a compulsory pool is constitutionally impossible. It is of no use putting up an Aunt Sally for the first constitutional lawyer to knock down two hours afterwards. We want to give wheat-growers something permanent; something that will stand the test of years. The wheat-growers should not be made the victims of political propaganda. The Government having brought forward legislation to give 75. per cent, of what the wheat-grower desires - the home-consumption price - it behoves honorable senators to support the bill without hesitation or criticism. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  set out at the beginning of his speech to endeavour to prove that the wheat-growers of this country were determined to have a compulsory pool. In my opinion he concluded his speech without proving that such was the case. 
Quite  a  number of ballots have been taken from time to time in the various States to ascertain whether or not the farmers desired  a  compulsory pool, and I believe that in every instance the farmers rejected the proposal. I refer specifically to Victoria and New South Wales. 
Admittedly the ballot taken by the association favoured a compulsory pool, but the vote of the entire body of wheat-growers is a very different matter. The voice of the association is not always the voice of the wheat-growers ; hundreds of them may not be members of the association. A compulsory pool can give only one thing - a home-consumption price. It cannot give any more; it cannot organize the farmers; and it cannot do anything for them except to give what they would get from the flour tax - a home-consumption price. In Western Australia a voluntary pool is operating, and there are pools in 
Victoria  and South Australia. With the establishment of a compulsory pool, the number of sellers is reduced to one. A monopoly is created which can sell the wheat at any price that may be offering, and the farmer does not know whether he is getting full value or not. At present, the merchants and the pool are competing with one another to give the farmer the highest price possible. As proof of that, I point out that the voluntary pool in Western Australia, which has an advantage of 2s. a ton in respect of freight, actually got fd. a bushel less for its wheat than did the Victorian pool, and the South Australian pool got½d. a bushel less than the Victorian pool. Had a compulsory pool been in existence in Victoria, probably the Western Australian price would have been  obtained,  and the farmers would have received fd. a bushel less for their wheat. Actually, the difference would have been as much as l½d.. if the freight advantage enjoyed by the Western Australian pool were taken into consideration. The best method is to have competition. 
I am not altogether satisfied with the bill, but it is the best that  Ave  can get at the moment; it is only a skeleton, which the States will be required to fill in. It is difficult for the Commonwealth to pass legislation without knowing the provisions of the proposed legislation of the States, or for the States to pass legislation complementary to this bill. This measure covers interstate trade, and the onus or odium of legislating to control intra-State trade in wheat devolves upon the States. Nothing can be done until the provisions of both the Commonwealth and State legislation are known. One of the difficulties I see in this bill is that it will immediately abolish the competition in Victoria alone of twenty buyers of wheat. They include all the millers. Under this scheme, a compulsory pool will be created for one-quarter of the wheat produced, being that for home-consumption, and the remaining three-quarters will be sold on the open market. That is the position as I see it. One-quarter of the wheat will be put into a compulsory pool, on which the millers will draw. Previously the millers competed with one another in certain, districts for certain wheats. In my own district, the climate is fairly moist, and the millers would not buy wheat grown there under any circumstances. All that production was exported. 
No. A miller will buy at 4s. 9d. a bushel. 
Perhaps for individual wheats. There is a difference between dry wheat and moist wheat, but both  are  distinguished from wheat with a high gluten content. Millers will seek to purchase wheat grown in the Wimmera and the Mallee, because it is very dry. I do not oppose the bill. I think that my vote on the sugar question this afternoon might have been misunderstood, because I voted for the first reading of the bill, and then for the amendment moved in committee bySenator DuncanHughes. If this bill now under discussion had fixed a home-consumption price for wheat at 9s. - the equivalent of the sugar prices under the protection granted to that industry - I would have voted against this measure, also. 
Many difficulties will arise when this legislation is put into operation. If a farmer has  2,000  bags of wheat, onequarter of it will go into local consumption. But the farmer might require  300  bags for seed, and for pig and fowl feed. He will put the whole of his wheat into the pool, and get one-quarter of his  300  bags at the home-consumption price. Then he may buy his requirements for seed from his neighbour out of the export pool. In such circumstances, the grower would certainly receive an advantage to which he is not entitled, and therefore, I consider that this measure will require a good deal of policing to stop any such leakage. As nothing will be done before the next harvest, there will be plenty of time when the Senate meets again to bring this measure into line with the acts passed by the States of Western Australia, Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia. 
I agree with  Senator Gibson  that this bill could have been left to a later date as it cannot be put into operation this season, and there will be plenty of time to discuss it before the next harvest. When this bill was introduced in the House of Representatives, I think it was said that the States had not passed the requisite legislation, and this measure was being presented to Parliament for its approval in accordance with the decision of the conference. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.The legislation of the States has advanced very little in the meantime. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Only one State has passed the requisite legislation, and therefore the measure will not come into operation before the  1936  harvest. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.But this legislation will not take effect until next harvest, and, therefore, I see no necessity for the haste to secure Parliament's approval of this measure. However, I propose to support the bill, not because I like it, but because I think it is in the best interests of the wheatgrowers and because it is the best that is offering in the circumstances. Something must be done on behalf of the wheat-grower, who has experienced several years of low prices for his produce, as well as poor yields; his plant is practically worn out, his fences are in disrepair, and his buildings require reconditioning. This bill provides for a home-consumption price for wheat, and is the outcome of the appointment of a royal commission which travelled throughout the Commonwealth and took evidence as to the best means to assist the wheat-growing industry. A few weeks ago a conference of representatives of wheat-growers from all the States was held at Canberra. The delegates spent about three days in discussion, and not until the eleventh hour was any decision arrived at. 
So far as I can see, it does not give effect to the recommendations of any commission or other representative body. Among the subjects discussed at the Canberra conference were a home-consumption price for wheat, the establishment of a compulsory pool under the control of the growers, an excise duty on flour, and the continuance of the flour tax. As all these schemes had practically the same objective, it did not matter a great deal which of them was adopted. In any case, the consumer pays, and, therefore, the Government should deal with the problem in the simplest way possible, which, in my opinion, would have been by either continuing the flour tax or imposing an excise duty on flour. I realize that difficulty would be experienced in getting a bill of that nature through Parliament, and that probably a bill with another name would have an easier passage. 
It is a pity that when this Parliament is doing something to assist the wheatgrowers, it does not give to them the full benefit of all the money that is collected under the flour tax. I am afraid that so many people will be required ro implement this measure that a great deal of the revenue derived will be absorbed in administrative expenses. For that reason, as well as because no legal diffculties would arise, the imposition &gt;f an excise duty on wheat would have been better. The Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  is doubtful as to the fate of this legislation should the Privy Council give an adverse decision in the matter which has been referred to it. The measure now before us would certainly come under section 92 of the Constitution. We should endeavour to give to the wheat-growers as much as possible of the money which will be collected under the authority of this measure. 
Unlike the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I am not in favour of a compulsory wheat pool, and I am certain that the farmers of South Australia agree with me. If a vote of the whole of the wheat-growers of Australia were taken, I am confident that they would not favour the establishment of a compulsory pool. However, the bill before us is the best that we are likely to get, and I shall support it. But, in my opinion, the Government would have acted wisely had it held back this legislation. It is now too late for this season's harvest which, in some of the States, will practically be over by the middle of this month. 
Of course, a good deal depends on weather conditions; but, provided they have been suitable, the harvest will practically end by the middle of this month. However, I am prepared to give the bill my blessing. I hope that it will be half as beneficial as the Government believes it will be. 
I rise merely to ask the Minister to reply to two questions when he is closing the debate. Tasmania exports practically all of the wheat grown in that State - a soft, moist variety, suitable for certain purposes - and imports the harder varieties which are required for manufacture into flour. I ask the Minister to say what price the farmers of Tasmania will get for the wheat that  they grow, and what price the millers of that State will have to pay for the wheat that they import from the other States for gristing into flour. 
This is an important bill, because when I attempt to look into the future I am forced to the conclusion that Australia will experience great difficulty in discontinuing the system of bounties and price-fixing in connexion with wheat.  In  the whirligig of time and the aftermath of war a revolution seems to have taken place which, although unseen, is nevertheless real, for practically every primary industry is unable to stand on its own economic feet. The only exception is the wool-growing industry, and even it is granted remarkable concessions in reduced freights. 
On another occasion I shall show that the Railways Department of New South Wales grants valuable concessions to the growers of wool. I do not say that that is unwise, but I shall not pursue the subject now. At an earlier hour the Senate discussed the sugar agreement which, according to those who ought to know, means that from £4,500,000 to £7,000,000 a year will be paid from the purse of the consuming public to assist the sugar industry. A few days ago we had a measure before us to grant . assistance to the dried fruits industry. This morning we are dealing with wheat, and T understand that before the House rises for the Christmas recess, a measure to assist the dairying industry will come before us. It would appear that when all factors are taken into account, butter is granted a measure of protection greater even than that given to sugar. Since 1931-32 the Commonwealth has paid large sums to assist the wheat-growers of this country. In that year it paid to them the sum of £3,296,464; in the following year a special grant of £2,000,000 was made; in 1933-34, as a result of the imposition of a tax on flour, assisted by amounts taken from other sources, the sum of £3,000,000 was paid, and last financial year about £4,000,000 was expended to assist the industry. This year the sum involved will probably be £3,000,000, if not more. 
Since 1931-32, therefore, no less than £15,000,000 has been spent to preserve the wheat industry of this country. I do not complain about that; we could not do otherwise; but the fact is that, to protect the wheat industry, every person in the community is called upon to contribute towards its support by paying a tax on bread, a commodity essential to the preservation of life. It cannot be denied that the primary industries could not exist without the secondary industries and that the secondary industries could not carry on without the support of the primary industries. They are complementary to each other. Therefore, although we must do everything to develop our primary industries, we must also be prepared to extend a modicum of protection to the secondary industries. Any problem confronting the primary industries dovetails into a like problem confronting the secondary industries in all their ramifications. Let us recognize that each must live, not forgetting the fact that secondary industries offer employment to the great bulk of the wage earners. Of what use would be the primary industries if there were no people engaged in secondary industries to purchase their products ? 
What is the problem confronting the wheat industry? In 1930-31, 1 think the peak production year, Australia produced 214,000,000 bushels. In the three following years, it produced 190,500,000 bushels, 214,000,000 bushels, and 375,000,000 bushels, respectively. When the Australian production of wheat exceeds 200,000,000 bushels, we must export SO per cent, of the crop and half of it must be sold to foreign countries. Great Britain's imports of wheat have not, so far, exceeded 200,000,000 bushels, and, as the exports from Australia and Canada alone amount to 400,000,000 bushels, it can readily be seen that a foreign market must be found for at least 200,000,000 bushels. The enormous problem which faces the export industry can also be readily seen. Because of the recent intense economic nationalism developed in Italy and Germany and even in the Balkan States - in fact, in all the European countries - which has led to the placing of high duties on the importation of wheat, few of those countries which formerly purchased our wheat are buying it from us to-day. At one stage, Germany's import duty on wheat was £1 ls. a bushel; Italy, likewise, imposed a prohibitive tariff on wheat. So much for the position overseas. In Australia itself, the position, as stated by  Senator Hardy,  is that, although a compulsory pool might have its virtues, the immediate and particular need of the wheat farmer is the fixing of a home-consumption price. I quite agree with the honorable senator that the only virtue in a compulsory pool is that it enables orderly marketing of the pooled product, but it is problematical if it would greatly assist in increasing our export of wheat. It has not always worked to the advantage of the growers, whereas, the virtue of a home-consumption price is that every bushel of wheat sold on the local market for home-consumption yields to the grower 4s. 9d. As world parity for wheat to-day is about 3s. 3d. a bushel, there is thus .an advantage of ls. 6d. a bushel for the Australian wheat-grower, and that amount, multiplied by the 31,500,000 bushels consumed locally, gives the total cost to the consuming public of Australia of preserving  one of the greatest primary industries in Australia as approximately £2,250,000. Which is the largest wheat-producing country in the world to-day? Not Russia, Argentina, or Canada, but, perhaps, the most unexpected, China ! China is in the position to-day of being able ro produce something  like  800,000,000 bushels of wheat a year. Not only does it threaten the rest of the wheatproducing countries in the world by the competition which it offers by its huge production, but also, we are told by experts, some of the wheat lands of China are among the best wheat lands in the world. Though they are practically undeveloped, their development is increasing to such an extent that, eventually, China will dominate the world, not only in the quantity, but also in the quality of its wheat. So far as quality is concerned, the wheat grown in China is far superior to that grown in India and similar countries, and is&gt; equal to thai grown in Argentina, Russia, Canada, and Australia. A few years ago China was unknown as a producer of wheat; to-day it threatens Russia in the markets of the world. The normal carry-over is 660,000,000 bushels; in 1933, it stood at 1,104,000,000 bushels. 
I agree in part with the honorable senator. 
I impress upon honorable senators the fact that the problems associated with wheat, flour and bread are becoming increasingly difficult. In fact, the problems facing the whole of our important primary industries, not only the wheat industry, but also the sugar, butter, fresh fruits, dried fruits, and citrus fruits, and even tropical fruits such as pineapples and bananas, are becoming more acute. Practically every primary product to-day is coming under internal protection, just the same as the secondary industries have external protection. These problems are being rendered increasingly difficult of solution because of -the increased use of machinery in production, the more extensive use of fertilizers, and improved scientific methods. More and more is produced from each acre, and the quality of thb product is being continually improved as the years go by. The whole trend of this development in the primary industries has been towards making every country able to produce the whole of its requirements. The application of scientific methods in secondary industries has increased to the same extent. A few years ago a cobbler at his bench took practically a whole 'day to turn out a pair of boots. To-day that great Czechoslovakian boot manufacturer, M.  Barta,  turns out 100,000 pairs of boots daily. Under the conditions that exist to-day the secondary industries are carrying a form of taxation, which is paid by all people, that goes in its turn to meet the cost of bounties and other payments made to the rural industries of this country. Only in this way is the outbalance between the primary and secondary industries stabilized to any degree. The sooner we acknowledge that fact the sooner will we be able to attempt to solve the difficult problems that confront us. Despite the lateness of the hour, I have felt bound to speak upon  this measure, which is of increasing importance because of the fact that the wheat industry has been stabilized and maintained in the last few years by the imposition of a flour tax which is passed on in the increased price of bread. This is one of the necessaries of life, and its price affects everybody. At some future date, I hope to be able to go more fully into the peculiar developments which are taking place in the primary industries. 
That is so. The welfare of primary industries is most vital to the welfare of nearly all countries and particularly Australia, because we are a great primary producing country. We are committed to enormous expenditure in the future in respect of primary industries. 
No, but it could be altered with advantage in some respects. 
No. I do not think that any country could exist on agriculture alone. 
We have to remember that the standard of living of the average man to-day is far superior than it has ever been in history. At the present time, the artisan lives under conditions which were not enjoyed by many princes about 500 or 600 years ago. Secondary, as well as primary, industry has been responsible for this improvement; one is complementary to the other. We have to preserve our primary industries remembering that many thousands of men, women and children are dependent for a livelihood upon them. Particularly is this so in respect of the wheat industry. We are aware also that according to the royal commission which investigated the wheat industry the debts of that industry total £138,000,000. I believe that every Australian is willing to help the man engaged in primary production ; secondary industry is willing to do so. I hope that before long the Country party will see eye to eye with the United Australia party on this matter, and realize that sectionalism in such matters is unwise from a national point of view; I hope that it will realize the fact which I have stressed - that primary and secondary industries are complementary, and that all sections of the community must co-operate in attempting to find a solution of the problem which confronts both of these main divisions of industry. 
I do not intend to deal with this measure in detail. I am surprised at the attitude adopted by various States with regard to the agreement adopted at the wheat conference held recently in Canberra. These representatives agreed to return to their respective States and to enact legislation this year to provide a homeconsumption price for wheat, but we find now that such legislation will not be passed this year and as a consequence the wheatgrowers will be deprived of something like £700,000. The revenue derived from the flour sales tax which I understand will be continued for another twelve months at the rate of £2 12s. 6d. a ton will yield about £1,S50,000. On the other hand if a home-consumption price for wheat of 4s. 9d. a bushel were given to the grower, and about 6d. a bushel were deducted from that amount for railage, nearly £2,400,000 would have been available for distribution among the growers. The Leader of the Opposition contended that the Government should have established a compulsory pool in preference to a home-consumption price as is provided for in this measure. I remind the honorable senator that the first recommendation made by the royal commission which inquired into the wheat industry was that assistance should be afforded by the Commonwealth Government to the wheat industry through the fixation of a home-consumption price for wheat by imposing an excise duty on the flour used in the Commonwealth. I would have preferred an excise duty on flour because it is a form of revenue easily collected and would not require the  setting up of a department in each State. However, because of the representations made on behalf of the growers and because the royal commission so recommended, it was thought wiser to introduce a home-consumption price. 
I am taking the first recommendation of the commission. South Australia would have preferred an excise duty on flour which would cost so little to administer and from which the farmer would derive the greatest possible benefit. However, in order to arrive at a flour sales tax capable oi providing benefits equal to those which would accrue from a home-consumption price of 4s. 9d. a bushel less expenses such as railage, the flour sales tax would need to be raised from £2 12s 6d. a ton to about £3 5s. or £3 7s. 6d. a ton. I contend, therefore, that, through the procrastination of the States in failing to pass promised legislation in time for the present harvest, the wheat growers of Australia stand to lose something like £500,000, if no further increase of the present flour tax is made. 

 Senator Arkins was hopelessly out in the figures he quoted in relation to the world's carry-over of wheat. Prior to the depression the average world carryover was from 150,000,000 to 180,000,000 bushels. On the 31st August of each year a computation is made by Broomhalls, of London, of -the annual carryover.  Senator Arkins  says that the carry-over at one time averaged 600,000,000 bushels annually and that it had gone as high as 1^100,000,000 bushels in one year. Apparently the honorable senator misquoted figures in this respect. The carry-over may have reached 600,000,000 bushels in one particular year, but to view this matter in its proper perspective, we must study conditions existing before European countries, principally France, Germany and Italy, in order to encourage the local production of wheat, imposed high duties on wheat from Australia, Argentina, Canada and the United States of America. Those countries which formally imported 200,000,000 bushels of wheat annually were by 1930 producing their own requirements. From that time the world surplus of wheat piled up rapidly, and three years later it amounted to 600,000,000 bushels. In 1934 there was a world export surplus of wheat of 1,152,000,000 bushels, of which about 600,000,000 bushels were absorbed by the importing countries, leaving 500,000,000 bushels on the market as a carry-over. This year, however, the export surplus, according to Broomhalls, has been reduced to 875,000,000 bushels of which the importing countries require 600,000,000 bushels, leaving at the present time a carry-over of approximately 300,000,000 bushels. The position is gradually righting itself, and would have been completely remedied to-day, but for the fact that the pooling system was adopted in Canada. It may be a serious statement to make, but I believe that had Canada unloaded its wheat on the world market in 1930, 1931 and 1932, the price would have dropped considerably, but then the farmers in Canada would not have been encouraged to grow wheat in the belief that the world required it. They were misled in this respect, and went on increasing their yield of wheat in the expectation of getting good prices. However, the pool authorities held over large quantities of wheat with the result that at the present time Canada is holding about 200,000,000 bushels of last year's wheat. No one knows how that wheat is going to be disposed of. If it were placed on the market, it would immediately bring down the . price. I am opposed to a policy of encouraging wheat-growing by compulsory pooling, and holding up supplies which at some time or other have to be liberated. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  commended Queensland for having adopted a compulsory pool for wheat. I hold the view that Queensland can only encourage wheat-growing by means of subsidy, because wheat can be imported at a cheaper rate from southern States than it costs to grow in that State. I recall that during the debate on the sugar agreement .to-day, it was made clear that Queensland wants southerners to buy its sugar. Yet it is prepared to keep out southern wheat by subsidizing its own growers. This to me is selfishness in the extreme, ihe people of Queensland expect the people of the south to buy from them, but they refuse to buy the produce of the southern States. They insist upon fostering in the north a wholly unnecessary wheatgrowing industry. I support the bill before the Senate. It does not give the' farmers all they are entitled to, and I hope before the 1936-37 harvest a more comprehensive measure will be introduced, unless by that time the price of wheat has risen to such an extent that an arbitrarily-fixed home-consumption price will no longer be necessary. 
On this bill I think I shall be able to make the shortest speech I have ever made on the wheat industry, because I do not propose to discuss the merits of the bill at all. The Minister who introduced, the bill into Parliament explained that this scheme could not be put into operation until complementary legislation had been passed by the State parliaments. That has not yet been done. Therefore, this appears to me to be an attempt to coerce the States, either now or later. A bill re-imposing a flour tax for an indefinite period has already been introduced into this Parliament, so that at present it is quite unnecessary for us to proceed with this measure. A little while ago I protested against the introduction of the Port Augusta to Red Hill Railway Bill on the ground that it was an attempt to force the hands of one of the States, and I protest against this bill on the same ground. There is also the constitutionality of this matter to be considered, and, from that point of view, it will be better to wait until the question of the control of interstate trade is settled by a decision of the Privy Council, as that particularly affects clauses S and 11 of this bill. For those reasons I am opposed to the bill being passed at present, apart altogether from its merits or demerits. 
I protest against the action of the Government in bringing in this legislation in the middle of the night, at the very end of the session. Similar action has been taken in regard to wheat legislation in each of the last four or five years, and the reason seems to be that successive governments have waited as long as possible in order to see whether the price of wheat would rise sufficiently to justify their refusing to take any action to assist the wheat industry. We know that the price of wheat is not usually so stable at the beginning of the season as it is later, and that is why each year the introduction of this legislation has been delayed. I was amused at the complaint of some honorable senators against the giving of Government assistance to primary industries. Such assistance is needed because, for more than twenty years, under our federal tariff policy, primary industries have, to an ever-increasing extent, been bled in the interests of the secondary industries. Therefore, it is only proper that, as long as the policy of high protection continues in force, the primary industries should receive the benefit of an Australian price for that part of their product which is consumed within Australia. The wheat industry provides more employment than does any other Australian industry, and it has a great influence on the prosperity of the secondary industries. My attitude to this bill is exactly that of the conference which sat in Canberra from the 4th October to the 7th October last; that is, I support the bill whole-heartedly, because a more liberal scheme is not available. Any one who has studied the report of that conference will understand that the producers put forward more than one alternative proposal, but they were not acceptable to the Government and, in the end, the Commonwealth Government's own scheme was adopted. At that conference there were representatives, not only of the Federal and State Governments, but also of the producers, merchants, shippers and grain distributors from, every State. It is evident that the majority of the producers' representatives at the conference agreed to accept, not what they really desired, but what the Commonwealth Government would give them. 
However, I thank the Government for introducing a scheme designed to give the industry a home-consumption price, which the wheat-growers have always desired. There have been differences of opinion as to the best way of bringing this about, but under the present scheme the consumers will have to pay a fair price for the wheat used for human consumption within Australia. I hope that this bill, as finally passed, will give the growers' representatives power to fix a more satisfactory Australian price than 4s. 9d. f.o.r., the price decided upon by the Ministers at the wheat conference. That price will not be sufficient to ensure the growers an adequate return, particularly when the export price is low. It is quite evident, from a perusal of the report of the conference, that the scheme finally adopted was not that which the growers wanted. Speaking at the conference  Mr. Simpson,  the Federal  President  of the Wheat-growers' Association, stated - 
The growers are almost unanimously in favour of compulsory pooling. Even with a home consumption price equivalent to that provided by the flour tax, the farmers would not be able to got out of their present difficulties. That much was admitted by the royal commission. However, if we could increase the price of wheat by 8d. a bushel, it would be possible to place on our far lands in Australia, another 14,000 wheat-growers and their families, and on that foundation the population of Australia might be increased by 200,000. We know that at the present time the Commonwealth Government is concerned with matters of population in relation to defence, and I am pointing out that the simplest and most effective way of providing for increased population is through primary production. 
If it is claimed that the introduction of a compulsory pool would throw a handful of people out of business, I point out that already thousands of farmers have had to walk off their farms, because of low prices. Therefore, I move - 
That this conference agree that legislation providing for the organized marketing of wheat, and for a home-consumption price, be passed by the Commonwealth Parliament and by parliaments of three or more of the States. 

 Dr. Earle Page replied 
It is not competent for us to accept such a motion at this stage. 
All the wheat-growers' representatives, on their return to their various States, reported that they were not given an opportunity at any other stage to move a similar motion. 
I admit that he has always supported it enthusiastically when he has been in opposition. 
It is clear to me that  Dr. Earle  Page would not permit the growers at the conference to express their wishes by way of a resolution. I quote the following from the remarks at the conference of  Mr. J.  S. Teasdale,  President  of the Primary Producers' Association of Western Australia : - 
The one thing that a compulsory pool can do is to provide for a home-consumption price. My association has stood solidly for a homeconsumption price for wheat, not because it believes that it is sound economic principle, but because the national policy of Australia has forced it to take that stand. The farmers have to pay a home price for the things that they buy, and they now ask to be placed on the same footing as other sections of the community. The only question which now arises is the best way to achieve our objective. Different systems have been tried. There is a good deal to be said for the payment of a cash bounty. The money can be distributed on a better basis than by having a homeconsumption price, and, moreover, the distribution can be varied to allow for necessitous cases. In this connexion I support  Mr. Troy's  appeal for assistance to those farmers in Western Australia, and probably in other States also, who will have no crop at all this year. During the last two days, I have received fifteen telegrams from the north-eastern district of Western Australia stating that the farmers there will not strip any wheat whatever this year. A home-consumption price would not help them. I hope that the Commonwealth will be able, out of funds available from the flour tax, to assist those States which have suffered from drought this season. 
I endorse that request, and trust that the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  in replying to the debate on the second reading will inform the Senate as to the policy which the Government proposes to adopt to assist the wheat-growers this season. In moving the second reading of the hill the Assistant Minister said: "I think that the bill in itself really means nothing until supplemented by the States." We know that it is not intended to cover this harvest. I should like a definite pronouncement from the Government as to the amount it proposes to appropriate to assist the wheat-growers for this harvest, and particularly the measure of assistance to be afforded to farmers in drought-stricken areas, who, owing to seasonal conditions, are in serious difficulties. It is amazing that such secrecy should be observed when the wheat industry is involved. In this instance, as in many others, when the Parliament is about to rise for an indefinite period, a bill is introduced purporting to assist the wheat-growers, but not giving any practical assistance for the current year. In this instance, the Assistant Minister says the bill does not mean anything at all until supplemented by State legislation. Are we to return to wheat-growing States, and tell the growers that the Commonwealth Government has not a wheat policy, and that no definite assistance has been voted to them? 
I shall deal with that point, and also the manner in which the Premier of Western Australia  (Mr. Collier)  was treated in connexion with this legislation. When that gentleman attended the last Loan Council, he was requested to pass legislation through the Western Australian Parliament, but on the 19th November last, the date on which he arrived in Perth and intended to consult his Cabinet,  Mr. Manning,  the AttorneyGeneral of New South Wales, speaking in the Parliament of that State, said - 
During the last few days the Premier,  Mr. Stevens,  has been in touch with the Commonwealth Government on the question of whether this legislation should apply to the present harvest. In view of the discussion this Government has decided to inform tho House that this act shall not be made applicable to this harvest, and it is thought in consequence that the. flour tax will be continued meanwhile. 
Until  Mr. Manning  made that statement 
It has everything to do with the bill, because it shows clearly, to my mind at least, that the Premier of New South Wales was asked by the Commonwealth Government not to proceed with complementary legislation for this harvest.  Mr. Manning  explained this as his reason for altering the New South Wales act so that it would not apply to wheat harvested this year. When I raised the subject in the Senate, by way of a question, the Minister said that legislation embodying the Government's wheat policy for this year had been introduced. Yet, I have been told that the House of Representatives passed a bill last night providing for renewal of the flour tax as forecast by  Mr. Manning.  To fortify my position I may state that  Mr. Manning  moved in the New South Wales Parliament that the words "nineteen hundred and thirty-five " in the State bill be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " nineteen hundred and thirty-six." He knew at the time that it was not the intention of the Commonwealth Government to operate this legislation to cover this season's harvest. The Government preferred to postpone the operation of the legislation until next year, and that postponement- 
What  Mr. Manning  said would take place has actually occurred, and after discussions with certain Commonwealth Ministers  Mr. Manning  moved to amend the State legislation so that it would apply to next year. 
I believe  Mr. Manning's  statement. Had it been incorrect, the members of the Government had an opportunity at the time to deny it publicly in the press. No such denial was then made. 
A fortnight later. A direct question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin)  in the House of Representatives was evaded. 
The DEPUTYPRESIDENT  (Senator Sampson).  - As I have heard the honorable senator make that statement on five different occasions, he is guilty of tedious repetition. 
You, sir, have not heard my statement in reply to the Minister. I accept unreservedly the statement of  Mr. Manning.  The action of the New South Wales Government, in applying its act to next year's harvest, and that of the Commonwealth Government in extending the operation of the flour tax, prove the accuracy of his statement. At the Canberra conference, Ministers sat  in camera,  and resolved to appoint a sub-committee consisting of - 
Messrs. Badcock, Kimpton, Sutherland, Fethers, Tilt, Teasdale, Simpson, Hawker, Dowell, and Field, together with representatives of the Commonwealth Department of Commerce, to consider the Commonwealth scheme and the best means of operating it, and report to the full conference to-morrow. 
This sub-committee, having met, decided to report to the full conference later. The full conference resumed on the following day, and the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  made the following statement: - 
Ihave to announce that the following plan has been devised by the sub-committee appointed for the purpose of simplifying the operation of the plan proposed by the Commonwealth Government - - 
This important sub-committee recommended - 
To provide for licences to millers and others to trade interstate in flour, subject to the trader holding a miller's or processor's licence from the State. 
That recommendation is embodied in this bill, and it is the only one that has been adopted - 
A Commonwealth authority to be established to declare weekly the price (say f.o.r. Williamstown) for stabilization purposes only. 
That recommendation is not included in the legislation - 
The Commonwealth legislation to provide for payment by millers of the difference, between the price referred to in 2, and the home-consumption price of the wheat, in respect of flour sold in Australia, the proceeds to be paid into a stabilization fund. 
Effect has not been given to that - 
The Commonwealth authority to be empowered to receive funds from the prescribed State authorities in each State and to redistribute these funds to each State authority on an equal basis per bushel throughout the Commonwealth for payment to the farmers on the above basis. 
That has been ignored, as also has the alternative recommendation - 
The Commonwealth authority to be empowered to receive funds from the prescribed authorities in each State and to redistribute these funds to each State authority on an equal basis per bushel throughout the Commonwealth for payment to thu farmers on a basis per bushel equitable in that State. 
It is extraordinary that, of the four recommendations and the alternative proposal submitted by this sub-committee only one of the recommendations has been embodied in the bill, and in the circumstances the wheat-growers will not derive any benefit for this year. The Minister for Commerce has said that these recommendations were the product, not so much of the wheat-growers, as of a sub-committee of merchants and millers.  Mr. Butler  has said that that statement is incorrect, and that the scheme was initiated by the voluntary pools of South Australia, Western Australia and Victoria, which are directed by men who have the very best practical knowledge of the growers' requirements. The Minister for Commerce has further said that the recommendations were by the sub-committee, and I say that there is no one more qualified to advise the Commonwealth Government in matters of this kind than the members of such a subcommittee.  Dr. Earle  Page informed the full conference at Canberra that he had received the following report: - 
Following the conclusion of the wheatgrowers' sub-committee conference, the wheatgrowers came to the following conclusion: - " That they adhere to the resolution they carried last night, which is as follows: - 'In order to carry out the recommendation of the royal commission, this meeting of growers adopts the principle of a compulsory pool under growers' control. But, failing to secure this principle, we favour a temporary scheme to assure to the farmers the equivalent of a home price, so long as the scheme is not incompatible w'ith the establishment of a compulsory pool in any State where the growers desire it '." 
We are now considering the legislation which the Government has introduced as the result of this very important conference in Canberra. Although the growers said they desire the Commonwealth Government to provide a grant to assist necessitous wheat-farmers, there is nothing in this legislation to benefit them this year, neither will this bill provide one penny of assistance to the wheat industry for this harvest. I take it that complementary legislation will reach this chamber to-morrow, and that the Standing Orders will be suspended to enable it to be passed without delay. We shall be fortunate if we know anything about it when it is introduced, and it will be rushed through without adequate consideration. This unsatisfactory rush-method of winding up the session always characterizes the Senate's activities after members from distant States have spent weeks and almost months of alternating periods of sittings and adjournments. Adjournments of the Senate for ten days at a time are common in the middle of sessions. It is not right in principle that such legislation as is provided for in the bill now before the Senate should be brought before Parliament in the dying hours of a session. 
This legislation does not carry out the recommendations made at the conference by the wheat-growers, including the four points which I have already mentioned in detail, and the requests for the establishment either of a voluntary pooling system or of a compulsory pool. The Commonwealth scheme is entirely different from any of the proposals submitted by the wheat-growers. For the second consecutive year since this Government, inclusive of Country party Ministers, came into office, recourse is to be made to a flour tax for the provision of financial aid to the wheat industry, but no bill has been introduced providing for the distribution of the proceeds of this tax. I admit that the treatment of the wheat-growers last year was generous, as £4,000,000 was voted to them by the Commonwealth Parliament, and I hope that a like sum will be paid to them this year. I must, however, direct attention to the fact that this Government has not yet put into operation the legislation promised at tho 1934 election for the placing of the industry on a stable basis. The industry is just as dependent this year as it was last year on a generous contribution of revenues raised by a flour tax and supplemented by a contribution from the Consolidated Revenue. The wheat-farmers do not desire to be dependent upon such yeartoyear assistance. They desire to see implemented at the earliest opportunity a plan such as is incorporated in the bill now under discussion, which will ensure a permanent home-consumption price for their product. ' The condition of the Treasury should not be allowed to remain the guiding factor in the allocation of relief for the wheat industry. 
I support the bill, but I regret the fact that the last harvest was not, and the current harvest will not be, subject to legislation promised in 1934 for the creation of a national plan for the industry. 
It is surprising that the Government of New South Wales, the State government which is in closest touch with the Commonwealth Government, is the one government which altered the original proposal to bring the home-consumption price scheme into operation this year. 
I prefer to accept the statement of the Attorney-General of New South Wales that the Government of New South Wales postponed the operation of its legislation until next year as the result of discussions with Commonwealth Ministers. The wheat-growers have to accept whatever assistance the allpowerful Commonwealth Government will give them. The following extract from the report of the proceedings in the closing stages of the recent Canberra wheat conference was significant : - 
Following the conclusion of the wheatgrowers'  sub-committee  conference, the wheatgrowers came to the following conclusion : " That they adhere to the resolution they carried last night, which is as follows: - 'In order to carry out the recommendation of the royal commission, this meeting of growers adopts the principle of a compulsory pool under growers' control. But, failing to secure this principle,  Ave  favour a temporary scheme to assure to the farmers the equivalent of a home price, so long as the scheme is not incompatible with the establishment of a compulsory pool, in any State where the growers desire it.' " 
The growers also specially desire the Commonwealth Government to provide a grant for necessitous growers suffering from seasonal difficulties, such grant to be paid on an acreage basis. 
In the final analysis, therefore, the growers approved of this bill, and asked the Commonwealth and the State governments to proceed immediately with its implementation. After having listened to the remarks made last night in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  it appears certain that the growers this harvest will have neither a compulsory pool nor a home-consumption price, despite the Government's action in asking the Parliament to pass this measure now. Therefore, I should like to be informed whether any special assistance is to be given to distressed farmers this harvest, and, if so., what will be the amount of that assistance? Will it be £4,000,000, the amount granted last harvest? Is the money to be first handed to the States and then distributed to the growers on the basis that was adopted last year, when the farmers received 3d. a bushel on production and 3s. an acre for the area under crop. This is the action which I think the Commonwealth should take at once. It is most important that, before they leave Canberra later to-day, honorable senators should be informed of what the Government proposes to do. Had the Government made an announcement on these important points yesterday it would not have been necessary for me to make this speech this morning, and a much earlier end to the sitting could have been reached. Notwithstanding the recent appreciation of the price of wheat, the growers are still suffering  Very  considerably, because most of the farmers disposed of last season's harvest wheat before the increase of price  came  about. Any farmers who have benefited from the rise have reaped only infinitesimal benefit. The industry is looking to the Commonwealth Government for a definite state ment of what amount of assistance is te be given to it. It is a matter of great regret that not even honorable senators have been taken into the confidence of the Government on this most important point. 
Nevertheless, I am doing so, and I have every right to do so. 
 It is difficult for many wheat-growers' organizations to understand why the proposal for a compulsory pool has been set on one side., especially when one recalls the speech which was delivered by the present Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  on the 22nd May, 1930, which endorses very fully the statement made by  Senator Hardy  in this debate, that many growers' organizations advocate that a compulsory pool should be established.  Dr. Earle  Page's speech was delivered in the House of Representatives when the Scullin Government introduced legislation providing for the creation of a Commonwealth compulsory wheat pool. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  The bill before the Senate has no reference to a compulsory pool, and I rule that the honorable senator would not be in order in quoting from a speech made by  Dr. Earle  Page six years ago, in favour of a compulsory pool. 
In my opinion the speech from which I desire to quote has an absolute bearing on this bill. May I refer to the Wheat Marketing Bill No. 2, which was introduced by the Scullin Government? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT.- Yes, if it is relevant to the present bill. 
That bill was introduced for the purpose of providing assistance to the wheat industry, and at the same time it provided for the creation of a compulsory pooling system for the industry. When it was introduced every Country party member in the House of Representatives supported it. Honorable members who supported it included Messrs. P. G. Stewart, Corser, R. Green, Gregory, Prowse, Thompson, and Hunter. It was defeated in this House; but, as there was seine doubt as to whether the principles of the measure were understood by some honorable senators, a motion was introduced for its restoration to the noticepaper. Reference to page 5079 of the  Hansard  issued at that time will be confirmatory of my statement. That motion was defeated by eleven votes to five. Country party senators who voted for the motion were Senators Cooper, Johnston, and Plain, and Senators Carroll, Elliott, Guthrie and Crawford paired in support of the motion, which also had the support of the Federal and Lang Labour parties. 
The attitude of the Western Australian Country party movement in regard to this legislation is worthy of notice. An important statement was published on the authority of that Country party as soon as the contents of this bill were forwarded to Western Australia. 
There is considerable difference. No members of the Western Australian Country party are pledged to any platform except that of the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia. The policy of the Country party of Western Australia differs widely from that which  Senator Hardy  has enunciated in regard to wheat and sugar. Apparently, the Federal Country party is pledged to vote for the sugar agreement, but members of the Country party of Western Australia are opposed to it, as has been demonstrated repeatedly by the votes of the honorable member for Swan  (Mr. Gregory)  and the honorable member for Forrest  (Mr. Prowse).  The policy of the Country party of Western Australia is for the taking of a ballot of wheat-growers to decide which of these forms of control designed to provide a home-consumption price of wheat they prefer. 
I propose to quote an extract setting out the attitude of the Country party of Western Australia to this bill. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  - The honorable senator has stated that the extract represents the views of the Country party of Western Australia on this bill. 1 think he inferred that he had forwarded to the branch a copy of the bill, and invited its comment and criticism. 
That is so. The statement is a published commentary on the bill - 
The only safe and democratic method of ascertaining how those engaged in an industry desire to be controlled is by taking a vote. There is not a single organization in the Commonwealth to-day which can authoritatively claim that its members stand cither for the retention of the present system oi marketing, for the federal plan based on legislation for the control of dried fruits and dairying, or for a Commonwealth-wide compulsory, pool. Co-operative pooling, of course, represents the ideal, with farmers controlling their own product through their own organization, as in this State. Compulsory pooling does not appeal to many farmers. Furthermore, they are not convinced that they will be able to get any better price for their wheat than they can get through their own organization. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has apparently been asleep. 
The extract continues - 
They fear, and not without justification in the light of experience, that they may even get less for their wheat, that administrative expenses will be greater. They are uncertain, too, how they would stand in a year such as the present, when many of them will fail to reap any wheat at all, and most of them will harvest an average much below normal. Per bushel payment under a compulsory scheme would not take any account of losses or seasonal failure. 
These are questions which wheat-growers must consider when seeking a method for a permanent price basis for their industry. It would be wrong, therefore, for any organization, or group of organizations, to speak on behalf of growers without first having obtained the opinion of growers .themselves. 
It will never be possible to obtain unanimity, of course; but in all such matters the majority must rule. The Country party believes that before Australia is committed to a compulsory pool that the wheat-growers of each of the wheat-growing States should be given opportunity to vote on such proposals as may be advanced to that end. 
Last April, I strongly objected to the adjournment of the Federal Parliament without dealing with the report of the Royal Commission on the "Wheat Industry, and without giving legislative effect  to  that commission's recommendations. Parliament should have been invited to consider a policy for the stabilization of that industry and for the granting of substantial assistance to wheat-growers at that time. Unfortunately, the Government was determined to escape into recess, and Parliament adjourned, in spite of my protests, without passing this essential legislation. I complain particularly about the failure of the Government to implement the recommendations of that royal commission. Its recommendations really covered three matters, namely, debt relief, real assistance to rehabilitate wheat-growers, and a compulsory wheat pool. 
Why does the Leader of the Senate compel us to discuss this measure at 3.40 a.m..? I moved the adjournment of the debate, but the right honorable senator would not grant it. For five consecutive years-, this Senate has been called upon to deal with a wheat bill during the night. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT.Order ! 
Before the right honorable senator interjected, I was complaining of the absence of legislation to implement the recommendations of the royal commission for the assistance of the wheat industry. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - I asked the honorable senator how he intended to connect what he proposed to read with the bill. If he proceeds, his remarks must be relevant. 
It appears to me that under your ruling, sir, many of my statements, although relevant to the assistance of wheat-farmers for which this legislation is introduced 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - I draw the right honorable senator's attention to the fact that this bill refers to trade and commerce with other countries, and, among the States, in wheat and wheat products. 
That is my complaint. After hearing the right honorable senator's statement, I think that my request for financial assistance to wheat-growers to the extent of that given last year might more appropriately be made upon another bill which, I understand, will be introduced later this day. Under those circumstances, I shall reserve my further remarks in regard to the failure of the Government to give practical assistance to wheat-farmers for this harvest until this other bill is before us. I support this measure, so far as it establishes a home-consumption price for wheat; but I regret that the Government did not grant this assistance in the form requested by the conference which met at Canberra early in October. 
Coming from a wheatgrowing State, I consider that it is obligatory for me to make a few remarks in support of this bill. I understand that  this measure is the outcome of a conference held in Canberra in October. I believe that that was the only occasion on which any degree of unanimity has been reached between the various interests associated with the wheat industry. On that account, I support the bill. At the same time, I confess I am not very enthusiastic about legislation of this kind. Many points are contained in it upon which I could speak at length, but I do not propose to inflict a long speech upon the chamber at this early hour.  Senator Arkins  mentioned a considerable number of primary products which are receiving some form of government assistance; I believe that he stated that wool was the only one not benefiting in this manner. For that reason, I doubt whether we shall be able to continue to give this kind of assistance for any length of time. However, I consider that the wheat industry should be placed on the same basis as nearly every other industry in the Commonwealth. In this connexion, I refer to honorable senators a comment by Professor Hancock, in his book  Australia - 
Clearly we might reach the stage when the Government would be promoting each industry by taxing all the others, and the end, in effect, would be a perverted, expensive, and very unstable freetrade. 
Prominent economists, including the late Professor E. O. G. Shann, held the same opinion. Some measure of support must be given to the wheat industry.  Senator James  McLachlan mentioned that the implements, fences, and buildings on many farms are in urgent need of repair. The difficulty of the farmers is to make both ends meet. They have neglected their improvements, and, in the long run, will have to receive some support. 
 in reply  - I should like to find out exactly to whom  Senator Collings  referred as "bloodsucking vested interests sucking the life blood out of industry, going on merrily in their nefarious ways and taking a toll of industry." That is a most reprehensible way for the leader of a responsible party to talk about men who are as honest as he is, and are carrying on as good work in the community. The honorable senator went on to say that the Queensland 
Government had no option but to agree to what the Commonwealth proposed. That is the sort of thing which the honorable senator frequently says merely because it happens to flit across his brain. As a matter of fact, the representative of Queensland,  Mr. Bulcock,  said at the conference : " Queensland is prepared to cooperate with the other States and with the Commonwealth to secure a satisfactory solution of marketing problems." He went on to say " It appears that one State cannot pursue an agricultural policy very much in advance of the others." He cooperated fully in everything that was done.  Dr. Earle  Page said - 
We were anxious to learn what the various State Governments were prepared to do in the way of passing legislation that would bo constitutional and practicable. If all the Governments of Australia are not willing to agree to a compulsory marketing scheme, it is futile to canvass the merits or otherwise of such a scheme. "What has now been brought forward represents the greatest common measure of agreement that could be secured among those who were present at- that conference. The reason why there is no compulsory pool is that it would be vulnerable to attack on at least three grounds - -under section 92, with which most laymen are acquainted; under section 99, dealing with preferences as between States ; and under section 51, which deals with the acquisition of property upon just terms. It is perfectly true that this measure may be attacked later - a good deal depends upon the decision of the Privy Council - but it is not so vulnerable as would be a proposal for a compulsory pool. "With regard to the point raised by  Senator Gibson,  I would point out that every miller will be a receiver under the act, and that there is provision in clause 5 relating, to the making of false statements in connexion with wheat. The Government has to be prepared for the fact that, if some persons set out deliberately to find a hole in the measure, they may be able to do so. That invariably happens in connexion with experimental legislation such as this admittedly is. Probably, it will be possible to close most of the holes by regulation. 

 Senator James McLachlan said that he did not see why the flour tax should not be continued as being the simplest measure to apply. I reply, merely, that the Government recognizes, as most Governments do, that this tax is unpopular, the contention in regard to it being that it falls with greater severity upon the poor than upon the rich - a false principle of taxation. 
In the long run. But that does not alter the unpopularity of a direct food tax. 
Two points were raised by  Senator J.  B. Hayes. My answer to his categorical questions is, that growers in Tasmania will receive the home-consumption  price for that proportion of their wheat which conforms with the homeconsumption quota, and that millers will have to purchase home-consumption warrants at the home-consumption price in respect of wheat required for use in the manufacture of flour for consumption in Tasmania. Tasmanian growers will obtain the benefit derivable under the act. Of course, the effect will not be so great upon the small wheat-producing States as upon the larger. 
I shall now refer to the speech made by  Senator Johnston.  I am sorry to say anything unpleasant; but it is hard to listen to what is unpleasant.  Senator Johnston  sits in the corner, brooding darkly over his troubles, and constituting himself some sort of an uncrowned king of the wheat-growers of Western Australia, which, apparently, in his imagination, he believes that he really is. 
The honorable senator has repeated for at least the third time in my hearing a statement, which, according to him, was made by  Mr. Manning  - I do not know whether  Mr. Manning  made it or not - that members of the Federal Government had been in consultation with him- 
Or with  Mr. Stevens,  upon this matter. That is a totally false impression. The honorable senator has been assured of its falseness. 
The majority of the members of this Senate are willing to accept the assurance of a fellow senator as to the truth or untruth of a statement that is within his knowledge. I can only attribute the fact that the honorable senator cannot be induced to accept this assurance to the fact that he himself is careless in his use of words- 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I ask the honorable senator to withdraw that remark. 
You,  Mr. President,  were not in the chair when this matter was raised. On a point of order, I then submitted to the  Deputy President  that  Senator Johnston's  statement involved a direct accusation of untruthfulness against me, and my right honorable leader. The honorable senator had endeavoured to prove that certain statements which had been made by  Senator Pearce  in this Senate were not true. 
The statement was made that there was an arrangement with the Commonwealth Government. The Leader of the Senate denied that, but the honorable senator persisted in his endeavours to prove that the denial was incorrect, or in other words, that the statement was untrue. 
-In view of  Senator E.  B. Johnston's attitude towards me, I shall not reply to his criticism of the bill. I thank honorable senators for the attention that they have given to this measure during a long sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 7 agreed to. 
I desire to move for the insertion of a new clause 7a, which has been circulated  and  is on honorable senator's files. At times wheat-farmers are pressed by their creditors for payment, and it is necessary to protect them to the amount of  at  least  £50  in each year. I, therefore, move for the insertion of the proposed new clause which has been circulated, with the addition of the words " in any year ", which I had inadvertently omitted. 
 The honorable senator is most anxious to protect the creditors. 
I submit that I am in order in moving the amendment. 
The proposed new clause which  Senator Johnston  had circulated, reads :  - " 7a. Notwithstanding any provision in any other act or State act which vests in any creditor of a wheat-grower or in any authority constituted under any such act the right to receive or require payment of any amount payable under this act to a wheat-grower, that provision shall have no effect in respect of so much of the amount so payable as does not exceed fifty pounds in any year.'" 
The amendment, to be in order, must be consistent with the context of the bill. I see in the bill no reference to any payment to a wheat-grower. In my opinion, the amendment proposed by the honorable senator is irrelevant to the bill, and I therefore rule it out of order. 
That the Chairman's ruling be dissented from. 
I do so on the ground that as the purpose of the bill is to assist wheat-growers, the best way to assist them is by protecting them against their creditors. 

 In the Senate: 

I have to report,  Mr. President,  that  Senator E.  B. Johnston has dissented from my ruling. He proposed a new clause, 7a, and I ruled his amendment out of order on the ground that it was irrelevant to the bill, that no payment was mentioned in the bill, and that an amendment must be consistent with the context of the bill. The honorable senator has dissented from my ruling on the ground that the object of the bill is to assist wheat-growers, and that they can best be assisted by protecting them against their creditors. 
Notwithstanding any provision in any other act or State act which vests in any creditor of a wheat-grower or in any authority constituted under any such act the right to receive or require payment of any amount payable under this act to a wheat-grower, that provision shall have no effect in respect of so much of the amount so payable as does not exceed fifty pounds in any year. 
I regret that the Leader of the Senate objected to my amendment and that it was ruled to be out of order before I had an opportunity to read it or move it. I submit that the Senate is dealing with a measure to assist wheatgrowers by giving them certain moneys to be derived by the payment of an increased price for wheat used for home consumption. The growers are in a distressed condition, and have a large number of creditors. I submit that the proposed new clause is entirely relevant to the bill, and I desire to ensure that the grower shall get the first £50 of the amount payable under the bill for his own use, and that no person who has a lien over his property or to whom he owes money shall have the right to take that money from him. It is clear that the bill will not help the farmers unless this most necessary provision is included. 
Notwithstanding any provision in any other act or State act 
It proposes to override even State acts - which vests in any creditor of a wheatgrower or in any authority constituted under any such act the right to receive or require payment of any amount payable under this act. 
The bill makes no reference to creditors or amounts payable under the act to creditors or debtors. The proposed new clause does not purport to amend the bill in any particular, but it purports to amend an act not specified, or a State act not specified. I submit that it is not only out of order, but also unconstitutional, because we cannot amend State acts. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. 
J. lynch). - The intention of  Senator Johnston,  apparently, is to ensure payment to a wheat-grower for his own uses of a sum of at least £50 despite any State or Federal law. The honorable senator seeks to insert a clause, 7a. The marginal note to clause 7 is " Sales by processors ", and this clause reads - 
A wheat processor shall, within ten days after the close of any month during which he has sold, in the course of interstate trade and  commerce,  any wheat products manufactured by him, furnish to the prescribed authority in the State in which the wheat products were manufactured, homeconsumption warrants, issued under a State act, representing the quantity of wheat used in the manufacture of those products. 
Penalty: Five hundred pounds. 
The clause makes no mention of payments to wheat-growers. We are dealing with a bill for an act " relating to trade and commerce with other countries, and, among the States, in wheat and wheat products ". That title makes no reference to money that the farmer shall or shall not receive. The proposed new clause, to my mind, introduces an element entirely foreign to the bill. Standing Order 201 reads - 
Any amendment may be made to any part of the bill, provided the same be relevant to the subject-matter of the bill, and be otherwise in conformity with the rules and orders of the Senate. 
As the subject-matter of the bill is trade and commerce with other countries and among the States, in wheat and wheat products, I hold that the amendment is not relevant to the bill, and I therefore uphold the Chairman's ruling. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 8 to 11 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I rise at this early hour to speak on the motion for the adjournment only because I know that very little opportunity will be afforded me to speak on a similar motion on the next day of sitting. Honorable senators on that occasion will not be in the humour to listen to anything I have to say. I consider that what has happened in this chamber to-day is an absolute disgrace to a deliberative assembly. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch)  .  - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  was certainly out of order, and undoubtedly forgot himself in making the remark to which objection has been taken. I ask him to withdraw it. 
-I certainly did not forget myself. I made the statement deliberately, and I meant it; hut I withdraw it. 
The manner  of  the honorable senator's withdrawal is, in fact, an aggravation of his offence. I ask him to withdraw the remark without qualification. 
Th is week I asked questions regarding a charge of alleged nepotism in the parks and gardens branch of the Department of the Interior in Canberra. I was told that an inquiry was proceeding. I did not believe that that inquiry was proceeding, and I asked further questions and was informed that no inquiry bad been held under the Public Service Act. My questions related in no way to an inquiry under the Public Service Act, but  were  directed to obtain information with regard to a departmental inquiry which I knew had been held. The reason why I raise this matter now is because a change has recently taken place in the office of permanent head of the Department of the Interior, and the former secretary of that department has left Canberra. The men who gave evidence at the departmental inquiry were guaranteed immunity from victimization. That evidence was of a very serious character. On a previous occasion I made the charge that if these men were not already being victimized, the road was definitely prepared for that to be done. I repeat that statement now. Honorable senators may take it that the information I have at ray disposal discloses that nepotism is being practised in that branch of the Department of the Interior. I now ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior to promise that an inquiry, under the Public Service Act, will take place in order that the charges may be investigated and the men concerned may be protected from any attempt at victimization. 
Do I understand the honorable senator to say that the inquiry is still proceeding? 
Would it not be more prudent for the honorable senator to wait until a report has been presented? 
[4.50 a.m.]. - The honorable senator asked two questions on matters which do not come under my control. Before the answers supplied by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson)  were given, I read thom through .and found that they dealt plainly and straightforwardly with the questions asked. A departmental inquiry has been held. As the honorable senator has said, there has been a change in the office of permanent head of the Department of the Interior, and the new permanent head,  Mr. Carrodus,  is considering what action he will take in regard to these charges. It is obvious  that the  honorable senator has been listening to  ex parte  .statements. 
The honorable senator could not have perused the report of the departmental inquiry because it has not yet been handed to the Minister, and, unless he has secret access to tho files of the department,  he  could not be aware of the nature of the report. The action taken by the new permanent head is strictly in accordance with the Public Service Act. The permanent head may make a recommendation as to whether an inquiry under the act or .any .other inquiry should bc made. The. honorable senator need not be alarmed; it is not the desire of the Minister to shelter anybody, and he will see that justice is done to all. I can say no more at this juncture. 
Is the mau against whom the charge has been levelled an officer subject to the provision of the Public Service Act? He may be a temporary or an exempt employee 
The honorable senator may rest assured that the Minister for the" Interior will sec that justice is done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 4.54 a.m. (Friday). 
 by leave  - In this morning's issue of the  Canberra Times  there is an article headed: "Party Scene -  Sir Frederick  Stewart's Attack ", which contains the suggestion that there was a disturbance in the party room. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  has already, I understand, intimated that any such suggestion is without foundation, and, in fact, untrue. However, in thecourse of the article the following occurs :  - 
The policy of the post office, continued  Sir Frederick,  was causing the Sydney Council of Churches to lose £300 a week on 2CH. It was obvious that the post office was out to deprive Amalgamated Wireless of its placein the radio scheme. Yet, Amalgamated Wireless was a public corporation on which the Commonwealth had  a  majority of shares. 

 Sir Frederick caused a storm of surprise when he disclosed that Station 2CH was owned by him, but that the licence was in the name of the Council, of Churches. Although it was losing heavily, Amalgamated Wireless was willing to purchase it. The Postal Departmenthad taken it upon itself to refuse to allow Amalgamated Wireless to purchase the station. 
The statement that the post office is causing any one, either the Council of Churches or  Sir Frederick  Stewart, to lose £300 a week is inaccurate. The facts are that in June, 1932, a licence . was granted to the Council of Churches in New South Wales for a broadcasting station. Some time after the service commenced, it was ascertained that the conduct of the service was being under taken 'by a company known as the Council of Churches Broadcasting Company, of which  Mr. F.  H. Stewart was a governing director. The attention of the licensee - the Council of Churches - was drawn to the irregular and unauthorized arrangement, reference being made to wireless telegraphy regulation 4 (6), which reads as follows: - 
Except with the consent in writing of the Fostmaster-Ceneral or an authorized officer a licensee shall not assign, sub-let or otherwise dispose of, or admit any other person orfirm to participation in, any of the benefits of the licence, powers or authority granted. 
This communication was not answered for some time, but subsequently an application was received for permission to transfer the ownership of the station to Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. It was pointed out to both the Council of Churches and to  Sir Frederick  Stewart that consent to the previous transaction had not up to that time been obtained. On the 11th March, 1935, the department received a communication from the Council of Churches announcing the passing of control.  Sir Frederick  Stewart also notified the department of this fact, and the matter was brought under my notice on that occasion. It was pointed out that Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited had a number of stations, and that the transfer might conflict with the new regulations which were at that time being drafted, but which had not been gazetted. Permission for the transfer was accordingly held up, and, in view of the close relations which had previously existed between -  Sir Frederick  Stewart and members of the Government, I took the precaution to bring the matter before Cabinet and obtain a Cabinet decision. It was decided to await further representations from  Sir Frederick  Stewart that it is a matter from abroad. I cannot see how this has caused a loss of £300 a week to the Council of Churches. I understand from  Sir Frederick  Stewart that it is a matter of extreme indifference to him whether the transfer is allowed to go through or not. In making my recommendation to the Cabinet, I shall bring under its notice such facts as I have concerning the control by the proposed transferee of any other broadcasting stations, and, in the light of all of the information available, a decision will be made. The way in which the matter has been presented in the newspaper article referred to is not only inaccurate, but, 1 think, designedly misleading. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce, the following questions,  upon notice - 
Is it  a  fact that repeated requests for a better deal have been received from America in regard to Australia's export trade? 
Is the Minister in a position to make a statement on the prospects of a trade treat; with America? 
Having regard to the trade figures for the year 1934-35 - imports from the United States of America, £11,041,600 sterling; exports to the United States of America, £2,757,935 Australian currency - and in view of the recent Cabinet decision to permit the direct importation of American and other foreign aircraft without certificates of airworthiness will the Government consider the desirability of giving preference to good customer countries such as Germany and Belgium over other countries that are regarded as poor and unreasonable customers? 
In view of the reports of the success of German planes in New Guinea, will the Government consider the question of making a deal with Germany to exchange planes for wool ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
No. 
No. 
Yes. 
The commercial relations of the Commonwealth with Germany are receiving the attention of the Government. 
[10.8].- -I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I appeal to honorable senators, in view of the general desire that we shall conclude our business to-day, to avoid as far as possible in their speeches going over the ground that was covered last night during the debate on the Wheat and Wheat' Products Bill. This bill deals with only another phase of the same subject. Commonwealth and State Ministers, meeting as the Australian Agricultural Council in October last, passed a resolution approving of the Commonwealth plan for securing a homeconsumption price for wheat, and urging that, if insuperable obstacles should unfortunately delay the implementing of the plan for the coming harvest, the flour tax should be temporarily re-imposed to enable a home-consumption price to be paid. The Commonwealth Government has all along desired that a homeconsumption price should be obtainable for the present harvest, and its policy has been directed to that end. In order to bring this about, however, it was necessary that complementary legislation should be passed by the State Parliaments. In fact, the State legislation is much more important to the scheme than the Commonwealth legislation. The Commonwealth gave an early earnest of its desire to put this scheme into effect when it introduced the necessary legislation into the Parliament, ' but it became . obvious that it was useless to proceed with the legislation until the necessary complementary legislation had been introduced in the State Parliaments. Up to the present, New South Wales and Queensland have passed their legislation, and the New South Wales act fixesa date next year when it shall come into force. I remind honorable senators that this date was fixed not at the request of the Commonwealth Government. The Victorian Government has introduced its bill, which has passed through the lower House, but it was not introduced in time to be passed through both Houses. In the South Australian Parliament, the bill has been read a first time. In the Western Australian Parliament, the bill has been introduced, while Tasmania has not taken any action. It has become obvious, therefore, that the scheme cannot be put into operation for the present season, but that is not the fault of the Commonwealth, nor was it the result of any delay on the part of the Commonwealth. In view of these facts, it is proposed in this bill, and in the associated taxing bills, to re-impose the flour tax temporarily. 
The bill provides for a continuance of the flour tax after the 6th January, 1936, its present date of termination until a date to be proclaimed. By this flexible provision the flour tax can be made to terminate upon the inauguration of the Commonwealth plan without special legislation being introduced for that purpose. 
Several alternatives were considered. One of these was to extend the flour tax for a fixed period, say, to the 30th June, 1936, subject to termination by proclamation at an earlier date, if desired. The weakness of that would lie in the possibility that the Commonwealth plan would not be ready for inauguration upon the expiration of the fixed period. Another alternative proposed was that the flour tax should apply to all flour produced from wheat harvested prior to the 1936-37 harvest, which harvest should mark the initial application of the Commonwealth plan. Upon examination, this proposal proved to be impracticable owing to the position which would arise through confusion of wheat and flour stocks during any concurrent marketing of 1936-37 and 1935-36 wheat. To-day products produced from the wheat of this and the previous harvest are being sold simultaneously, and as a similar position is likely to recur next year, it would be impracticable to determine in which season the flour used in any goods had been gristed. Therefore, this latter alternative would be administratively impracticable. 
There is an amendment in clause 5 of the bill for the repeal of sub-sections 7 and8 of section 24. These sub-sections authorize refunds of tax paid on flour held in stock at the close of business on the 6th January, 1936, the terminating date of the present tax. No provision is made for the authorization of refunds of tax paid on flour which will he held in stock on the date to be proclaimed for the termination of proposed tax, because the proposals in this bill are essentially associated with the Commonwealth wheat plan, and they must be regarded as the first step taken in a continuous scheme to secure a home-consumption price for wheat for an indefinite period of time. The continuity of that scheme would be broken by any provision for the refund of tax paid on closing stocks of flour. 
This bill, of course, provides the same extension of the tax on imported goods as on flour produced in Australia. Opportunity is also taken to provide for two minor matters, viz. - 
An amendment of section 14(1) (k) of the principal act to ensure the retention of the exemption from tax of flour used in the manufacture of foods for infants and invalids, this amendment being necessitated by the Sales Tax Exemptions Bill, which will shortly come before the Senate. 
An amendment of section 24(2) of the principal act to make fully effective the original intention to refund tax paid on flour used in the manufacture of goods which are subsequently exported. 
Several cases have arisen in which, owing to intermediary transactions between the manufacturer and the exporter, it has not been legally possible to make the intended refunds. Honorable senators will see that the general purport of the bill is to continue flour tax to secure revenue from which grants can be made to the States for the relief of the wheatgrowers, and to continue such grants until a more permanent relief is provided by the fixation of a home-consumption price. It is desired to avoid a hiatus between the old and the new schemes of relief. 
Legislation embodying the principle of a flour tax having already been placed on the statute-book I anticipate that there will not be a lengthy discussion on this measure, as this would involve going over ground which has already been covered ; and I assume that no party in this chamber desires to see a hiatus between the termination of the old system and the inauguration of the new system of providing relief for the wheat-growers. The new system is to be made to apply to the new harvest. 
Without attempting to discuss thi3 hill at any length, the Opposition desires to register again its disapproval of the flour tax as a method of providing relief to necessitous wheat-growers. We regard the flour tax as a bread tax which presses more heavily on the workers of Australia than upon any other section of the people, because they cannot afford to huy any of the many substitutes for bread which people in better circumstances have no difficulty in purchasing. This is all I have to say on this matter. 
has reminded honorable senators that his party opposes a flour tax because it regards it as a bread tax. I remind him that the provision of a home-consumption price of 4s. 9d. a bushel through a compulsory pool would increase the price of bread more than will a flour tax of £2 12s. 6d. a ton. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has pointed out that a home-consumption price cannot be provided for by legislation this year, because the States have procrastinated. The State governments must shoulder the blame for the fact that owing to their delay in passing legislation, the farmers of Australia will lose approximately £500,000 which they stood to gain from the fixation of a home-consumption price for their wheat. I know that the South Australian Government has been largely responsible for holding ut» this matter. I am satisfied that had the governments of the various States enacted the required legislation immediately, as their representatives who attended the conference recently held in Canberra promised would be done, a homeconsumption price for wheat could have been applied to the present harvest. Because  of their procrastination, for which in some States outside interests have been responsible, the means for fixing a homeconsumption price cannot be secured for another twelve months. Consequently, I repeat, the wheat-farmers of Australia stand to lose £500,000, unless, of course, the Commonwealth Government steps into the breach and makes good that loss. However, we cannot expect it to do so, because it is free from any blame in this connexion. Meanwhile, I remind the Leader of the Opposition that the flour tax would need to be increased from £2 12s. 6d. to £3 10s. a ton to provide the equivalent of a homesumption price of 4s. 9d. a bushel for wheat. The consumers of bread will, therefore, be less severely hit by this scheme than by a' scheme for the provision of a  home-consumption  price of 4s. 9d. through the establishment of a compulsory pool. 
When this subject was being discussed in this chamber a year ago,  Senator O'Halloran  outlined a complete scheme showing how a pool could be inaugurated and a good home-consumption price paid to the wheat-growers,  without increasing the price of bread. 
We contend that, at some stage between the producer and the consumer of bread, exploitation takes place and that this could be overcome if the industry were properly organized and the distribution of its product were controlled. 
We contend, however, that a flour tax is unjust because it presses most heavily on that section of the community which is least able to bear it. Discussing the principle of the flour tax,  Sir Henry  Gullett said - 
I object to the bread tax on the ground that it is a benighted, mean and cruel tax against the people of humble means in this country. 
The whole of  Sir Henry  Gullett's speech constituted a severe criticism of the flour tax. One would have thought that owing to the buoyancy of its revenue, the Government would have adopted some method other than a flour tax to secure the money necessary to relieve necessitous wheat-growers. We hope that it will not be long before thorough and proper means are put into operation to give full justice to the wheat-growers without, at the same time, increasing the burdens upon the poorer people of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[10.30].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure merely continues until a date to . be fixed by proclamation the existing tax of £2 12s.. 6d. a ton on flour manufactured in Australia by any person and sold by him, or used 'by him in the manufacture of goods. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without requests or debate; report adopted. 
Third Heading. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) proposed - 
That the bill be now read a third time. 
Is it proposed to administer the legislation passed in the interests of the wheat-growers on the same lines as last year ? Although the system is not perfect, I believe that it gave general satisfaction to those engaged in the industry. 
.- This bill provides merely for the collection of revenue, but I understand that an amendment of the Financial Belief Act will be introduced later to provide the means by which the money raised by the flour tax will he distributed to the wheatgrowers. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External to answer the point raised by  Senator Johnston  on this bill, because you, sir, would rule the discussion out of order. This measure does not provide for the distribution of money raised by the flour tax ; it deals merely with the collection of revenue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
[10.37].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill just passed provides for the imposition of a sales tax on flour manufactured in Australia. This measure imposes, until a date to be fixed by proclamation, a tax of  £2 12s.  6d. a ton on imported flour and on flour contained in imported goods. 
I trust that, before the Senate rises to-day for the Christmas vacation, we shall be told how the money raised under the flour tax legislation is to be distributed amongst the wheat-growers, and that the distribution will be made promptly. I hope that funds which the Commonwealth will distribute from its abundant revenue, and from the amount collected under these measures, will be an amount similar to that distributed last year, and that at least 3d. a bushel and 3s. an acre will be made available. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - This measure empowers the Government to raise money by a certain specified means, and I think that it is competent for any honorable senator to ask how the money to be raised is to be distributed. I therefore rule that  Senator Johnston  is in order. 
I trust that the money will be spent in giving  assistance equal to that granted to the industry last year, and that the wheatfarmers will receive the consideration which they deserve. The Senate is about to rise for an indefinite period, but the wheat-growers have no idea of the extent to which they are to be assisted. The Senate is being asked to approve of the raising of nearly £2,000,000. 
Not under this bill. 
The wording of this bill answers a number of  Senator Johnston's  inquiries, but I have yet to hear from my colleague from Western Australia one of the true reasons why this bill is necessary. Early this morning I interjected while  Senator Johnston  was speaking on a similar measure in an endeavour to induce the honorable senator to reveal the actual reasons which compel the re-imposition of the flour tax.  Senator Johnston  went to great pains to answer my question in his own way, but he did not answer yes or no when I asked him if a great deal of the blame for the delay in implementing the Commonwealth plan for a homeconsumption price for wheat was due to inaction by State governments. Had it not been for dilatoriness on the. part of the Governments of Western Australia and South Australia, this  bill would not  have been necessary.  Senator Johnston  is very fond of placing on the Commonwealth Government the blame for the postponement of legislation to secure to the farmers a home-consumption ' price, but for this he has no justification. No one knows better than we, who come from a State of which wheat is the lifeblood, that it may not have been necessary to re-impose the flour tax if the Western Australian Government had toed the line as it agreed to do at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. 
It is very easy for  Senator Johnston,  in apportioning the blame, to debit the Commonwealth Government with most of it, but it is, nevertheless, unjust. The Commonwealth Government sometimes should be given credit for doing rightIt cannot always be wrong or verging on dishonesty, as is sometimes insinuated. I  suggest to  Senator Johnston  that at least to his own State colleagues he should indicate whether or not he is trying to shelter the State Government of Western Australia. It would appear from the fact that he refrained from answering interjections dealing with the State Government's part, or, as is the truth, its failure to take a part, in the programme for the' assistance of the wheat industry that he holds a brief for that Government. I have no hesitation in saying that, in this instance, the Commonwealth Government has. acted to the best of its ability within the bounds imposed uon it by circumstances, but that it could have done better, not only for the States, but also for the individual fanners, had all the States carried out their part of the legislative contract. 
The rc-imposition of the flour tax must affect every wheat-grower in the Commonwealth.  Senator Badman  computed that they would lose  £500,000,  that being the difference between what they will receive from the flour tax this season and what would have been available had the plan for a-home-consumption price been adopted in sufficient time by the parties to the agreement for it . to operate this season. I should like to know from the Government what actual loss will be incurred by the wheat-growers. Will it be as great as  Senator Badman  has suggested? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs)  [10.50]. -  in reply-It  is obvious that the Government at this stage cannot indicate the basis upon which the' proceeds of the flour tax will be distributed to the wheat industry. If honorable senators will think for a moment, they will realize why this is so. First, there are no reliable estimates as to the amount of money that will be available. It is all very well for  Senator Johnston  to ask questions and offer criticism; he has no responsibility and, of course, can make it appear that he could settle this question offhand in one minute. Any honorable senator who troubles to think, however, knows that the distribution of a wheat bounty is always governed by certain factors, one of which is the quantity of the Australian crop. If the crop be heavy, and the sum available limited, the distribution must be at a rate less than if the crop be small. -Can  Senator Johnston  tell the Senate what is the acreage of the crops which have failed? I venture the opinion that neither he nor any other honorable senator can supply that information. It is easy to get up and earn a. great deal of popularity by making rash statements that the Commonwealth Government must come to the rescue of those farmers who have failed. 
I consulted the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  who said that it was totally impossible to say now on what basis the distribution of relief will be made for the current wheat harvest. It is the intention of the Government, before deciding on the distribution, to consult with the representatives of the wheatgrowers themselves as to the basis and method of distribution. I can say no more than that. I cannot say how the money is to be distributed or what amount, if any, is to be made available in respect of crops which have, failed. I repeat that this Government has shown itself not to be unfriendly towards the farmers, and, if  Senator Johnston  is not prepared to trust the Government to act in the interests of the farmers, I venture the opinion that the farmers themselves are prepared to do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
[10.57].- I move- 
That the bill be  now  read a second time. 
The purpose of the bill, whose chief benefit to the taxpayers will be that it will save them a lot of time and worry, is to provide one self-contained classified and numerically itemized schedule, covering the whole of the sales tax exemptions, in place of the many unclassified and disjointed provisions, relating to exemptions, which are contained in the various acts, regulations and proclamations of the existing law. To-day it is almost impossible to know what is exempted and what is not. When this bill is passed there will be in the one act a handy compendium of the exemptions, and the people will know where they stand. 
The enactment of the bill will effect a statutory reform of great importance and value. The existing law relating to exemptions is not classified in any ordered way, and is to be found in - 
the various exemption sections of nine sales tax assessment acts as they have been amended from time to time; 
the schedules to eight sales tax assessment acts as they have been amended from time to time by many acts (over twenty in number) including the various financial relief acts; 
the second, third and fourth schedules to the sales tax regulations as they have been amended from time to time; and 
the proclamations issued from time to time under Sales Tax Assessment Act No. 9. 
Contemplating that list, one ceases to wonder why the tax hasbeen unpopular. The real wonder is that it has not led to revolution. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The advantages accruing from the replacement of all those provisions by a single classified schedule should be selfevident. It is obvious that one consolidated and classified schedule of all exemptions, in lieu of multifarious enactments, regulations and proclamations will, in the first place, have an informative value of its own; secondly, it will save much public and departmental time and expense, and avoid inconvenience in ascertaining what goods are covered by the exemptions; and, lastly, it will greatly facilitate the issue of departmental rulings and the presentation and handling of claims for exemptions generally. 
Many other advantages could be specified, but probably the most important of all will be found in the simplification of amendments of the law relating to exemptions. With a consolidated schedule in existence it is anticipated that about 90 per cent, of the work and cost involved in preparing . legislation on exemptions will be saved, and it will then be possible to present such legislation to Parliament and to the general public in a form that will be easily understood. 
Upon the passage of this bill, it is proposed to print, for the convenience of the public, copies of the measure containing an index to the items in the schedule, and also a short table of contents setting out the divisions of the schedule. These divisions, which represent the broad groups into which the exemptions are classified, are as follows :  - 
Division I. - Agricultural machinery, implements, equipment, and materials. (Note. - This is a very broad group, which includes, various sub-groups associated with wheatfarming, sheep-farming, dairy-farming, poultry-farming, bee-keeping, fruitgrowing, dried fruit industry.  &amp;c. ) 
Division II. - Mining machinery and equipment. 
Division III. - Fishing and pearling machinery and equipment. Division IV. - Irrigation, water supply, drainage and sewerage equipment. 
Division V. - Primary products. 
Division VI. - Foodstuffs, beverages and tobacco. 
Division VII. - Drugs, medicines and surgical goods. 
Division VIII. - Fuel, power, and light. Division IX. - Books, printed matter, and paper. 
Division X. - Scientific, educational and religious goods, and works of art. 
Division XI. - Goods for use by governments, representatives of governments, and public bodies. 
Division XII. - Building materials. 
Division XIII. - Containers. 
Division XIV. - Manufactures of small businesses. 
Division XV. - Miscellaneous. 
The bill is a consolidation of the exemptions contained in the existing law, and is designed neither to extend nor to curtail those exemptions. Honorable senators are asked to recognize this fact, and not to look upon the bill as an opportunity to press for further exemptions, particularly as it is only a few weeks since substantial additions were made to the list of exemptions. The consolidation necessarily involved considerable alterations of the form and terms of many exemptions, but the definite assurance is given that all goods at present exempt from sales tax will continue to be exempt after the bill becomes law. Whilst it is not a part of the design of the bill to extend the exemptions now operating, many of the anomalous features of the existing law will be removed by the re-expression of a number of items to include parts, accessories, fittings, attachments, &amp;c, of- goods already exempt, as, for' example, item 13 (2) and (3) or to cover goods . having precisely the same uses as goods already exempt, such as item 35 (117). Apart from these cases, additions to the list of exemptions have been made only where it has been found necessary to remove doubts as to the application of some existing item, such as item 7 (10), which is added solely because of the doubt as to the application of the existing exemption of " dairy utensils " ; and item 16 (1), which re-expresses the existing exemption of boats for the fishing industry to remove doubt as to whether " oars, sails," &amp;c, are parts of boats. 
The bill will be supplemented by another measure for the purpose of repealing, with suitable saving clauses, the various exemptions which are at present in force, and which will be entirely replaced by "the provisions of this bill. 
This measure has been introduced! solely as a measure of reform. Its value for that purpose should be apparent. It is the result of months of the most careful and expert study. Hence, any hastily conceived amendments of its form or content, however well-intended, would possibly prove to be acts of disservice to the community. In the circumstances, it is confidently anticipated that the bill will be accepted and passed as it now stands. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[11.8].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is introduced for two purposes only; first, to discontinue the requirement of sales tax securities and, secondly, to make those amendments of the Sales Tax Assessment Acts which are consequential upon the provisions of the Sales Tax Exemptions Bill which have already been explained to honorable senators. The Government has given full consideration to the possibility of dispensing with securities for sales tax purposes. Having examined the position, it proposes to abolish the existing provisions of the law relating to securities, so that it will not be incumbent upon taxpayers generally to give further securities. Those securities which have already been given, and are still current, will remain in force only for the purposes of outstanding liabilities arising from transactions prior to the commencement of the proposed amendments. There will be no liability under those securities in respect of transactions effected on and after the date of commencement of the proposed amendments. 
Whilst the general requirement of securities from all taxpayers is to be discontinued, it is proposed that power shall be vested in the Commissioner to require the lodgment of securities by individual taxpayers, where, in his opinion, such action is necessary for the protection of the revenue. This power will be exercised by the Commissioner only in rare cases in which there is evidence of default on the part of the taxpayer. In the vast majority of cases, it has not been found necessary to enforce securities in the past, as the taxpayers concerned regularly and faithfully comply with their obligations under the law. Such persons will not be required to lodge further securities. The remaining clauses of the bill are designed merely to omit from the Sales Tax Assessment Acts all the provisions relating to exemptions, in view of the consolidation of all of those provisions in the Sales Tax Exemptions Bill. 
Having regard to the benefits which will accrue to taxpayers generally under these proposals, I am sure that the bill will commend itself to honorable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is one of two measures which are being introduced in relation to the imposition of levies on primary produce exported from the Commonwealth. The Primary Produce Export Charges Bill and the Primary Produce Export Organization Bill are being brought down with the object of enabling certain primary industries, which are properly organized on an Australia-wide basis,  to  obtain funds for use in connexion with overseas trade publicity, scientific research, and for any other object which the Minister is satisfied is likely to be of material benefit to the industries concerned. Prior to September, 1927, fees were imposed by regulations made under the Customs Act 1901-1930 and the Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act 1905- 1933 on meat, dairy produce, fruit - fresh, canned and dried - and other primary products, to meet the cost of the Commonwealth inspection service. The moneys so collected (approximately £36,000 per annum) were paid into revenue. In September, 1927, it was decided by the Government then in power to abolish these inspection fees, with the object of affording some measure of relief to the primary producers concerned. In 1922 an organization known as the Australian Dairy Council was established by the then Minister for Trade and Customs. This body has continued to function, but under the proposed reorganization of the Dairy Produce Control Board, it is intended to transfer the council's functions to the newlyconstituted Dairy Produce Board. In view of this fact, it will no longer be necessary to provide funds for the Australian Dairy Council, and it is not proposed, therefore, to impose under this bill the levies which were previously collected for financing that body. The levies at. present in operation amount to  id.  on each box of butter and crate of cheese exported. In 1931, an inspection fee equivalent to 2d. a case of eggs submitted for export was imposed by regulations under the customs and commerce acts, at the request of the Australian egg industry. The money so derived, which amounted to £6,035 during the year ended the 30th June, 1935, has been used by the Egg Producers Council for advertising Australian eggs in Great Britain under the. Commonwealth's trade publicity scheme, and for  administrative  -expenses and research purposes. During 1931, the Australian Apple and Pear Export Council, which is a representative Australia-wide organization of apple and pear growers and exporters, made a similar request for the imposition of a fee of gd. a case of apples and pears delivered for export. This was agreed to and operated on and from the 1st January, 1932. The funds so provided, which amounted to £7,409 for the 1935 season, are being used for overseas trade publicity, and the general administrative expenses of the council. "With the cancellation of the contributions to the Australian Dairy Council, it is proposed to repeal all the regulations under which these various charges have been made, and to reimpose the charges on eggs, apples and pears by means of the present bill. The regulations will be repealed as from the date when the act  comes into operation. Clause 3 of the  bill  provides for the imposition of a charge on eggs, apples and pears exported. The levies on  butter  and cheese are not included as, with the abolition of the Australian Dairy Council, it will not be necessary to collect funds for that body in future. The maximum rates of levy set out in clause 3 coincide with the rates at present imposed as inspection fees under the Commerce Export Regulations. The maximum rates of levy may be reduced by regulation, but cannot be increased except with the sanction of Parliament, i.e. by an amendment of the act. Power is given in clause 4 of the bill to discontinue by proclamation the collection of any levy, on  report  to the Minister by the prescribed organization concerned. This provision is necessary, or otherwise the levy would have to  be  collected until such time as the act could be amended. 
In the event of any organizations, other than those which may be prescribed in accordance with the provisions of this bill, being desirous of building up a fund for similar purposes, and producing satisfactory evidence that a substantial majority of the producers concerned is in favour of the establishment of the fund, Parliament will  be  asked to authorize the imposition of further levies ' in respect of the commodities which come within the jurisdiction of such organizations. Honorable senators will appreciate that the moneys derived by way of these levies are being expended entirely in the interests of the primary producers. Advertising in the overseas markets, particularly in the United Kingdom, is essential in order to find an outlet for the increased surplus production of many of our primary products. Scientific research has already done much to control insect pests and other diseases to which some of our products are. subject, and organizations of primary producers in Australia are generally prepared to contribute towards the cost of further research work in this direction. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[11.25]. -  by leave/  - I  desire to inform honorable senators that the Government has received from AirCommodore Sydney Smith, Air Officer Commanding Singapore, a report on the search operations carried out under his direction for  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith and  Mr. Pethybridge. 
The report shows that  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith, accompanied by  Mr. John  Thompson Pethybridge, was attempting a record flight from England to Australia in a single-engined Lockheed Altair aeroplane. Reports from the Government of India show that before leaving Allahabad at 125S hours Greenwich mean time on the 7th November, he announced his intention of flying nonstop to Singapore, but passing over Dum Dum (Calcutta) and Rangoon aerodromes.  His  aircraft was observed to pass over Dum Dum and is believed to have been sighted over Rangoon at 1900 hours Greenwich mean time.  Mr. Charles  James Melrose, who was also flying to Australia at the time, reported having been passed by an aeroplane flying in a direct line from Rangoon to Mergui when 150 miles south-east of Rangoon, at 2000 hours Greenwich mean time, on the 7th November, 1935 (2.30 a.m. local time, on the 8th November, 1935).  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith's was the only other machine in the air in this vicinity at the time, and this is the last definite information available regarding his aircraft. 
As soon as it was reported overdue at Singapore, the Commonwealth Government requested the Air Officer Commanding Singapore to institute a search for the missing airmen. He had, however, already acted on his own initiative. When the aircraft was four hours overdue he circulated information regarding it to all shipping and aircraft, port authorities, State and other civil officers, and police and railway officials throughout Malaya, Siam, and Burma. At dawn on the following morning, the 9th November, two Royal Air Force flying boats and two bomber aircraft commenced  to search, and during the following ten days between six and eleven Royal Air Force machines searched continuously over all likely courses between Rangoon and Singapore, and made a close examination of all islands off the west coast of the Malay Peninsula. A Qantas machine based at Singapore was chartered by the Government to assist in the search of jungle areas, and  Mr. G.  J. Melrose, with commendable spirit, abandoned his attempted record-breaking flight to Australia in order to take part in the search. In addition to these comprehensive air searches, ground search parties were organized to examine jungle areas, and difficult country south of a line from Tavoy  to Bangkok, which could not be covered by air observation. With the object of inducing the natives to undertake searches additional to those officially organized, the Commonwealth Government offered a reward of £500 for information that would lead to the discovery of the missing airmen, and the Australian Flying Corps Association of New South Wales later offered to supplement this reward by an amount of £100. Details of these rewards were widely promulgated throughout the Malay Peninsula, in appropriate languages, by wireless broadcasts through district officers, and by some 50,000 pamphlets dropped from the air. The Government has not considered expense in having everything humanly possible done to locate the missing airmen. None of the many suggestions made has been ignored, and each report likely to have even the remotest bearing on their whereabouts has been thoroughly investigated. 
Some 28 days have now elapsed since  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith and  Mr. Pethybridge  disappeared; and as the comprehensive air and ground searches have failed to find any trace of either them or their aircraft, the Government is regretfully forced to the conclusion that there is now very little hope of their being found alive. The Government's offer of a reward for information will, nevertheless, remain open. Ground search operations are being continued, and Air-Commodore Sydney Smith has informed me that no effort will be spared until the whole area has been covered, as far as is practicable. 
Although honorable senators are conversant with the outstanding achievements of  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith in aviation, I should like to refer briefly to some details of his wonderful flying career. Enlisting in the Australian Imperial Force in 1915, he later transferred to the Royal Flying Corps, and qualified as a pilot in May, 1917. He was wounded in aerial combat in France, and was awarded the Military Cross for gallantry then displayed. For a short time after the war he was engaged in flying in America.  His  connexion with commercial aviation in Australia commenced in 1921. For two years he was chief pilot of West Australian Airways, and in 1927 he formed his famous association with the late  Mr. Charles  T. P. Ulm. After some notable flights together in Australia, they completed in June, 1928, their world-famed trans-Pacific flight in the  Southern Cross,  from San Francisco to Brisbane, in 83£ hours' flying time. This was the first time the Pacific had been spanned by air, and the flight was justly acclaimed at the time as the most 'brilliant feat in flying and air navigation in the history of aviation. This achievement was suitably recognized by the Commonwealth Government, and gained for Kingsford Smith the Air Force Cross. 
After record-breaking, non-stop flights between Melbourne and Perth, the first Tasman Sea crossing was made by Kingsford Smith and Ulm in September, 1928. Early in 1929, they made a record flight to England of slightly under thirteen days. Together they formed Australian National Airways, and for some time operated regular air services between Sydney, Melbourne, Hobart and Brisbane. Kingsford Smith's next big achievement was a flight across the Atlantic, and on to San Francisco, thus completing his circuit of the world by air. All these big flights were carried out in the famous  Southern Cross,  which was recently acquired by the Commonwealth Government. 
In 1930, Kingsford Smith established a new record by flying solo from England to Australia in nine and a half days, and in 1931 he made some spectacular flights in the conveyance of air mails between Australia and England. He was appointed an Honorary Air-Commodore in the Royal Australian Air Force on the 1st November, 1930, and his noteworthy performances in connexion with civil flying wore recognized by His Majesty theKing, who in June, 1932, bestowed upon him the Order of Knighthood. In October, 1933, he gained the EnglandAustralia air record with a flight in seven days four hours, and held it for twelve months. In 1934, he made many record flights within Australia, and with Captain P. G. Taylor as co-pilot, again flew across the Pacific from Brisbane to San Francisco. On this occasion he used a single-engined aircraft, and this flight must be regarded as one of his most daring and striking achievements. 
Kingsford Smith was lost while attempting to break the record established during the centenary air race last year. He had flown six times between Australia and England, three of these flights being record-breaking ones, and he was the first to fly across the Tasman Sea. He holds the unique and wonderful record of being the pilot of the only aircraft to cross the Pacific Ocean between America and Australia, and he was the only airman to traverse it by air in both directions. It is difficult to assess the value of Kingsford Smith's services to the development of civil aviation, not only in Australia, but also throughout the world. Certainly his supremacy as the greatest long-distance flier has remained unchallenged for many years. Australian airmen had an enviable record during the Great "War, and in the annals of post-war aviation the names of Hawker, Ross Smith and Hinkler, to mention only a few Australians, will always figure prominently. I doubt, however, whether the name of any pilot is entitled to be held in higher esteem for his services to the cause of aviation than is that of Air-Commodore  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith. 

 Mr. J. T. Pethybridge had also been closely identified with aviation for many years. After serving with the Royal Australian Air Force for three years, he joined the Kingsford Smith organization in 1929, qualified as a pilot shortly, afterwards, and accompanied Kingsford Smith on several of his flights between Australia and New Zealand. Being a qualified aircraft engineer and flying instruc tor, as well as a highly experienced commercial pilot, he was a valued representative of the aviation industry in Australia. I move - 
That this Senate: 
Expresses its deep regret at the loss of Air-Commodore  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith, M.C., D.F.C., and  Mr. John  Thompson Pethybridge when the aircraft in which they were flying to Australia, disappeared between Rangoon and Singapore on the 8th November, 1935; 
Places on record its high appreciation of the unique and valuable services extending over many years rendered by  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith to civil aviation in Australia, not only by his many brilliant pioneer and record-breaking flights, but also by his activities in connexion with the operation of regular airtransport services and the maintenance of a flying training organization; 
Tenders to the widows and families of the missing airmen its profound sympathy in the irreparable loss they have sustained; and 
Thanks all governments, civil organizations, officials and other persons who assisted in carrying out the comprehensive air and ground searches made for the missing airmen. 
In connexion with the last portion of this motion, I should like to refer particularly to the assistance received from the following: - 
His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, which approved of Royal Air Force aircraft undertaking the search; 
The Government of India, which arranged wireless broadcasts, and collected valuable information regarding the missing airmen's movements across India ; 
The British Minister at Bangkok for his personal interest and wholehearted assistance; 
The Siamese Government, which unhesitatingly permitted Royal Air Force aircraft to operate over Siamese territory, and organized searches by ground parties ; and 
Air Commodore Sydney W. Smith, O.B.E., Air Officer Commanding, Royal Air Force, Singapore, and all officers and airmen of the Royal Air Force who took part in the searches. 
Air-Commodore Smith ordered the search to commence immediately the aircraft was reported overdue, and he accepted responsibility for the organization and direction of the extensive air  and ground searches undertaken.  His  difficulties in conducting these operations were intensified by the lack of definite information regarding the itinerary of the missing airmen. Air-Commodore Smith exhibited a keen desire to meet the Government's wishes in every way, and had a sympathetic understanding of the anxiety felt by all Australians for news of the missing airmen. As an instance of this,, he prolonged the searches by Royal Air Force aircraft for many days after he had expressed the opinion that further air searches would be of no avail. A word of commendation is also due to the crews of the Royal Air Force machines who maintained their systematic investigation of the area often under bad weather conditions, and at no little risk when flying single-engined machines over jungle areas, and difficult, mountainous country. 
The thanks of the Government are also tendered to - 

 Mr. Charles James Melrose, who abandoned an attempted recordmaking flight to Australia to take part in the search ; 
The Straits Steamship Company, which diverted one of its steamers, and landed boats' crews at Sayer Island to investigate certain reports ; 

 Mr. E. L. Miles, Manager, Satupulo Tin Mines, who displayed keen, personal interest, and was particularly helpful in organizing ground search parties; and 
Qantas Empire Airways, which readily agreed to their reserve aircraft at Singapore being placed at the disposal of the air officer commanding, and utilized as he considered desirable, particularly in the search over jungle areas. 
 I willingly second the motion, though I deeply regret theoccasion for it. No event in recent years has moved the people of Australia to more profound sorrow than has the loss of the two airmen to whom this motion refers. It is not necessary for me to express admiration of the wonderful achievements of  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith. They were admirably covered in the eulogy delivered by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce).  It seems that always the heroes of the air make just one night too many, and then we have to mourn their passing. I am sure that all honorable senators, and those whom they represent - the people of Australia - will support this motion, which records our regret at the passing of two great aviators, and our sympathy with their families who must have suffered intensely during the last four weeks. 
 On behalf of the members of the United Country party I support the motion, and I desire to express our sense of the nation's loss in the passing of such distinguished Australians as  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith, and his companion,  Mr. Pethybridge.  It can be said that in  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith Australia had the uncrowned king of the air.  His  charming personality endeared him to every one with whom he came in contact, and his courage and crusading spirit captured the imagination of the people. I am merely echoing the sentiments of the public when I say that the nation mourns the passing of these men. If one day Australia possesses a hall of fame, I am confident that, inscribed in a prominent place therein, will be the names of  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith and his comrade,  Mr. Pethybridge. 
Motion agreed to, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) agreed to - 
That the foregoing resolutions respectively be transmitted to those concerned, together with a copy of the speeches delivered in connexion with them. 
 I move - 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
The object of this bill is to enable the Government to pay, out of Consolidated Revenue, to industry organizations the moneys collected under the Primary Produce Export Charges Act. For some years, certain of our export industries have been paying a levy on goods exported, and this levy has been used by industry councils, established on a voluntary basis, for the benefit of the industries concerned. Thus the levy on eggs exported has been used by the Egg Export Council, and the levy on apples and pears by the Apple and Pear Export Council, for oversea trade publicity, research work, and such other purposes as are approved and are for the benefit of the respective industries. Provision for the continuance of the export levies on eggs, apples and pears, is made in the Primary Produce Export Charges Bill, which the Senate passed this morning. The Government desires that these levies shall still be handed over to the voluntary organizations established by those industries and be used by them for the benefit of producers. This bill provides also that separate accounts relating to these moneys shall be kept by the organizations, and that such accounts shall be subject to audit by the Commonwealth AuditorGeneral. It is considered that  thi  expenditure of any moneys collected by the Commonwealth, even when collected from and on behalf of a particular industry, should be subject to this review by the Auditor-General. There is nothing contentious in the bill. 
.- I am not quite sure that honorable senators realize the full significance of this measure. The Minister said that it was not contentious, and, in effect, that it does not mean very much at all. Actually, it rings the death knell of the Australian Dairy Council; as a matter of fact in dealing with this measure at this juncture the Minister is ordering the coffin before the body is dead. This bill is premature. The least the Government could have done was to have waited until the Dairy Produce Export Control Bill had been dealt with. This measure will deprive the Australian Dairy Council of the whole of its funds, and leave it stranded and faced with extinction. In following this course, the Government is wiping out one of 'the most useful bodies which has yet operated in .the dairying industry in Australia. It was created in 1922. 
I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later hour. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 I should like the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce to give me an assurance that, in the regulations which are to be framed, provision will be made to insert the following definition :  - 
Producers representative means any person who, during the twelve months ended the 30th day of June last preceding the election, was the owner or lessee of a dairy farm, the milk from which was utilized for the purposeof manufacturing dairy produce. 
I understand that this could be done by regulation. 
-Will the Minister give me an assurance that the proposed definition will be included in the regulation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4- 
Section 4 of the principal act is repealed and the following section inserted in  its  stead : - 
(1.) For the purposes of this act there shall be an Australian Dairy Produce Board. (2.) The board shall consist of - 
one representative of each of the States of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, elected by the producers in each of those States; and 
one representative of the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania elected by the producers of those States. " (5.) The member appointed in pursuance of paragraph (b) of sub-section (2.) of this section shall hold office for a term of three years, but may be removed from office by the Governor -General upon the recommendation of the Board. 
I move - 
That after the word "of", paragraph (f) sub-section 2, proposed new section 4, the words '' each of " be inserted. 
If this amendment be accepted, there will be one representative each of the States of South Australia. Western Aus-. tralia and Tasmania. The Australian Dairy Council recommended that each of  the States; should have one producer representative, hut instead of giving effect to that recommendation, the Government proposes the appointment of one. only representative for the three States mentioned. It has been pointed out that it would be very difficult to carry out an election for such a small position over so extensive an area, and that it would also be difficult to find candidates known to the producers in the three States or candidates acquainted with the varying conditions under which the industry is carried on at points so far apart. I know that some members of the Government, including the Assistant Minister, are sympathetic with this amendment, and I hope he will see his way clear to accept it. It would make producercontrol a real thing, and would be greatly appreciated by the producers as a whole. 
I am sorry I cannot accept the amendment. I admitted that it would be difficult to elect such representatives, but that does not mean that I am sympathetic with the amendment. This measure provides nine representatives for the larger-producing States, which export 364,000 tons of butter annually, and four representatives for the three smaller producing States which export 25,848 tons of butter annually, and this is very liberal representation. I point out that no conflict exists between the States, and that no particular local circumstances exist in one State that are peculiar to that State alone. There is no reason to expect that any conflict will arise between the representatives of the Commonwealth and the different States in this matter. The interests of each State are the interests of the Commonwealth and the other States as a whole. I hope honorable senators will reject the amendment. 
The Opposition strenuously opposes this amendment. In addition to the reasons given by the Assistant Minister for rejecting it, I point out that it would operate very unfairly in so far as Queensland is concerned. Accounting for 150,041 tons annually Queensland heads the list of butter-producing States. If this amendment be carried the three smaller States combined, which produce only 25,848 tons of butter annually, will have a greater representation than Queensland which produces six times as much of the butter, the export of which will be controlled by this board. The injustice to Queensland arising out of this amendment if it were carried will be obvious when it is remembered that the levy which will be required to finance this board will be made on a poundage basis. We object to Queensland being placed in such an unfair position. I hope honorable senators will reject the amendment because of the obvious anomalies it will create and the obvious injustice it will do to Queensland. I point out that the Queensland Council of Agriculture which will be abolished and absorbed in the new organization to be established under this measure is entirely sympathetic towards this bill. Its members believe in the amalgamation of the forces of the industry; they are opposed to dissipation of energy and duplication of effort. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move - 
That at the end of paragraph (f), section 2, proposed new section 4, the following words he added: - "representative" in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this sub-clause means any person who, during the twelve months ended the 30th day of June last preceding the election, was an owner or lessee of a dairy farm and possessed a minimum number of twenty cows, the milk from which was utilized for the purpose of manufacturing dairy produce. 
The amendment is self-explanatory. 
This amendment is identical with a proposal about which SenatorBadman inquired. I point out that its object can be achieved by regulation, and I suggest that it be not pressed. It gives a definition of a definition which is not done in any other paragraph. If it is shown to be necessary that only genuine dairymen shall be appointed, this can be achieved by regulation. 
The amendment appears to me to be grossly unfair, and I oppose it. A group of people seeking a common representative sometimes find it expedient to select, as an advocate, one who is at the time not connected with the industry. If this amendment be carried, that right will be denied to groups of primary producers. It is suggested that this amendment may be aimed at certain people who now represent the growers, and who, perhaps, would be disqualified under this particular definition. To show the unfairness of this proposal, I shall mention how it would apply to a carpenters' union. Do the members of such a union insist that their secretary shall be a carpenter ? 
Not necessarily. As secretary of the union he will be concerned directly only with union affairs. The same argument applies to the selection of advocates in courts of law. However, even admitting that the secretary of a carpenters' union should be a carpenter, the amendment would obviously rule out a man who at one stage of his career had been a carpenter, but for the time being was not engaged in that trade. Applied to the dairying industry, it would absolutely rule out as a representative of primary producers a man who, although not connected with the industry at the time of election, was at one time a dairyman, and thus qualified to represent dairymen. The effect of the amendment is that dairymen's representatives will have to proceed direct from the milking yard to undertake their duties as representatives on the board. Such a provision is ridiculous and unfair. 
When I sought the assurance of the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  that provision along the lines of the amendment would be included in the regulations, the Assistant Minister did not give me a definite reply. He merely said that such a provision could be covered by regulation. I contend that we must provide a clear definition of a producers' representative, and I suggest that such a representative must be a producer of the products which are being controlled by the board. 
I do not think they should be. About two years ago, when the Wheat Bill and the Financial Relief Bill were being administered in South Australia, the controlling body, the Farmers Assistance Board, of which  Mr. Justice  Payne was  chairman,  refused grants under that legislation to a wheat-grower, who was a share-farmer, and a landholder, until the Government provided a definition as to what constituted a wheat-grower. Between 600 and 700 applications of this nature were made before the need for such a definition was discovered, and following requests which I made on behalf of these farmers to the then Minister for Commerce  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  a special regulation was framed to define a wheat-grower. If a definition is not provided in this instance, as suggested in the amendment, an anomaly similar to that which I have just indicated in respect of the wheat industry will very likely arise. T support the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Amendment (by  Senator Brennan)  agreed to - 
That sub-section 5, proposed new section 4 bo left out. 
Clause also consequentially amended, and. as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 11 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I desire to illustrate to honorable senators, by means of a few figures, the importance of dairying, which is one of the most extensive and widespread of Australia's primary industries. It is conducted in every State, and in most of them is one of the principal industries. Only in South Australia and Western Australia is it confined within comparatively narrow limits. Throughout Australia, dairying occupies the attention of 150,000 farmers. At the commencement of the present century, Australia possessed about 1,000,000 dairy cows, and produced approximately 47,000 tons of butter and 5,000 tons of cheese, whilst the butter exported totalled 17,000 tons annually. To-day there are about 3,500,000 dairy cows in Australia, butter production has reached 200,000 tons, and cheese production 17,000 tons, whilst the export of butter now exceeds 100,000 tons annually. Much of this progress has been made during very recent years. Five years ago butter production totalled 130,000 tons, and exports 48,000 tons annually. Thus in five years the export of butter has more than doubled. 
The encouragement of dairying has been an active part of the policy of Australian governments for many years, and the expansion of the industry during the present century has involved a large expenditure of loan money. Well over £200,000,000 is invested in the industry, and the welfare of dairying is therefore important, not only to the dairy farmers themselves, but also to Australia, which depends upon the industry for the production of a considerable percentage of its wealth. The industry has experienced extremes of prices since the war. In 1920, for example, the price of butter was  at times as high as 2s. 6d. per lb., but in the next year it had dropped- to ls. 6d. per lb., and it remained at about that level for seven or eight years. The effect of the high prices had been to stimulate land values, and the fall in prices brought embarrassment to very many dairyfarmers throughout Australia. The position then was such as to impress upon the industry the necessity for organization of marketing. The objectives aimed at were the improvement of quality, the assurance of continuity of supply, and the reduction of Costs of marketing. With these objects in view, the BrucePage Government brought into being the Dairy Produce Export Control Act in 1924. Under that act, the present Dairy Produce Control Board was established, and it has functioned continuously since that time. The board has done much to advance the interests of the dairying industry, and has effected substantial economies in marketing costs. It has given continuous attention to the improvement of marketing technique, both in Australia and in the United Kingdom, which has always been the principal market for Australian dairy products. 
Prior to the establishment of the Control Board, the Australian Dairy Council was established, and associated with it were State Advisory Dairy Boards. Unlike the Control Board, the Australian Dairy Council has no statutory authority, but advises the Commonwealth and State governments on problems connected with the production and manufacture of butter and cheese, and, in addition,  encourges  production, through its State boards, by giving attention to such matters as pasture improvement, and investigation, of disease. The funds of both the Control Board and the Australian Dairy Council are derived from export levies on butter and cheese imposed by the Commonwealth as an inspection fee. Since the Dairy Produce Export Control Act has been in operation, representations have been made to the Government from time to time by the producing interests that the board should include direct representatives of the producers. At the same time  privately-owned  butter and cheese factories pointed out that, as their factories were not controlled by boards of directors, they were excluded from the right of exercising a vote ii» connexion with the election of any members to the board. Furthermore* during the past year or two there has been a widespread feeling amongst dairyfarmers that the industry is overorganized. In addition to the organizations to which I have- already referred, there is at present in each State a Dairy Products Board established under State legislation; a Dairy Produce Advisory Committee specially set up to advise the Government on export problems; a. private company known as the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalization Committee Limited; and various State and local producers' organizations. 
It appears that, amongst the activities of all these bodies, there is no specific concentration on the improvement of the quality of our dairy produce; yet this is of paramount importance. The fixation of a high internal price, the narrowmargins between choicest and lower grades, and the equalization of returns, may result in a decline of quality unless: positive steps are taken to prevent it by effecting an improvement. This. Government has for some time believed, that the ability which is availablein the industry could be concentrated, on current problems in a more efficient and economical manner. The State Dairy Products Boards function under Statelegislation, whilst the Equalization Committee is a special body formed for a. specific purpose, which is not a direct concern of the Government. It was considered by the Government, however, that it might be possible to combine the otherorganizations into a national body, whose functions would relate to production and marketing. Such a body, it was thought, could act as the one authority to which, all matters affecting the industry could: be referred by the Government, and be in a position to keep under constantexamination the domestic marketing: system, as well as to determine contentious issues in relation to marketing; and distribution in the United KingdomWith these objects in view, a conference of representatives of various sections of the industry, including producers' organizations, was convened, and it was held, in Sydney on the 13th April last. That, conference recommended that the Control 
Board should be reconstitutedby placing three producers' representatives on the board, and eliminating the representative of f.o.b. sellers. The board's recommendations were referred to the Australian Agricultural Council for consideration at its meeting held at the end of May. The Agricultural Council recommended that the Control Board should be re-constituted by a reduction of the number of factory representatives, the elimination of the representative of the f.o.b. sellers, and the addition of six producers' representatives. The Agricultural Council also expressed the view that, with the inclusion of producers' representatives on the Control Board, the need for the Australian Dairy Council no longer existed, and it recommended that that body should be disbanded, and that the export levies be consolidated into one. The Agricultural Council also recommended that, out of the funds derived by the export levies, an annual sum should be allocated for research and investigation into pastures, diseases of dairy cattle, and the quality of butter. The funds thus set aside would be expended in the directions recommended by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the State departments of agriculture. 
The Control Board, as constituted by the original Dairy Produce Export Control Act, consisted of thirteen members, as follows: - 
One representative of the Commonwealth Government appointed by the Governor-General. 
One representative of f.o.b. sellers appointed by the GovernorGeneral. 
Nine representatives elected by the boards of directors of cooperative butter and cheese factories, - two each for the States of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, and one each for the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. 
Two representatives elected by the boards of directors of proprietary butter and cheese factories throughout the Commonwealth. 
The proposed alteration of the constitution of the board has been the subject of considerable discussion since the Agricultural Council meeting was held. As a result of further consultation between the members of the Agricultural Council, it has been decided that the wishes of the industry may  be  met  by  adding four producers' representatives to the existing board, such representatives to  be  elected by the producers themselves. This decision is due to the desire of the Commonwealth Government, acting with the approval of the State governments, to reconcile the divergent views expressed  by  different sections of the industry. The  Government  is convinced of the wisdom of producer representation and a considerable measure of producer control. It also recognizes the difficulties of ensuring equitable representation amongst the States because of the different stages of development of the industry in the various States, and the preponderance of production in the eastern States. New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland are responsible for 90 per cent, of Australia's total production. If representation  were  determined on a production basis, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania would have very meagre representation. The representatives will  be  as follows :  - Commonwealth, 1 ; New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, 12 (70 per cent.); South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania, 4 (23 per cent.). 
It is proposed to afford an additional assurance of reasonable producer control by providing in the regulations that,  in  the election of representatives of cooperative factories, the factory directorates shall nominate the candidates, and the suppliers of milk and cream to the co-operative factories in the States concerned shall exercise the franchise. Thus, thirteen of the seventeen members of the board will  be  elected  by  the producers. It is felt that this procedure will have the general support of this Parliament. 
With regard to the proposal to consolidate the various export levies, action will  be  taken to repeal the regulation under which export levies are now being collected  by  the Government for use by the Australian Dairy Council. That body will thus no longer function as it has done in the past. The Australian Dairy Produce Board will carry out the advisory functions formerly performed by the 
Australian Dairy Council. The State governments may, of course, if they so desire, retain the State advisory dairy boards which have, in the past, operated in association with the Dairy Council. 
In commending the bill to the Senate, I may point out that the Australian dairying industry is, at present, faced with real and serious problems, and the responsibility rests upon the Commonwealth Government, and the new Australian Dairy Produce Board, to work strenuously for the improvement of external marketing conditions and the establishment of a reputation for high quality dairy produce. The bill represents a very definite step towards ensuring the continued improvement of the quality of dairy products. Much of the butter exported from Australia is of the highest quality. Admittedly there is still room for improvement. The reconstituted board may confidently be expected to concentrate its attention on this important problem. It is believed that the re-organization of the industry on the lines proposed in the bill will be of material benefit, not only to the dairy-farmer but also to Australia as a whole. 
I have detailed information explaining the various clauses which, if required, I shall supply in committee. 
I am glad that this important industry which means so much to Australia is, with the assistance of the. Government, being brought more and more under the control of producers and that every effort is being made to improve the conditions under which it operates. I understand that valuable research work, particularly in respect of pasture improvement and in other directions, is undertaken with funds raised by levies. I support the bill, but I may ask for further information in committee. 
.- I do not welcome this measure with any particular enthusiasm. I intended, at first, to oppose it because I could not see that it would improve the existing marketing system under the control of the Control Board, which, in the past, has done remarkably good work. I do not think that dairymen anywhere in Australia have objected to its personnel or to the manner in which it has carried out its work. I understand that objection has been raised only in New South Wales, and the reason is obvious.   Mr. McPherson,  of Victoria, who is the Government nominee, is an excellent man. The two representatives of the proprietary interests are  Mr. Handbury  and  Mr. Holdenson  - two of the best-known business men in Melbourne - and I venture to suggest that if a vote of the dairymen were taken to select a producers' representative on the board, one of the men at present representing proprietary interests would be selected. One of the representatives of proprietary interests is the treasurer of the Dairymen's Association of Victoria, which has a membership of 10,000, and as he has been re-elected to that position from time to time, it shows that the dairymen have confidence in him. These three representatives from Victoria, together with two others, give Victoria five members on the board. I can understand New South Wales, and probably Queensland, objecting to such strong representation of one State; but the industry should obtain the best possible representation, which, I believe, it has at present. This is a big business organization; it has to carry on important commercial transactions at short notice, and at times it may be impossible to arrange for the attendance of seventeen men from all parts of Australia. 
I understand that a few of the leading representatives get together when important business is to be transacted and that they get in touch with the representatives in the other States. In that way they are able to reach decisions without incurring heavy expenditure. 
At times it may be necessary. 
There must be a majority of the board in favour of a proposal before any important decision can be reached. The argument in favour of the proposal embodied in this bill is that six representatives of the producers are to be appointed to the board. How many are there to-day i 
At present there are nine representatives of the producers, although it may be argued that some of them are not representatives of producing interests. 
They are appointed by the directors of the butter factories who are elected by the dairymen. These nine men are direct representatives of the dairymen. 
I do not think ths&gt; that is so, because the directors of the butter factories are elected by the dairymen. 
They are shareholders in the butter factories. 
It is necessary to have the widest possible choice in selecting representatives, and the view I take is that the best men should be selected regardless of whether they are, or are not, producers. The board is now becoming somewhat cumbersome. On the old board there were thirteen representatives - nine representing producers and four others - and by adding four more the board will not be strengthened. Surely a decision of a majority of the old board would be sufficient to protect the interests of primary producers in this  matter  ! It appears to me that this legislation has not been sought, and is really not desired. My- principal objection is to the proposed abolition of the Australian Dairy Council whose excellent work will be remembered for a very long time. The proposed alteration of the control will not affect, New South Wales as much as it will Victoria. Particularly in the matter of pasture improvement the council has rendered excellent service in Victoria. New South Wales has not done much in the matter of pasture improvement. 
One has only to look at the amounts paid as subsidy on the quantities of superphosphate purchased in New South Wales and Victoria respectively to determine that in the matter of pasture improvement more extensive work is undertaken in Victoria than in New South Wales. I believe the amount paid in Victoria is £125,000, and in New South Wale* only £30,000. The members of -the Australian Dairy Council, in co-operation with scientists in the Department o-' Agriculture, have devoted a good deal of time and money to pasture improvement and to research work in connexion with animal diseases. The work has notbeen costly, and the council is representative of the producers. The council is now to be abolished, but what is taking its place ? 
No State asked for the change unless it was New South Wales. 
The following resolution was passed : - 
That this meeting views with surprise the action of the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  in accepting, the recommendation of the Australian Agricultural Council to abolish the Australian Dairy Council in view of the assurance given by him at the National Dairy Conference held in Sydney in April last. 
I have no desire to delay the passage of this bill, but I consider that the existing representation of producers on the Dairy Produce Control Board is sufficient. A board of seventeen members will be both cumbersome and expensive. What is being substituted for the Australian Dairy Council? There are two bodies in existence to-day; first, the Australian Agricultural Council, which consists of  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, and the Minister of Agriculture of each State; and, secondly, the Advisory Council. The Agricultural Council is an excellent body of men, but they have not the time to devote to the scientific aspects of the industry. The Agricultural Advisory Council consists of heads of departments. 
No; it consists of heads of departments. I have nothing to say against heads of departments, who are excellent men in matters of theory, but are without practical knowledge. Men with practical experience of the industry are necessary on the board. The Government should have allowed the Australian Dairy Council to continue, especially in view of the praise that it has bestowed on that body. 
When did the Government praise the Australian Dairy Council ? 
Does the honorable senator think that the Australian Dairy Council is able to influence the quality of butter? 
The provision for the appointment of a representative of the dairy factory managers has removed some of my objection .to this measure. I had proposed to move that the bill be read this day six months, but as the representatives of the industry, although not satisfied with it, do not want to embarrass the Government, I shall not do so. 
I take the same view of this bill as does  Senator Gibson,  hut I shall go further than he proposes, for I shall vote against it. It is absolutely unnecessary, because the two bodies now in existence are doing their work well. Their duties are entirely different. The Dairy Produce Control Board deals with the shipping and selling of butter, and needs to have technical men on it. I have here the agenda paper for one of its meetings, and among the subjects for discussion are the London market; the proposed reconstitution of the board as recommended by the Australian Agricultural Council; marine insurance ; the policy of the Commonwealth Government with regard to certain aspects of marketing of Australian primary products abroad ; arrangements in relation to war risks; liability for stamp duty; all insurance matters; shipping; regulating butter shipments to the United Kingdom; English marketing scheme; and other matters which require trained men to deal with them. The Australian Dairy Council, which deals with pasture improvement, stock diseases and the manufacture and production of butter, requires as members men with a different training. These two bodies, which perform different work, are functioning splendidly, because their members  are eminently suited for the work that they are called upon to perform. If the Australian Dairy Council be wiped out, some of its members will probably be placed on the Australian Dairy Produce Board. The Government's proposal really amounts to an amalgamation of the two existing boards. If they are amalgamated, technical men will be asked to deal with farming problems, and farming men with technical problems. Men will have to devote time to subjects of which they know nothing. There has been no demand for the change, and it would be better to leave things as they are. I shall vote against the second reading, but; if it is carried, I shall, in committee, seek an explanation of some of the clauses, even if I do not move amendments to them. I agree with the proposal to put more representatives of the producers on the hoard, but I should like the Minister, when replying, to explain why there is to be only one representative for South Australia, "Western Australia and Tasmania. That representative is to be elected by the primary producers of those States. How will it be possible for primary producers thousands of miles apart to elect a representative? 
Fancy electing a representative on the board  by  a postal ballot  over such a large area of Australia! The existing boards, which are doing good -work, are not costly and should not be interfered with. I agree that every effort should be made to improve the quality of Australian butter, hut I cannot see how that can be done Letter by the proposed controlling body than by the two existing boards. There are several reasons why some Australian butter is not of the choicest quality. In some instances inferior butter is due to the nature of the pasture. There may be a clover taint in the butter. The dairyfarmers themselves, with the assistance of the technical officers of the State agricultural departments, are better able to deal with the problems that arise than are men trained in the export and sale of butter. 
I agree that there is not much margin between the grades; but I submit that practical men, assisted by the experts of the State Agricultural Departments, are more likely to ensure a higher percentage of choicest butter than are the shipping experts whom it is proposed to appoint to the board. 
I should like the Minister, when replying to the debate on the second reading, to say whether this bill affects the Butter 
Equalization Committee. I voted against the establishment of that body, which has no statutory power, and yet it is carrying out functions which .rightly belong to governments. The appointment of the Equalization Committee -was only a subterfuge to overcome a constitutional difficulty. That body, without statutory authority, imposes grossly unfair levies on the industry; this should not be allowed. I did not hear all the Minister's remarks; but, if the bill proposes to do away with the Equalization Committee, I shall support it. The action of that committee is causing untold hardship to numbers of small dairy-farmers - I allude not to butter factories, but to farm buttermakers - whom it has prosecuted and persecuted simply because they have not affixed a 2d. stamp to each pound of butter that they make. Its action is absolutely unconstitutional, and yet the Government has not intervened. 
I do not know. The Equalization Committee demanded that on every pound of butter, even that sold at 5d'. or 6d. per lb., a 2d. stamp should be affixed, and it prosecuted, those who failed to do so. in some cases, the committee obtained convictions, and fines were imposed. When the persons concerned refused to pay the fines, an attempt was made to place them in gaol; but they congregated in one place, and the police were not game to take them into custody. 
It was done under the authority of the committee. The prosecution of the dairy-farmers must have been launched under Commonwealth legislation because those producers were prohibited under the Commerce Act from exporting their butter, which was not pasteurized. If they desired to sell the butter, every pound of it had to bear an excise stamp on the wrapper. I shall support the second reading of this bill, if the  Minister  can convince me that it will abolish this committee which has hounded the dairyfarmers; otherwise, I shall vote with  Senator J.  B. Hayes in opposing the bill. 
.- I am one of those who think that the Government has treated the Australian Dairy Council with rather scant courtesy in the manner in which it has dismissed that body. The council has done valuable work; it was the originator of this class of legislation, and by its example, showed how other industries could be assisted. The Government has not made that acknowledgment of the work of the Council which was its due. In any case, I fail to see the necessity for this bill. When one body is doing a good job and the value of its services is freely acknowledged, what sense is there in suddenly deciding to upset it, not in the hope of obtaining a better substitute for it, but probably in the belief that the producers will be given a greater measure of control of the industry than hitherto? 
I have a good deal of sympathy for the members of this council, because the majority of them were my colleagues when I was on the land and engaged in a similar occupation, and they hav"e carried on the co-operation between producers. The council deserves the thanks of every butter producer for the way in which it has watched his interests. While I shall not go to the length of opposing this bill, I feel that the members of the council have not been fairly treated. 
One statement was made in the course of the debate which might re-act to the detriment of Victorian butter producers. The Senate has been told that New South Wales has a much larger proportion of the choicest butter than Victoria. That assertion may lead to a misconception of the true position. I do not know whether the grades are the same to-day, but if my memory serves me aright, the grade of choicest butter when I was a producer was 92; first grade was 91; and second grade, 90. Only a margin of 2 per cent, separated the three grades; but each is a good butter, although the first and second grades might not have been of the choicest quality. Not for one moment do I suggest that we should not try to improve the quality of butter, but I desire to prevent a slur from being cast on the Victorian product by a statement that dairymen in that State are not making good butter. After all, Victoria was the pioneer of this sort of control of dairying, and other States have learned a good deal from its example. For all legislation of this kind, somebody must pay. When a home-consumption price is fixed, who is required to pay for it? In this particular case, it is the consumer. I believe that some recognition should be accorded the fact that consumers, owing to the fixation of home consumption prices, are paying at least £2,000,000 a year more for essential commodities than they otherwise would have done. Still, the consumers are not complaining; they know that the producers of Australia have encountered bad times, and that national prosperity depends upon the speedy return to better conditions, for those who are producing wealth for the nation.- It should be recognized that consumers have made a considerable sacrifice in order to assist the return of prosperity to the producers, and I hope that when legislation affecting the consumers and the secondary industries comes before us, it will have the same sympathetic consideration from the representatives of the rural industries as we have given to measures for their protection and benefit. The secondary industries do not ask for direct financial assistance, such as is given to the primary producers, but they do expect a sympathetic understanding of their position in the economy of the nation as fellow wealth creators. I shall not go to the length of voting against the bill, although I fail to see the necessity for introducing it during the closing hours of the session. I do not consider that the measure will improve the lot of the butter producers in the slightest degree, and for the Government to rush through a bill of this nature so late in the session seems to me to be rather futile. If the measure is passed, well and good; it will not do any harm. In conclusion, I repeat that, in my opinion, a proper recognition has not been given by the Government and the people to the very excellent work of the Australian Dairy Council. 
 I have listened most attentively to the addresses of honorable senators on this bill, and I feel that a considerable misunderstanding exists with regard to its objective. To me the bill represents an improvement of the present situation. It is based upon the results of experience, and I am confident that it will be welcomed by the industry. Goodness only knows, when a primary-producing industry is offered legislation calculated to improve its condition and the industry itself is satisfied that the provisions will be beneficial to it, the offer should be seized by honorable senators with both hands. I am particularly interested in the remarks of  Senator Gibson,  who in his speech detailed a number of important considerations, many of which are definitely vital to the bill. On one point, however, I desire to join issue with him.  Senator Gibson  stated that he thought that the discontent with the present organization or the agitation for this legislation, originated in New South Wales; or, to put it in another form, he thought that the move for the re-organization of the dairying industry was limited to New South Wales. 
 Senator Gibson  inferred that this agitation was not representative of the feeling of dairymen in other States, but we should make inquiries as to whether the dairymen of the other States really speak for the industry or not. To illustrate my contention, I propose to quote some very significant figures. In value of butter production, New South Wales headed the list in 1933-34 with £6,070,000. We may deduce from that fact that New South Wales is the largest butter-producing State in the Commonwealth. Queensland followed with a production of £5,629,000 and Victoria £5,510,000. Thus between them New South Wales and Queensland produced butter to a value of nearly £12,000,000. South Australia's production totalled £961,000, or less than one fifth of that of Queensland, Victoria, or New South Wales, while the values in Western Australia and Tasmania were £606,000 and £402,000 respectively. In quoting these figures, . I wish to make it clear that 
I am. not making an attempt to decry the smaller volume of dairying carried on in these States, but simply show their economic relationship to the larger States in this connexion. If we are prepared to examine this matter without prejudice, we must admit that the great volume of production is located in New South Wales and Queensland, whose combined production represents more than 50 per cent, of the total production of the Commonwealth. Therefore, even if agitation is limited to those two States it could well be said that the agitation represented the majority of the producers. I do not quote these figures as a request to the smaller States to sacrifice any of their representation on the board controlling the industry; but I desire to point out that it is not a small minority in New South Wales alone that is in favour of the proposal for re-organization as outlined in the bill - the change is desired by the majority. Let us go back to the actual authoritative views of the industry, because whenever confusion arises in an industry, one should go to the authoritative source for information. I think that the greatest assembly of dairy and butter authorities ever gathered in Australia met at the national conference held in Sydney a few months ago, and it passed a motion in favour of the re-organization plan. What was said at that gathering?  Dr. Earle  Page gave lucidly and in tabloid fashion his reasons for the proposed re-organization of the industry. He said - 
My reason for the suggested alteration is that if we could possibly set a  body  into existence that had some statutory power we might get somewhere with regard to its recommendations and activities. The Australian Dairy Council, as has been pointed out, is much more feeble than it should be by reason of the fact that it has no statutory existence, but exists simply by virtue of the fact that finance is provided for it by a levy. It li.is  jio  outside powers. 
The Australian Dairy Council has no statutory power : i desire honorable senators to appreciate the significance of that statement. Upon analysis, it will be found that support for  Dr. Earle  Page's address was not confined to New South Wales or Queensland, but also came from men in the smaller States. That again contradicts  Senator 
Gibson's contention that the dissatisfaction is more or less wholly centred in New South Wales.  Mr. R.  Hewland,  of South Australia, representing the State Quota Board, supported the re-organization, and I propose to quote his comments.  Mr. R.  Hewland, of South Australia, speaking in support of the proposed re-organization of the industry, said - 
Without criticizing either one of two bodies which have done very valuable work for the dairying industry, it seems to me that the time has now arrived when it would be more advantageous to have one body discharging the functions which have hitherto been discharged by the two separate bodies. 
Support also comes from Western Australia.  Mr. Pickering,  the producers' representative at the conference, favoured the proposal. 
That question was raised at the conference. At  Mr. Pickering's  'request, the conference examined his credentials and accepted them without reserve.  Mr. Pickering  said - 
At the meeting which I attended yesterday great stress was placed on the work of the two bodies which we now seek to amalgamate. One representative said that he thought that the trend of 'business which occupied the attention of the Australian Dairy Council was so great that, if it were made one body, wo would fmd it almost impossible to cope with the work. 
That, observation was a frank recognition of the facts.  Mr. Pickering  went on to say - 
Much of that work is unnecessary and much over-rated- 
That, of course, is his personal opinion - 
If anything can be done to amalgamate the industry to consolidate the organization, that will be of material advantage to every section. 
As I have shown, New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria are the three great butter-producing States. They are. therefore, vitally interested in the scheme. New South Wales and Queensland are in support of it, and at the national conference the representatives of Western Australia and South Australia also announced their approval. These facts should induce the Senate to carry the bill. Critics of the measure have asserted that as both boards were functioning satisfactorily there is no need to make the change. How can that be true when neither body has authority to deal with the quality of the butter? The Australian Dairy Council has no statutory power, and the Dairy Produce Control Board exercises jurisdiction only over butter when it is submitted for export.  Dr. Earle  Page, speaking at the National Conference, emphasized that there appeared to be no specific concentration on the improvement of quality. " Surely ", he said, " there should be somebody whose job it is to concentrate on quality." Will any honorable senator who is opposing the bill say that it is not essential, in the interests of the dairying industry, that only the highest quality of butter shall be exported? One of the delegates at the conference interjected whilst  Dr. Earle  Page was speaking that there was in existence a body whose duty it was to deal with the quality of butter produced, and when invited to name the organization, he replied " The Australian Dairy  Council ".  Dr. Earle  Page made it clear, however, that the council, as at present constituted, was powerless in respect of that phase of the industry. Continuing, he said - 
It [the council] is not concentrating on that to a degree which is effective. That is owing to the division of the control of the industry into so many boards. We have not one body which deals with the whole of this question, and which can enforce its decisions. Is there not, in fact, a danger that the fixation of a high internal price, the narrow margins between choicest and lower grades, and the equalization of returns, will cause a further decline in quality unless positive steps are taken to check the decline and effect an improvement? This would be disastrous to our position in the British market. 
A survey of the industry discloses that in Western Australia the percentage of choicest butter exported in 1933-34 was only 45, compared with 82.91 in New South Wales, 36.9 in Victoria, 49.23 in Queensland, 27.64 in South Australia and 48.6 in Tasmania. 
I turn now to consider the position with regard to the Dairy Produce Control Board. I do not wish honorable senators to gain the impression from anything I may say that I am disparaging the work done by that body in the past. But, when there is a misunderstanding, it is only right that we should endeavour to clear away the fog3 of confusion, in order to ascertain the true position. The tenth annual report of the Dairy Produce Control Board for the year ended the 30th June, 1935, states under the heading " National Dairy Conference " - 
Members of this board appreciated your statement to the conference that the work done by the board is beyond all praise; its constitution in regard to its personnel and experience leave nothing to be desired. 
What is the implication of that reference? Is it not that the acting Prime Minister, to whom the report was made, was so satisfied with the Australian Dairy Council that he went out of his way to say that its work was beyond all praise, and that' the personnel left nothing to be desired? That, I believe, is the inference to be drawn from the printed report. The following quotation from the report of the conference shows that  Dr. Earle  Page was referring, not to the Australian Dairy Council, but to th? Control Board. This is what the Minister for Commerce said - 
So far as the Export Control Board is concerned, there is no thought of interfering with its power in the slightest degree. My attitude and that of the Commonwealth Government is that the extension of a similar principle to other industries is the only way in which we can help to satisfactorily solve our marketing problems. The efforts which have been put forward by the Dairy Export Board, which is the child of the Bruce-Page Government, shows precisely where 1 stand in this matter. The work done by that board is beyond all praise. Its composition in regard to its personnel and experience leave nothing to be desired. 
I am convinced that much of the misunderstanding that has arisen in connexion with the bill is due to the general belief that the remarks made by  Dr. Earle  Page on the occasion referred to were in respect of the work done by the Australian Dairy Council, whereas he was speaking of the work done by the Dairy Produce Control Board. 
I desire now to say a few words on the subject of producer control. Although there may be objection in some quarters to an undiluted measure of producer control of this industry, the objective should be to secure a balance of the elements of the industry, and in that way aim at an ideal organization.  Dr. 
Earle Page, speaking at the National Dairy Conference on this subject, said - 
It seems to me that the' people . who should have the final say in this matter are thu producers of butter in Australia. The Commonwealth Government felt that there should be full representation of the producers, together with the various boards representing the producers. 

 Mr. Pickering, the representative of Western Australian producers, advocates producer control. 
He was appointed by the Western Australian Government to represent the producers of Western Australia, and his credentials having been examined, he was accepted by the conference. In any event, objection to  Mr. Pickering's  bona fides are not now relevant. Speaking on the question of producer control, he said - 
I would like to draw attention to the wide range of difference between the u mount o£ capital involved in the producing section as against the manufacturing. So great is the difference that the comparison is absurd. If we, as producers, have such large vested interests, we are entitled to some representation on any body which controls the distribution and sale of our products. 
I am satisfied with the representation provided in the bill, although I admit that I would have liked to see more than four producers appointed to the board. We have to realize, however, that any organization, to he efficient and work smoothly, must be well balanced. I believe that we shall have a reasonably well-balanced organization and that the interests of the producers will be amply safeguarded. I do not suggest, as some honorable senators have done, that the Government should have doubled the producer representation on the board; but I do say that there is now definite recognition of the principle of producer control, and perhaps at a later stage it may be possible to secure an increase of producers' representatives on that body. 
We have heard dissentient voices in the debate this afternoon. In a chamber representing all States and several shades of political opinion, it would be extraordinary if there were not some divergence of opinion. I contend, however, that the bill gives effect to the decisions of the National Dairy Conference, and that the dairying interests of Queensland, New South Wales, and the vast majority of the producers in the smaller States are unanimously in favour of the proposal. 
It is true that some objection has been raised from Victoria; but, with all due deference to the arguments adduced by  Senator Gibson,  I contend that the majority of those interested in dairying throughout Australia are wholeheartedly behind the bill, which crystallizes the experience of dairymen over the last few years. I support the bill. 
I listened very attentively to the Assistant Minister's second-reading speech, and I think every honorable senator will admit that his remarks in the main were commendatory of the work done by the present organizations in the . industry. It is not for honorable senators to prove that the proposed change is necessary; that is the duty of those who advocate the change, particularly the Assistant Minister. But he did not advance any conclusive proof or evidence that the producers themselves asked for the change. I do not say this with any intention whatever to question the Government's sincere desire to do the right thing for this industry. But is it not fair to assume that an industry, which is so important to Australia as the dairying industry, would, itself, make some definite request for this legislation? The Government controls exports; can it show to honorable senators that conditions in that sphere of the industry are chaotic, that the quality of our butter is inferior to that exported by other countries, that the present organizations controlling the industry internally and externally are unprogressive, or that there has not been progressive improvement of our dairy herds and pastures? The progress made by the dairying industry is a tribute to those men who pioneered it and built it up to what it is to-day. I was very interested in  Senator Hardy's  remarks. Beyond pointing out that a conference which was held in Sydney desired it, he failed to show that this change is needed. He laid stress on the wishes of this conference which was composed in the main of Directors of Agriculture, officers of the Agricultural Department, and non-producers. Prompted no doubt by the best of motives this conference asked that something should be done for the industry along the lines of this bill, but we must study this matter very closely to see whether there is a genuine desire on the industry itself for such a change. What is the origin of this proposal? It did not originate with the dairymen themselves, in whose interests we are asked to pass this bill; no request of this nature has ever been made by the dairymen. That fact is proved even by the Assistant Minister's speech, which from beginning ro end was a commendation of those who have controlled this industry for the past fifteen years. 
I shall be surprised if the honorable senator's interjection is the only basis for this legislation which proposes to bring about drastic changes in one of our most important industries. Any government which realizes its responsibilities is influenced to introduce legislation by one of two reasons : first, because the interests of the nation as a whole require that certain work shall be clone, in which, circumstances legislation is introduced whether or not it is asked for by any section of the community; and, secondly, it is expressly asked for by those directly affected by it to achieve certain objects. Such representations are usually made through bodies directly representative of those engaged in the industry, and such organizations as chambers of commerce and chambers of manufactures. In respect of the latter class of legislation, the Government has always followed the practice, and quite rightly so, of consulting those directly connected with the industry which will, be most affected. I ask the Assistant Minister and  Senator Hardy  whether direct representatives of the producers have been consulted in this instance. They have not. Why should this Parliament meddle with such an important industry as dairying when it is doing so well as the result of the efforts and enthusiasm of those now responsible for its internal and external policy? 
The position in regard to that industry is entirely different. That industry is at its lowest ebb for many years, because prices are so low that the growers are unable to carry on and it was under such circumstances that they made strong representations to this Parliament for assistance. I challenge the honorable senator to produce similar evidence that the dairymen have asked for the assistance embodied in this measure. They have not done so. This is another example of unwarranted governmental interference which can only have th&lt;&gt; effect of upsetting the industry. Without any desire for such assistance having been expressed by those engaged in the industry the Government has seen fit to introduce this proposal. It is made to appear, although not with any intention tn deceive honorable senators, that this measure has resulted from requests by the producers of butter. Judging by the provisions of the bill one would imagine that this industry was new; that the Government was giving assistance in order thai it might be established; or that the industry, in all its ramifications, was in a  chaotic  state and that Australian butter was so inferior to that of all other countries, that immediate remedial measures were essential. 
I do not admit that a resolution of that conference that certain things should or should not be done is sufficient reason for this Government to introduce this measure to bring about drastic changes in the industry. 
Another point made by  Senator Hardy  was that the present Dairy Council has no legislative authority to carry out its 
[95 
decisions. He then referred to the small proportion of first-class butter being produced in Australia to-day. Honorable senators know full well, .that irrespective of existing organizations, the quality of butter is determined solely by inspections made before the butter is exported. If there were 50 boards which concerned themselves with this matter the quality of butter would ultimately be determined by official inspection. This measure is an experiment which may prove very expensive to this industry. I believe that the Government would be well advised to leave the industry to the dairymen themselves and to continue to give a free hand to those organizations that have carried on so successfully to date. The less the Government interferes with industry the better it will be for industry generally. Leave the management of the butter industry to those men who have pioneered it and. have borne the heat and burden of the day in building it up to what it is at the present time ! The organizations have done well for the dairying industry; my advice is. " Leave well alone." I intend to vote against the bill. 
I cannot see that this measure Will confer any particular advantage upon the dairying industry. Certainly it consolidates the management of the industry but I agree with an honorable senator who said that the dairying industry may be divided into two parts - the commercial and the producing. As has been pointed out already in this debate the Australian Dairy Council, which the Government now proposes to scrap, has proved of great value to this industry. Most of the phases of the industry which I intended to deal with have been fully discussed by previous speakers, but none dealt in a special way with the quality of our butter. Although I have looked carefully through the bill I have failed to discover in what way it can effect an improvement in this respect. When he introduced this measure in another place, the Minister for Commerce, said - 
It appears that despite the activities of all these bodies there is no specific concentration on the improvement of the quality of our dairy produce; yet this is of paramount importance. 
In the next paragraph of his speech the Minister practically contradicted that assertion by saying - 
The functions of the State dairy produce boards are performed under State legislation whilst the Equalization Committee is a special body formed for a specific purpose which is not a direct concern of any government. 
I understand that the control of the quality of export butter is entirely governed by State legislation. The Australian Dairy Council has the right to frame regulations, which are placed before the State parliaments, and up to the present such regulations have never been rejected. Some time ago the council asked the Commonwealth authorities to take charge of exports at the factories, in order to assist in improving the quality of Australian butter, but it declined to assume any responsibility in that respect. It is proposed to abolish the Australian Dairy Council, but the proposed board will not have any greater power in the matter of suggesting how improvements can be effected in the quality of Australian butter. At present the council has the right to frame regulations in respect of butter and cheese. 
Honorable senators will remember that when I raised this subject on the 22nd October, I urged the Government and the Leader of the Country pary in this chamber  (Senator Hardy)  to take a broader outlook on the whole matter, and not to think only of New South Wales, which apparently  is  playing a major part in connexion with this bill. When I made a plea to  Senator Hardy  he misconstrued my attitude, and alleged that I made an attack upon him. The attack had not then commenced. Apparently, the battle is to be waged this afternoon, but even before the result is announced, I appeal to the honorable senator to view this matter from the broadest Australian view-point, with special regard to Western Australia, which, as yet, is not so materially interested in the export of butter as are  some of the other States. Less than three years ago, Western Australia exported to the United Kingdom its first consignment of choice butter. As is well  known, during certain dry periods that State has to obtain some of its supplies from New South Wales. The ramifications of the Control Board are not so important to Western Australia as is the service rendered! to the industry by the Australian Dairy Council, which is what we might term a domestic organization, serving, by and large, those engaged in the dairying industry. I again appeal to the Government not to proceed with this bill. I re-submit the suggestion that the passing of this measure and the abolition of the Australian Dairy Council will affect seriously the less populous States. "We have heard, and we have read in the press, what the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  said, or did not say, at the conference held in Sydney in April. At the eleventh hour  Senator Hardy  produces the transcript of notes taken at the conference. We have never heard of them before. All that we have had to date is the official report of what occurred at that conference. We cannot deny that the Minister for Commerce paid to the members of the Australian Dairy Council a very high compliment, and that these complimentary remarks were not applied to the members of the Dairy Produce Control Board as  Senator Hardy  stated. In his statement the Minister acknowledged the patriotic efforts made by the members of the council, who, he said, had performed a volume of exceedingly good work. Its members, he said, were not on trial. Is there any reason why the Minister should alter his opinion concerning these gentlemen who come from various States, and who have given a good deal of their time, at their own expense, to improve the Australian dairying industry? The satisfactory position which the butter industry occupies to-day is the result of the voluntary efforts of these gentleman, who are to be ruthlessly cast aside to make way for others who may be just as worthy, but are as yet, untried. These stalwarts' in the industry have proved their worth, and by capable administration and research work in such matters as herd testing, segregation of grass seeds, pasture development, animal diseases, and a host of other important duties, have been of great value to the industry. 
They have gained very valuable experience, but the new board is to reap the benefit of the extensive voluntary work they have undertaken. I submit that it is neither reasonable nor fair to propose, a change. Full information on this subject may be found in my speech made on the 24th October last and recorded on page 1060 of  Hansard.  There is no reason why the industry should be placed at a disadvantage by such a sudden upheaval. The adoption of this bill will not result in the production of an additional pound of .butter. There is no need to rush the measure through Parliament; the industry has prospered without it. What is needed is ah organization to help the dairymen to build up the industry in Australia. Despite the many sneering remarks hurled at the groupsettlement scheme in Western Australia, initiated by  Sir James  Mitchell, it was this scheme which was responsible for the butter first exported from that State. Had activities not developed as they have, we would still be purchasing all our butter from the eastern States.  Senator Hardy  quoted some rather startling figures concerning exports. 

 Senator ALLAN" MacDONALDRegarding the proposed amendment to put one extra producer on the board for each State instead of one each for Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria, and one to represent Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania, it is interesting to note the quantity of butter exported to the United Kingdom from the respective States for the last four seasons, ended the 30th June, 1935 - 

<graphic href="148332193512064_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen that Queensland, not New South Wales, heads the list. I have given the export figures. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The honorable senator has not raised a point of order.  His  remarks should have been made as a personal explanation. 
As this bill deals with the constitution of a body to control the export of butter, the material consideration is not which State is the greatest producer of butter, but which State exports the most butter. The official figures which  1  have quoted show that Queensland exports more butter than does any other State, and that Victoria comes next. Here, I desire to say that I am not at all convinced that Victorian butter is of the inferior grade which has been mentioned in this chamber to-day. New South Wales comes a bad third. Using, for the moment, the logic employed by  Senator Hardy,  I would say that the interest of New South Wales in the board to control the export of butter is only half that of Queensland, and a little more than half that of Victoria. It is difficult to understand the reason for the agitation by New South Wales to upset a state of affairs which has been of great benefit to the industry. 
 I have heard of some agitation, but it all comes from one quarter^ As wiser men than I have remarked on many occasions, " Methinks there is a nigger in the woodpile." I shall not say more at this stage, but shall vote against the bill. 
Realizing that honorable senators wish to discuss the bill in committee, I shall be brief.  Senator Allan  MacDonald and  Senator Herbert  Hays have both asked whether there has been any agitation for the change proposed in this measure. Some honorable senators would have us believe that the only State which desires a change is New South Wales, but that is not so. I suggest that we shall show a poor spirit if, in considering legislation brought before us, we take a parochial view. All legislation should be considered on its merits, and, therefore, this bill should be viewed in the light of its probable effect, not on any one State, but on the butter industry of Australia. Reference has been made to the Agricultural Council which recommended the scheme embodied in this bill. That recommendation was made only on the advice of some of the most expert brains in the several States. The Agricultural Council, having Considered all the facts, and having had regard to the interests of Australia, as a whole, decided on the scheme which is before the Senate in this measure. As reference has been made to the representation of the States on the Agricultural Council, I point out that that body has the benefit of the experience of the experts of the agricultural departments of the States. The representative of the Agricultural Department of South Australia is a man of outstanding ability, and is typical of the men who made this decision. Their object was an improvement of conditions in an important industry. Practical men engaged in the dairying industry are grateful to the Minister and to the Agricultural Council for the assistance rendered to the industry by these experts.  Senator Herbert  Hays said that the representatives of the dairying industry do not want this change. 
Only to-day honorable senators representing South Australia received a telegram from the South 
Australian Dairymen's Association, urging them to support the decisions of the Agricultural Council. That telegram is evidence that the dairymen of South Australia are behind the scheme embodied in this bill. They, however, desire to know why the Government departed from the original suggestion of the Australian Agricultural Council that the controlling body should consist of thirteen members. The dairymen still want that number. If the Minister can satisfy me that a good reason exists for altering the number of members from thirteen to seventeen, I shall support the bill. 
I have listened attentively to the discussion in the hope that I would hear sufficient evidence in favour of the bill to induce me to support the second reading. Prior to coming into the chamber,I perused an extensive file on this subject, and also conferred with a number of persons who are interested in the dairying industry. I was anxious to ascertain, if possible, the need for an alteration of the existing state of affairs. I know something of the work that has been done by the Australian Dairy Council and the Dairy Produce Control Board, and am pleased to say that it is appreciated by those engaged in the dairying industry. I also endeavoured to ascertain how the Minister chiefly responsible for the introduction of this measure - I refer to the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  - regards those bodies, and was gratified to read, in speeches delivered by him at conferences and elsewhere, tributes to the gentlemen who comprise them. I do not profess to know all the ramifications of the dairying industry in Australia, but, as I have lived for many years in an important dairying district, I have some knowledge of dairying and naturally I am interested in the success of that industry. In correspondence which has been forwarded to me, I have read expressions of opinion by men more qualified to speak on this subject than I am - men to whom has been entrusted the responsibility of controlling, in some measure, this valuable industry. I shall take the liberty to quote a few extracts from the correspondence which I have received. I have here a letter dated the 12th Septem ber, 1935, from  Mr. P.  J. Holdenson,  chairman  of the Victorian Proprietary Butter, Cheese and Milk Products Manufacturers Association, who, referring to the* proposal to introduce legislation, said - 
Before any such drastic alterations are -brought before Parliament, it is respectfully suggested that the Government should arrange to call a conference to fully discuss the position and to make recommendations on the matter, and, as the directors cf Co-operative B utter and Cheese factories are elected by the various Co-operative shareholders and suppliers to supervise the manufacture and marketing of their produce, and owners of proprietary factories who are entrusted by their suppliers to manufacture and market their produce, and are, .therefore, directly responsible to their producers, the conference should be called in the following manner: - Meetings of all Co-operative factories to be called in each State to elect persons to represent them at the conference on the basis of, say, six from each of the three larger States, and two from each of the three smaller States. 
That letter was sent to the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  who replied that last April an important conference was held in Sydney, as a result of which legislation would be introduced. The measure before us is the legislation referred to. In further letters to the secretary of the Department of Commerce,  Mr. Holdenson  submitted that there had not been ample opportunity for discussion at the conference, and that two resolutions were passed with a narrow majority in each instance, the voting being seventeen to sixteen, and that another proposal was negatived by eighteen to fifteen votes. But the vital resolution read as follows: - 
That the Export Control Board be reconstituted and three producers be placed on that board and that the f.o.b. sellers' representative be eliminated from it. 
This was agreed to by 27 votes to 60.  Mr. Holdenson  proceeded - 
I may say that had the resolution only provided for the addition of three producers being elected to the board, it would have been carried unanimously, ns it is believed that six dissentients were gentlemen who recognized with others the outstanding services rendered to the board by f.o.b. sellers' representatives. 
But, strange to say, I find that - 
Seeing, however that the Minister for Commerce, the Australian Agricultural Council and the Standing Committee of Agriculture turned down all the resolutions carried at the conference, I have come to the conclusion that the Minister and the two bodies referred to must have felt that the National Dairy Conference was not truly representative of the industry with which to some extent I agree as I and many others connected with the industry feel that the true representatives- of the producers and the industry are the directors of co-operative factories and owners ot other factories entrusted with the manufacture and marketing of their produce, hence the suggestion for calling a conference on the lines indicated in my letter to the Minister. I regret very much to see that he does not agree with my view. 
Will the Minister explain wherein lies the necessity for this haste to pass the bill, and what is the justification for rejecting the request of a gentleman of the status of the writer of this letter when, it is admitted that he is vitally interested in the prosperity of this great industry! Surely if there was a possibility of obtaining further enlightenment as to the best procedure to be adopted for the improvement of the industry, the request for another conference ought to have been conceded. If that had been done, I am confident that the amount of feeling exhibited in Parliament in the discussion of the present measure would not have been engendered. I do not propose to weary the Senate for I know that the Minister desires to make progress with the bill; but I am anxious to assist the industry. I know of no action taken by either of the two bodies, that would be calculated to injure the dairying industry in any way. Consequently, unless I can be shown a vital necessity for taking this grave step to eliminate the two bodies which have performed such excellent work, I am not prepared to support the second reading of the bill. 
The Australian Dairy Council in Sydney recommended that six producer representatives should be placed on this board; the recommendation received wide publicity, and was generally approved by the producers themselves. I believe that it was on that basis that the Government's proposals were approved in Western Australia by the Primary Producers Association, which represents the dairying industry, and which telegraphed to  Dr. Earle  Page its approval of the proposals. Now, however, the basis of producer representation has been altered.. Whereas the original proposal was to create a board of thirteen members - of which six would be producers, each one representing a State - the personnel of the board has now been increased to seventeen, and the number of representatives of the producers has been reduced from six to four. Whilst Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland will each elect a representative, Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia will be called upon to conduct a joint ballot to elect one person to represent their interests. In other words, the arrangement that a large number of' Western Australian producers supported has been entirely changed by the elimination of the producers' representative proposed for that State. I have both written to and interviewed Ministers on this subject but have been given no reason for this alteration. The dairying industry, so far as export is concerned, is comparatively new in Western Australia, but at the same time it should be encouraged. I have received the following telegram from the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia in connexion with this bill: - 
We emphatically protest against Government's altered plans for dairy export control and urge you press for Page's original plan for board of thirteen including one direct representative of producers each State. 
I know that the representatives of some co-operative factories will be producers as well; but this association desired that the original promise in regard to representation should be kept. In my opinion, the proposal to elect one representative of the three smaller States is both unsatisfactory and inadequate. Certainly it is unsatisfactory to the producers of Western Australia to be obliged to take part in &amp; joint ballot with those of South Australia and Tasmania to elect one representative. How is this gentleman to be elected, and where will the man with a knowledge of the conditions in the three smaller States, which are separated by a distance of 2,000 miles, be found? I believe absolutely in producer representation for the different States in regard to the control of our primary industries, but it seems to me to be a quaint kind of producer control when three States so widely separated are asked to ballot for 'the appointment of one producer representative. The ballot would also be expensive to  conduct. If I had been given an assurance that the Government would adopt the request of the Primary Producers Association to restore to the dairy producers of "Western Australia the right to elect a representative, I would have supported the bill; but in the absence of such a provision, I shall vote against the measure, because it is unjust to the dairy farmers of Western Australia who, through their organization, have expressed disappointment at the change which, they state, has been made by  Dr. Earle  Page. 
Seldom does one find in this chamber so much doubt exhibited in regard to a bill. I am not at all surprised at that, because there appears to be doubt and confusion, not only in Parliament, but outside it. ,So far as I can ascertain, every section of persons interested in the dairy industry seems to have held conflicting opinions as to what should be done in the best interests of the industry. I have received communications - which I do not propose to read - from all manner of persons and organizations engaged in this industry, and they have expressed widely dissimilar views. That doubt and confusion appears to some extent to have communicated itself to the Minister for Commerce, who was responsible for the preparation of the bill, because several differing suggestions regarding the representation on the board have been brought before Parliament for consideration. I do not wish to pose as an expert on the dairying industry, but I approach this matter from the angle of a member of Parliament desirous of doing the correct and sensible thing. I ask myself, " Is there any need for a change in the representation on the board and is this legislation necessary?" So far as I can judge, no reason or need has been shown, for the change. Everybody seems to be unanimous on the point that the two existing bodies have done their work ably. Why then change them? Is it with any desire to affect a change of personnel ? If so, I am rather against such a change. I call to mind an old saying that " Old friends are the best ". I am not acquainted with any member of either of the existing bodies; therefore I cannot be accused of using the expression " old friends " in any personal sense. To use a less elegant colloquialism I might also say " Better the devil you know than the devil you don't know". If the two existing boards are giving satisfaction, why change them for another? Prom the outset I am rather inclined to keep to the present system, which appears, up to date, to have worked well. I am strengthened in that idea by the fact brought out by  Senator James  McLachlan that the two existing boards perform completely different work, and if they be amalgamated, half of the members of the new board might know nothing about marketing, while the other half might know little about production. In my opinion, those who understand the productive side of dairying should keep to this province, while experts on marketing should be confined to theirs. As a primary producer I have no belief that, generally speaking, the producer is as competent as some other persons to control marketing. The primary producer has his own job to do; and the man who sells the produce certainly could not work as effectively in the actual field of production as the primary producer himself. But in the marketing of the produce overseas, to me it is perfectly obvious that the expert who has made this matter his life's study is the man for the job. Without any more ado, I propose to follow the general lines suggested by Senators Gibson, James McLachlan and Payne. I wish it to be understood that I take this course without being actuated by any animus against the Government. This bill raises the issue of what is the sensible and best course to follow. I consider that the best course is that which has been proved ; we should not venture into uncharted waters; and, therefore, I propose to vote against the second reading of the bill. . 
In regard to the attitude of  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  I point out that we would never advance very far in anything if we were to rest content with the institutions which we have. When I say that, I desire it to be understood that the Government,  in no way, desires to reflect on the good work done by the existing bodies, but I shall endeavour to allay the fear that their good work will be discontinued under the proposals contained in the new measure. There is no intention of hampering in any way the work of the new board. All this bill proposes to do is to combine in one board the work which is now being done by the two existing bodies. It has been suggested that the new board will be a somewhat cumbersome body. As to that, I can only say that the Dairy Produce Control Board consists of thirteen members, and the Australian Dairy Council of twelve members, making a total of 25 members. The new body, which will do the work of the board and council,- will have a total personnel of seventeen. Objection has been taken that the Government has introduced a bill the provisions of which depart from a scheme originally put forward. On that point I can only say that responsibility for any measure that comes before Parliament rests, not with any outside body, but with the Government. The Ministry is not bound to accept in every particular the recommendations of the Agricultural Council. The enlargement of the personnel of the board' was decided upon as the result of strong representations from producers and -others in order to retain on the new board the services of experts associated with the dairy council, and who, but for the enlargement of the personnel, would have been excluded from the new board.  Senator Leckie  spoke of the scant courtesy which, he said, had been shown the Australian Dairy Council. My reply is that that body has not been treated with scant courtesy.  Senator Hardy  has pointed out that the Minister for Commerce, who, perhaps more than any other individual, is responsible for this measure, at the National Dairy Conference spoke in the highest terms of the good work which had been done by the Australian Dairy Council. I cannot, as honorable senators will realize, occupy a great deal of time in replying to the criticism of the bill, because other measures are awaiting consideration, and honorable gentlemen desire soon to be released from their duties. I would, how- ever, like to reply briefly to the observations made with regard to the representation of the three smaller States, by pointing out that the proportion of representation given to them is very much larger than is justified by their total production in comparison with that of the other States. During the last four years Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria have exported 364,000 tons of butter, and South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania have exported 25,848 tons. With the voice which the smaller States have on the board through their cooperative organizations, their representation, on a numerical basis, is, so far from being skimped, actually generous.  Senator Herbert  Hays and other honorable senators said that  no  complaint had been made about the work which had been done by the dairy council and the export control board, and urged on that ground that no demand had been made for a change in the system of control. As to that, I merely say, adapting the words of  Senator Hardy,  that not one word of protest has been raised against the proposed constitution of the new board ; on the contrary, hundreds of telegrams and messages have been received by the Minister for Commerce approving of what has been done. 
I do not agree with the honorable gentleman. Protests, if any, would be much more likely to be addressed to the Minister for Commerce. With regard to the eulogies that have been paid to the existing organizations, I do not wish to. say anything which may be taken as criticism of the work which they have done, but I point out that, between 19'26-27 and this year, the exports of choicest Australian butter in relation to total exports has declined from 68 per cent, to 49 per cent. During those years the percentage of choicest butter exported from New South Wales increased, but from Victoria it declined from 80 per cent, to 43 per cent., and in respect of Queensland from 55 per cent, to 40 per cent. 
I agree with the honorable senator. The figures show that there is room for a great deal of improvement in our export trade. 
Speaking generally, the Government has given close attention to this verydifficult problem, and in introducing this legislation it has no intention whatever of reflecting upon those who, in the past, have done such good work for the industry. It realizes, however, that the industry cannot stand still. The bill represents the considered opinion of the Government, and particularly of the Minister for Commerce and the experts of his department. 
I desire to make a personal explanation. I have always understood that, while the bells are ringing, the chamber doors remain unlocked. While the bells were ringing, I attempted to enter the chamber to record my vote in support of the Dairy Produce Export Control Bill, but found the doors locked. Is it not possible to arrange for the bells to cease ringing simultaneously with the locking of the doors? 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch)  .  - The Standing Orders provide that the bells shall be rung for two minutes prior to taking a decision. If the honorable senator was unable to record his vote for the reason stated, it was obviously his own fault. 
.- When speaking on the second reading of this bill, I obtained leave to continue my remarks to enable the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  to move the secondreading of the Dairy Produce Export Control Bill. I had said that, apparently, the Government had ordered a coffin for the Australian Dairy Council before it was dead, but, as it has now ceased to exist after having done good work, I trust that it will be given a decent burial. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[4.31.].  -  I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The provisions of clause 8 could not be applied to ships licensed by foreign countries. The amendment will exempt ships so licensed. 
Motion agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
[4.35]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I find a peculiar pleasure in moving this motion, because, on the 20th October, 1911, I had the honour to move the second reading of the bill for the construction of the trans-Australian railway. 
Yes; and it is with pleasure and pride that I now move for the construction of this further section of railway which, when completed, will make the east-west line much more a really trans-continental railway. 
This bill provides for ratifying an agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of South Australia. Under the terms of the agreement it is to be ratified by the parliaments of both the Commonwealth and the State. 
Honorable senators will be aware that a previous agreement was made on the 18th September, 1925, between the Commonwealth and the State of South Australia providing for certain railway proposals. Briefly, those proposals were :  - 
The building by the Commonwealth of a railway from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs. 
The construction of a railway by the . Commonwealth from Port Augusta to Red Hill, and the provision of a third rail on the existing 5-ft. 3-in. gauge railway between Red Hill and Adelaide at the expense of the Commonwealth ; the provision of a third rail on the 4-ft. 81/2in. gauge railway between Red Hill and a point near Port Pirie  at the expense  of  the  State. 
The Commonwealth built the railway from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs, and the railway was opened for public traffic on the 2nd August, 1929. 
As honorable senators know, there has been very considerable controversy regarding the railway between Port Augusta and Red Hill and the third rail on to Adelaide. The outcome of the negotiations and conferences is the agreement incorporated in the measure now submitted. 
Briefly, the arrangement embodied in the agreement which the Senate is now asked to ratify is that the State will, at its own expense, extend its existing 5-ft. 3-in. gauge railway from Red Hill to Port Pirie, a distance of approximately 281/2 miles, and that the Commonwealth will extend its standard 4-ft. 81/2-in. gauge railway from Port Augusta to Port Pirie, a distance of approximately 561/2 miles. These railways will meet at a junction point at Solomontown, which is an appropriately-named suburb of Port Pirie, where a depot will be constructed with adequate platform, station buildings, and transfer facilities, to permit effective transfer of passengers, goods and other traffic. 
The work to be provided by this agreement will mean the expenditure of a sum considerably lower than that which would have been necessary under the old agreement. That expenditure would have been at least £1,275,000, whereas under the new agreement the Commonwealth and State expenditure combined is estimated at £940,000, a saving of approximately £335,000. 
The shorter journey - about 70 miles less than the present route - and the great saving of time, will make a tremendous difference to overland travel. In addition to the great saving of travel time, which between Perth and Adelaide  can be reckoned as one day, the journey will be made under much more comfortable conditions, and the three changes of trains, in the case of passengers travelling from Kalgoorlie to Melbourne - at Port Augusta, Terowie, and Adelaide - will be abolished. Instead of making three changes, passengers will  need  to change only once, at Port Pirie. 
Clause 6 of the agreement provides for the payment by the Commonwealth to the State of the sum of £20,000 per annum for a period of twenty years. Provision is also made, in clause 7, that that payment shall not prejudice the State in relation to its claims before the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
An important part of the agreement is embodied in clause 8. It has reference to shortening the time of the journey and the comfort of the passengers  en route.  Clause 8 reads - 
The Commonwealth and the State agree that their respective Railways Commissioners will co-operate - 
to provide adequate services at reasonable times for the purpose of shortening as much as possible the period of transit of passengers by rail between Kalgoorlie and Serviceton; and 
to ensure that passengers  en route  to either of those places and travelling or booked to travel in sleeping carriages (and, as far us practicable, passengers travelling or booked to travel otherwise than in sleeping carriages) on the express train running between Adelaide and Melbourne shall not be obliged to change carriages elsewhere than at Port Pirie. 
At Port Pirie there will be a junction station which will be worked by agreement between the Commonwealth and the State. There will be a proper understanding between the Railways Commissioners, and there will be no difficulty, so far as the control at this station is concerned. 
Clause 11 of the agreement provides that the State will grant to the Commonwealth, free of charge, any Crown lands and any leased lands of the Crown in respect of which the Commonwealth has acquired the rights of the lessees. It also provides in sub-clause  b,  that the State will grant to the Commonwealth, free of charge, any stone, soil, gravel, or timber upon any Crown lands or leased lands of the Crown from which the State has a right to take such materials. 
The agreement provides that the Commonwealth shall commence to construct the Commonwealth railway within six months after all approvals required by the agreement have been given, and that the Sta te shall complete the State railway either by the time that the Commonwealth railway has been completed, or by the 30th day of June, 1937, whichever is the later. 
Actually, the surveys have been made, and everything is in readiness to begin  construction on the Commonwealth section. Unless something unforeseen occurs, the railway will be laid from Port Augusta to Port Pirie by the 30th June, 1937. 
It is proposed to lay the first 4 miles 20 chains from Port Augusta on the existing 3 ft. 6 in. gauge railway, making a third rail section over that portion of the line. It is intended to carry out that section by day labour. For the remaining section of the railway - 52 miles 14 chains - it is proposed to invite tenders within a few days of the passing of this bill. 
The estimated cost of the railway is £625,000, which includes the cost of the railway from Port Augusta to Port Pirie, as well as the Commonwealth's share of the junction station and transfer yards at Port Pirie. The sum of £625,000 also includes the cost of the rolling-stock required by the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner to operate the additional section of railway. On the loan estimates for the current financial year the sum of £150,000 is provided towards the cost of the work under the heading "Port Augusta-Red Hill Railway." 
The building of the railway will confer tremendous benefits in railway travel, it will shorten the distance by about 70 miles, and it will eliminate the unsatisfactory narrow gauge service between Terowie and Port Augusta. Moreover, it will enable the journey across the continent to be made very much faster and, as has already been stated, it is expected that the through journey will be accomplished in about one day less than under the present time-table. The disadvantages of the present route have been explained to the Senate previously. For many years the Commonwealth has been endeavouring to provide a direct railway connexion between Port Augusta and Adelaide. Pending the possible ultimate conversion of the gauges to the standard 4 ft. in., the provision of this railway and the connecting railway to be constructed by the State will greatly improve transAustralian railway transport, and will provide for the travelling public a service infinitely bettter than is possible under the present arrangements. 
I shall be brief. I am exceedingly pleased that this bill has come before the Senate, for I know that it will mean a great deal to those who have to travel over the trans-Australian route. The Opposition heartily supports the measure, which I am pleased to note contains a clause to safeguard the wages and working conditions of the men who will construct tho railway. 
As one who opposed a somewhat similar measure in April last, I may, perhaps, be permitted to congratulate the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  on the success which hasattended his long association with the plan to connect Western Australia with the eastern States by rail. At the sametime, I may say that the right honorable senator's name is likely to be remembered by future generations more in connexion with other things that he has done than for what he has achieved in connexion with this railway. 
I do not desire to re-open a matter which was threshed out in this chamber some months ago. I adhere to every opinion which I expressed onthat occasion, but at the same time I hopethat I may be wrong, and that this proposal may prove to be a great success. Perhaps I may be permitted to refer  tO'  one small personal matter which concernsthe Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  and myself. Among thematters that I raised when I spoke upon this subject previously was that of theestimate of the cost to South Australia of the construction of the railway from-. Port Pirie to Red Hill. My colleague,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, informed thechamber that the cost of the undertakingwould be about £100,000; but I ventured to assert that I thought that theexpense would be nearer £250,000. The subsequent negotiations carried om by the experts were on the basis of an expenditure for this purpose of from £325,000 to £350,000; that figure isnearly as much as my estimate and that of  Senator A.  J. McLachlan combined.. I hope that my colleague will admit that my private hazard at the cost wasat least as accurate as his statement,, which, I presume, was supported by a. knowledge of the official estimate. I repeat, I hope that the line will prove to be the success that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has predicted. 
I call to mind an old saying that a man who cannot take a licking cannot take anything. Ten years ago, when I was a member of the South Australian Parliament, I opposed the construction of this line, and I also expressed my opposition to the proposal when speaking on the budget papers this year. Now that- the line is to become an accomplished fact, however, I feel bound to state my pleasure that the South Australian and the Commonwealth Governments have reached an amicable understanding in regard to this matter,  and  I trust that the railway will prove the success that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has envisaged. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.54]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a bill to provide for the payment to the State of Tasmania of the  Sum  of £4,300 a month during the period of the continuance of the flour tax commencing from the 7th January, 1936, provision for which has been made in bills which have been already passed. The Wheat Growers Relief Act 1934-35 made provision for the payment to Tasmania of ' the sum of £4,100 a month during the currency of the present flour tax expiring on the 6th January, 1936. This amount proved to be insufficient, and Parliament has just passed an amending bill authorizing the payment of an additional amount not exceeding £4,500 to supplement the payments for the period ending on that date. As I have previously explained, the purpose of this special payment to Tasmania is partly to offset the flour tax collected in. respect of flour consumed in Tasmania. The reason for this is that as Tasmania produces very little wheat, the amount required to finance the relief to wheatgrowers in that State is comparatively small. As legislation has been enacted for the continuation of the flour tax after the 6th January, it is necessary to provide for the continuation of the grant to Tasmania. The amounts paid to Tasmania are utilized by that State for the purposes of making rebates under the terms of an act passed by the Tasmanian Parliament, in respect of flour tax paid by millers and others. In this bill, authority is sought for the payment of an amount estimated to be sufficient to enable the Tasmanian Government to continue making such rebates at the rate at present in operation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. * Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[5.0]. -  by leave  - Honorable senators will no doubt be interested to know the actual position in regard, to the State members of the League of Nations which are imposing sanctions in connexion with the Italo-Abyssinian dispute. 
According to the latest advice from the Secretary-General of the League, 49 State members have taken the necessary legislative and administrative measures in relation to Sanction I. - Prohibition of arms and munitions of war to Italy - while three others have accepted ths. proposal in principle; 48 countries have taken the necessary measures to implement Sanction II., relating to financial restrictions, while four others have accepted it in principle. In regard to Sanction III. - Prohibition of Italian imports - the figures are 44 and eight respectively; while for Sanction IV., prohibiting the export to Italy of metals and certain raw materials classed as munitions of war, the corresponding numbers are 44 and 8. These figures show that 52 countries have taken action or have accepted these sanctions in principle. This, honorable senators will agree, is a remarkable result. 
There has been certain criticism of the slow operation of the League machinery, and of certain hesitation and uncertainties. This was only to be expected. The strength of the League in the last resort depends on the strength of public opinion in the countries of the member States, and any hesitation shows at least, that this grave international problem is being seriously weighed by individual States, which are at last thinking of the League in terms ofa complete organization affecting them directly. 
Where there was a chance of pacific settlement, the League did everything possible in the way of conciliation. When action contrary to the principles of the League barred the door to conciliation, we saw a display of solidarity and determination to make a supreme effort to end the scourge of war - a display unique in the history of the world. 
At the moment, the technical subcommittees of the Co-ordination Committee are examining the reports, documents and legislation submitted by State members, to ensure that the action being taken is effective and co-ordinated. 
On the 12th December, the full committee will meet to consider whether the " oil sanction " will be adopted. This sanction is known as Proposal IV  a.,  and reads - 
In the execution of the mission entrusted to it under the last paragraph of Proposal IV., the Committee of Eighteen submits to Governments the following proposal: - 
It is expedient that the measures of embargo provided for in Proposal IV. should be extended to the following articles as soon as the conditions necessary to render this extension effective have been realized: - 
Petroleum and its derivatives, by-products, and residues. 
Pig-iron, iron and steel (including alloy steels), cast, forged, rolled, drawn, stamped or pressed. 
Coal (including anthracite and lignite), coke and their agglomerates, as well as fuels derived therefrom. 
If the replies received by the committee to the present proposal and the information at its disposal warrant it, the Committee of Eighteen will propose to governments a date for bringing into force these measures. 
The League has two main tasks: first, to avert war by the just and peaceful settlement of disputes; and, if this fails, secondly, to prevent its extension and stop it in the shortest possible time. The imposition of sanctions is designed to effect the second objective, and because the Commonwealth Government believed that the adoption of the oil, iron and steel sanction, prohibiting the export of what are rightly regarded as vital sinews of war, would be one of the most effective in shortening the war, it immediately accepted in principle the sanction, and notified the League on the 15th November that it would be prepared to put the proposal into operation immediately it was adopted. 
It has been made clear by the British Government, and also by the Commonwealth Government, that we are prepared to play our full part, in conjunction with others, but on the understanding that the liabilities and responsibilities must be shared by all. It is of no use to adopt a sanction unless it is likely to be unanimously accepted and strictly carried out by all State members. Hence honorable senators can appreciate that there must necessarily be negotiation and consultation to obtain unanimity before a sanction with grave and far-reaching effects can be adopted. That is particularly true of this sanction. Roumania, for example, supplies 50 per cent, of the total oil imports of Italy, and the operation of this sanction, unless some agreement could be reached that nonparticipating States would also restrict supplies, would only react most prejudicially against certain State members, without  accomplishing the purpose of the sanction. I do not yet know the attitude of States towards the proposal, or whether it will be adopted, but I have mentioned some of the obvious difficulties surrounding these sanctions in order that honorable senators may appreciate the position. 
Similar considerations have operated from the outset as regards military sanctions. The pre-requisite for the enforcement of any sanction must be collective agreement. This not only never existed in the case of military sanctions, but also was never contemplated from the beginning of the controversy. 
I emphasize that, in the deliberations at Geneva, there has been no discussion of military sanctions, and no such measures have formed part of British policy. 
The distinction between economic and military sanctions has been appreciated by Signor Mussolini, who in his national speech on the 2nd October stated - 
Against economic sanctions we shall set our discipline, our frugality and spirit of sacrifice. To military sanctions we shall reply with military measures. To acts of war we shall reply with acts of war. His acceptance of moral, financial and economic sanctions was in itself an admission of violation of international obligations. Though at first it was reported that Italy would regard the imposition of an oil embargo as a hostile act, there has been a modification of the early strong reaction, particularly in view of the recent forcible intimation conveyed by M. Laval that France was standing strongly behind the principles of the League, and intended to support and cooperate loyally with Great Britain. 
This raises a question now often asked : " What has been the effect of the sanctions so far ? " An embargo on credit, key commodities and munitions has, in the past, been found to be effective. Although the economic pressure may be of slow development, yet even with the present limited period of application, there are indications that the moral and material effects of the action are being felt. 
In this respect, I remind honorable senators that we do not desire to apply punishment to the Italian people in this dispute, or to any power that breaks the Covenant but that we do desire to play our part in co-operative efforts to ensure the observance of international law, on which ultimately every community must depend. As I said in my reply of the 22nd November to the Italian note of protest - 
The present unfortunate dispute was not one between Italy and any individual member of the League, but an issue between Italy and every State member of the League. As such, the Commonwealth Government is of the firm opinion that there is no cause for ill feeling between the Australian and Italian people, who have ever been actuated by deep feelings of mutual regard and esteem, and it would not care to contemplate that any resentment could persist between our peoples after the dispute has been settled. 
Another question which is uppermost in the minds of honorable senators is: What is the significance of all the press reports about overtures from Italy and negotiations for a settlement? Negotiations which are now taking place are in accord with the second objective of the League, namely, to shorten the war, and British policy is to continue to search for peace on a basis honorable to all parties. There is no question of going behind the back of the League in such matters. It is obvious that the three powers which can most directly and effectively achieve a settlement are Great Britain, France and Italy, but any proposals must be in accordance with League principles, " within the framework of the League," as it is termed, and acceptable to all parties concerned - Italy, Abyssinia, and the League. 
I can frankly state that the Commonwealth Government has no knowledge that any definite proposals have yet been formulated which will comply with the above condition, but if and when they are made they will be immediately placed before the League. That this is the view of the Commonwealth Government is shown by the following extract from my letter to the Italian Government previously referred to: - 
It is of the opinion that these representations should be made to the League, along with any views which the Italian Government holds as to the requisites for a just and speedy settlement of the dispute. 
In conclusion, I would say that His Majesty's Government in the Commonwealth of Australia earnestly hopes that means for such a settlement may soon be found acceptable to Italy, to Abyssinia, and in accordance with the spirit and principles of the League. This sentiment I feel is echoed by the whole of the Australian  people 
There are two other matters incidental to the main dispute about which I feel honorable senators would appreciate some information. The first is the reported tension in the Mediterranean, and the second is the position in Egypt. The first was largely due to a hostile press propaganda in Italy, and strong antiBritish attacks which went so far as to threaten Malta and Gibraltar. 
Before the present crisis, Italy maintained in Libya approximately 20,000 men, and despite the recent withdrawal of one division, the present strength is still over 50,000 as against numerically much weaker British forces in Egypt. Naturally, there has been a certain amount of apprehension as to the safety of vital lines of Imperial communications, but I can say that, with the subsidence of the press campaign and the moderate tone now adopted, following on friendly and satisfactory conversations between the British Ambassador and Signor Mussolini, the tension referred to has considerably lessened. 
As regards the disturbances in Egypt, the press reports have been much exaggerated. On the 7th November, Mohammed  Mahmoud,  the leader of the Wafd, the Nationalist party, which had passively co-operated with the Government in recent months, attacked the Government and the Prime Minister,  Tewfik Nessum,  both for continuing to govern without a constitution and for allowing undue British influence in Egyptian domestic affairs. It is true that Great Britain has " advised against the re-enactment of the Constitutions of 1923 and 1930, since the one was proved unworkable and the other universally unpopular ". For some time the Egyptian Government has acted without a constitution. The relations between the British and Egyptian Governments have been maintained, however, on a correct and harmonious basis. The present international dispute on the Egyptian frontier has brought home forcibly to the Egyptian people their reliance on Great Britain for defence and economic security. Consequently, there is a more general desire for friendly co-operation than has been evident for years. 
The speech of Mahmoud was followed by demonstrations on the 13th November in Cairo and  Tanta.  mainly by students on academic and political grounds. At both places the police had to fire once. About 115 policemen and demonstrators were injured. The situation is now well in hand, and no untoward incidents have since been reported. 
I do not propose to touch on the military situation in Abyssinia itself, as the operations are reasonably well reported, so far as the war censorship of the participants will allow, by reputable press correspondents, and the Government can add little of value to the press messages which have been published. 
In conclusion, I feel that honorable senators will agree that the League of Nations has, by its commendable and efficient handling of the present dispute, proved itself capable of carrying out one of the main objects for which it was formed. It has greatly enhanced its prestige as an instrument for the maintenance of peace and, where war actually breaks out, for the localization of hostilities. The League has given evidence of the deterrent effect of the unified cooperation of nations in the cause of peace, and we believe, will come through the present ordeal a greatly strengthened and more effective organization for the peaceful settlement of all international disputes. 
[5.28].- I move- 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I take this opportunity to wish you,  Mr. President,  the  Chairman  of Committees, fellow senators, and officers and members of the staff of the Senate a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. On behalf of the Government and on my own behalf I express appreciation of the courtesy which we have received from you,  Mr. President,  from the  Chairman  of Committees, the Leader of the Opposition, the Leader of the Country party, and honorable senators generally. All have acted considerately towards the Government and Ministers appreciate very, much the way in which we have been treated. The amount of business transacted this session is very creditable to the Senate. This session the Government made an endeavour to avoid tha't rush of small bills which is generally experienced towards the end of a session. On this occasion we had a number of small bills dealt with in the early part of the session, and it is not the fault of Ministers in the Senate that a greater number was not dealt with before the concluding days. However, the number of such bills this session has shown a decrease and honorable senators who, on other occasions, addressed homilies to the Government on this point, may take the flattering unction to their souls that they were responsible for this improvement. I thank the members of the  Hansard  staff who have, indeed, done remarkably good work, and also the officers of the Senate for the assiduity and courtesy with which they discharged their duties, and the assistance that they have  rendered  to Ministers. I specially mention here an officer who I and other Ministers realize has an extraordinary amount of work placed upon his shoulders, particularly towards the end of the session; I refer to the officer who acts as secretary to Ministers in the Senate. I do not know of any other officer who is called upon to cope with so great a volume of work under equally trying conditions. Repeatedly various honorable senators have expressed to me appreciation of the assistance he has given to them in the drafting of amendments. In conclusion, I trust that the holidays that are before us will be enjoyable and beneficial to all honorable senators. 
I appreciate the kind sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  and I join' with him heartily and sincerely in thanking you,  Mr. President,  for your kind forbearance towards members of the Opposition. I am aware that, at times, I have caused you a good deal of trouble; however, you seem, always, to preserve your fitness and good humour. I agree with every word that has been said by the Leader of the Senate, in appreciation of the services rendered by officers of this chamber and with his special reference to the officer who acts in a secretarial capacity to Ministers in the Senate. When the Leader of the Senate referred to the staff I wondered whether that term included all the people responsible for the convenience and comfort which honorable senators enjoy here. 
At times we are inclined to forget that behind the scenes and out of sight are quite a number of officers, including the refreshment room staff, the engineering staff, and the staff which keeps Canberra's gardens so beautiful. Of course, at times, we suffer certain inconveniences and some of us voice our complaints loudly, but on the whole we are well looked after and receive a good deal of assistance from all those who have work to do in and about this building. Talking to members of the Opposition a few moments ago the Leader of the Senate said that he felt proud of the fact that we supported the Government when it was right. I assure the honorable senator that the Opposition will always support the Government on those very rare occasions when we think it is right. I hope that the coming Christmas and New Year will bring happiness to all honorable senators. We shall probably find enjoyment in different ways, but I am sure than all of us feel relieved to be off the chain once more. Again, I endorse the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Senate. 
On behalf of members of the United Country party, I convey to you,  Mr. President,  and all honorable senators, Christmas and New Year greetings. Particularly I thank the Leader of the Senate for the courtesy and cooperation he has extended to me during the last few months. Similarly, I thank the Leader of the Opposition. Although he is my political opponent, I feel sure that, despite his thunderous denunciations from time to time, he has a very kindly heart/ 
I was very much perturbed this afternoon to hear that negotiations in the waterfront trouble have broken down and that the seamen's strike is to proceed. I ask the Postmaster-General  (.Senator A. J. McLachlan)  what steps are being taken to ensure the carriage of  His  Majesty's mails across Bass Strait and the maintenance of passenger services between the mainland and Tasmania. 

 Senator A. J. MCLACHLAN (South Australia. - Postmaster-General [5.36] . - The latest developments in the waterfront trouble are causing the Government considerable anxiety. For the last couple of days, I have been making inquiries into the matter raised by the honorable senator, and the Government has now arranged to maintain a daily service of all first-class mail matter between Tasmania and the mainland by aeroplane. This service will be costly, but it must be maintained. For the carriage of cargo, I am not responsible, but the Government, I am sure, will take all the necessary steps to protect Tasmania in this respect. At this juncture, I do not propose to disclose the steps which I am taking to ensure the carriage of second-class mail matter between the mainland and Tasmania, but this service is being maintained now and will be continued for the next few days. Whether we shall be able to handle all of it, I shall not know until to-morrow morning. The honorable senator can rest assured that no pains will be spared by the Government to maintain constant mail services with Tasmania. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch [5.39]. - I fervently reciprocate the expressions of good-will which have been uttered by the Leaders of the three parties in this chamber. Such sentiments are only proper when the relationship of honorable senators is regarded in its proper light. After all, we may have our jousts and combats, but when we look at our political differences squarely and truly, it is quite clear that indulgence in pranks of this kind cannot be regarded as the normal pastime of honorable senators. We do not want to be everlastingly opposing each other as if the adherents of one party could not conceive of anything good coming from the other. I believe, with Robert Louis Stevenson, that " Good always springs to mind ". Occasionally, more heat than light is engendered in debates; yet, the fight being over, there is no reason why members of all parties, as representatives of the people, should not come together to express feelings of goodwill towards each other. Notwithstanding an occasional show of irritation, generosity is usually extended from one honorable senator to another during debate. The free expression of honest opinion is the salt of public life, making it both wholesome and clean. There is no reason why there should not be a free expression of opinion according te one's lights, and those with fixed opinions which they believe to be right should always be tolerant of the views of their fellows. Even though the ultimate aim of all .parties be the same, the clash of conflicting opinions is always a prolific source of trouble. Notwithstanding this, we have reason to compliment ourselves that so much harmony prevails amongst us. We are citizens of a great and glorious country - a land that stands high above all others, with freedom as wide as the heavens - and as partners in this glorious heritage we have to be tolerant of each other and remember that the opinions held by others are as sincere as our own. I appreciate most highly the way in which the parliaments and councils of the nation control this country; they compare favorably with the parliamentary institutions in any part of the world. Notwithstanding the political battles and antagonisms of the moment we all appear to get on very well together, and do good work. 
In regard to the personal reference by  Senator Collings  to myself, my endeavour is at all times to remain serene in the midst of the conflict about me and to hold the scales evenly between all parties But I assure the honorable senator that sometimes when the lightning of his aggressive eloquence is playing about me, and I mark his eagle eye and sharp tongue I wonder what is going to happen next. However, I realize that when interjections rain upon him he thrives, and I comfort myself with the thought that however heated the debate may become he is not likely to suffer any personal inconvenience. 
I thank honorable senators most fervently for the feelings of goodwill which they have expressed towards me, and I sincerely trust that Ministers, honorable senators and officers will have a Happy Christmas and a Prosperous New Year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
At 5.45 p.m. the Senate adjourned till a date and hour to be fixed by the  President. 
