I have to inform honorable senators that on the 15th December last the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and I, on behalf of the Parliament of the Commonwealth, forwarded, through  His Excellency  the 
Governor-General, a message to His Majesty King George VI. in reference to His Majesty's accession to the Throne. A reply thereto has been received through His Excellency the Governor-General. 

 Message and reply read by the Clerk  as follows: - 
 by leave  - I move - 
That the following address of congratulation be presented to  His  Majesty the King: - 
To the King's Most Excellent Majesty: Most Gracious Sovereign : 
We, the members of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, with humble duty offer our respectful congratulations on the occasion of the Coronation of Your Majesty and Your Gracious Consort. 
Wo assure Your Majesty of our deep loyalty to the Throne and of our earnest hope that during Your Majesty's reign the British Commonwealth will continue to prosper and that the cause of peace and goodwill in the world will be greatly advanced and strengthened. 
We trust that Your Majesty and Her Majesty the Queen may long be spared to us and that Your Majesties' lives may be blessed with much personal happiness. 
Few words of mine are necessary to commend this motion to the Senate - if, indeed, any commendation at all be necessary. The historic ceremony of the crowning of Their Gracious Majesties stirred the peoples of the world, irrespective of colour, race or creed. We in Australia, in common with the peoples of the other dominions forming the British Commonwealth of Nations, had particular reason to rejoice because the King - the visible link uniting the various members of that Commonwealth - had been confirmed on  His  Throne. Loyal hearts throughout Australia - and their number is legion - were united in spirit with that vast concourse of people who were privileged to witness the pageant associated with the Coronation, and to express, within the hearing of Their Majesties, the sentiments of loyalty and goodwill which animated them. Delegations of goodwill travelled from the distant parts of the globe to be present at the sacred ceremony. This Parliament and the Government were represented on that occasion, but it is fitting that now, at the first opportunity, we, as members of the Parliament, should collectively address ourselves to our Gracious Sovereign, and express to  His  Majesty and Queen Elizabeth the sentiments of respectful congratulation and goodwill which were uppermost in our minds on that memorable day in May last. May  His  Majesty King George VI and  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth enjoy a long and happy reign ! 
I second the motion. Speaking on behalf of the Opposition, I declare that apart from any expression of personal loyalty, in which I am sure none of us will be lacking, Australia as a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations can feel happy in the fact that in the midst of falling dynasties in other parts of the world, the British form of government, with its limited monarchy and constitutional procedure, stands firm  as a rock. 
The Leader of the Senate referred particularly to the coronation ceremony. 1 submit, sir, that I cannot be accused rightly of anything approaching disloyalty when I say, on behalf of the Opposition, that we did not believe  it  essential, in order to demonstrate the loyalty of our people to the throne and person of their Majesties, that such huge expenditure should have been incurred, while in  the  Old Country itself there were so many persons to whom a grant of money at that particular time would have been very helpful indeed. The members of  the  Opposition associate themselves without reservation with the motion;  and  I feel that it is unnecessary for me to say anything further in support of it. 
.- The members of the United Country party in this chamber wish to be associated with the message of congratulation to their Majesties the King and Queen in connexion with their coronation. We sincerely trust that their reign will be blessed with peace and prosperity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 by leave  - I formally announce to the Senate that on the 10th March, 1937, the Honorable  Sir Henry  S. Gullett, K.C.M.G., tendered his resignation as a member of the Government. I should like to record ministers' deep appreciation of the valuable services rendered by  Sir Henry  Gullett during the time he was associated with the Government. I desire also to inform honorable senators of the following appointments made in connexion with the temporary absence abroad of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence, and the Treasurer :  - 
The Right Honorable E. C. G. Page, Minister for Commerce, to be Acting Prime Minister. 
The Right Honorable R. G. Menzies, K.C., Attorney-General and Minister for Industry, to be Acting Treasurer. 
The Honorable H. V.C. Thorby, Assistant Minister for Commerce, to be Acting Minister for Defence. 
The Honorable J. A. J. Hunter, Minister in charge of War Service Homes, and Assistant Minister, to assist in the administration of the Commerce Department. 
Will the PostmasterGeneral inform the Senate when the additional A class broadcasting station for South Australia will be ready for transmission purposes? 
A contract has been let for the technicalequipment of the station, but I cannot say when the new station will be ready for use. 
Will the Postmaster General make avail able copies of the correspondence,&amp;c, leading to the temporary housing of the broadcasting studios of station 6WF Perth on an A. class reserve in that city ? 

 Sitting suspended from 4.5  to 8 p.m. 
.  - I move - 
That the following Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General's Speech be agreed to: - 
We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to Our Most Gracious Sovereign and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
I appreciate the honour of being asked to submit this motion affirming our loyalty to  His  Majesty the King, and I feel sure that all honorable senators endorse the sentiments of loyalty and goodwill expressed in the GovernorGeneral's Speech in connexion with the very successful coronation of Their Majesties. 
Before considering the important problems referred to in the Speech, I propose to review briefly some of the events of recent years. I take this opportunity to congratulate the Lyons Government on its splendid record which is reflected in the amazing recovery of the Commonwealth since the dark depression year of 1931. I am confident that when the history of federation iswritten the story of that recovery will be one of its most inspiring pages. I do not, however, intend, at this stage, to weary honorable senators with a recital in detail of the achievements of the Lyons Government. It will be sufficient if I place on record some significant figures which should be a guide to all honorable senators in the consideration of our present problems. The budget introduced by the Scullin Government for the financial year ended on the 30th June, 1931, disclosed a deficit of nearly £11,000,000. Taxation then was high, and unemployment extremely severe. Contrast that record with the achievements of the Lyons Government which for the five years ended June, 1936, showed surpluses amounting to £10,000,000, despite the fact that £55,000,000 had been paid to the various States for road construction, unemployment relief, assistance to primary producers, mining, and forestry, and for health promotion, as well as special grants to Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania. During that period also, the Government remitted taxation amounting to the enormous total of £15,500,000 per annum ; it reduced the Commonwealth debt by £8,500,000, and converted over £200,000,000 of overseas debt at lower rates of interest, effecting a saving to the Commonwealth of over £4,000,000 a year. Furthermore, in the same period, unemployment dropped from 30 per cent, in June, 1932, lo 9.9 per cent, in March, 1935. 
The Government also restored social services and public salaries at a cost of over £3,750,000 annually, so that those who suffered in the depression also shared in the recovery. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has suggested that what I am saying is a bed-time story. Actually, I am merely stating established facts. 
Honorable senators will remember the issue upon which the election of 1931 was fought. The Leader of the Opposition will admit that the three leading planks of Labour's platform on that occasion were inflation, nationalization and repudiation. 
The present Prime Minister in his policy speech urged that by honest finance on sound principles, and by honouring our financial obligations, we should do more to improve the then difficult situation than by any of the expedients suggested by the Scullin Government. 
I support the principle of national insurance, and congratulate the Government on its decision to introduce legislation for the institution of such a system. It is of the utmost importance that an undertaking of such magnitude should be based on the soundest economic, financial, and national principles. Many people are accustomed to speak glibly about the advantages of a 40-hour working week which, I suggest, is associated with the subject of national insurance, and my advice is to leave the complicated matter of working hours to the Arbitration Court and independent industrial tribunals. How can this country indulge at this stage in the luxury of a 40-hour working week ? 
I am speaking for myself. The constitutional aspect of a 40-hour working week demands the most earnest consideration because of the division between the Commonwealth and the States of authority over industrial matters. We should study carefully its probable effect in increasing the cost of primary production. To me it seems ludicrous that this Parliament, which, during the last five years, has assisted primary producers to the amount of £21,000,000, and has provided a further £12,000,000 for the reduction of farmers' debts, should be expected to approve a proposal for a 40- hour working week. I need only remind honorable senators that in the dark days of the depression all sections of the people suffered when prices for primary products were so low. Therefore, I sincerely hope that the probable effect of a 40-hour working week on our primary industries will have full consideration. Nor can we afford to overlook its effect on interest payments on the national ' debt, and on invalid, old-age, and war pensioners, and other social services. It should be remembered that if the hours of labour are reduced the wage-earner will have less chance of receiving more real money, and from what I know, of the average working man his desire is not for more leisure but for more money. He cannot have it both ways - he cannot have shorter hours and more wages. The Government is taking a great interest in unemployed youth, nutrition, and the general health of the community ; it aims to raise living standards, and we should hear these ideals in mind when we are asked to legislate for a 40-hour week. Each industry should be considered on its merits. Already in certain industries where work is  labourious,  employees work only about 30 hours a week. In view of its .complexity I contend that the introduction of a 40-hour working week should not be determined by this Parliament, but by our arbitration courts. Both parties support the principle of arbitration in industrial matters, and in practice it has been highly successful. Let us not make this economic problem of working hours a political issue. 
I congratulate the Government on its decision to re-appoint the Interstate Commission. The function of that body will be to submit recommendations in connexion with the many disabilities imposed upon the smaller States under federation. As a representative of South Australia I resent much of the criticism that one. hears about the Senate, which is essentially a House to represent and to watch the interests of the States. One of the most pleasing impressions gained during my short association with honorable senators is the attitude towards the weaker States adopted by the representatives of Queensland, who happen to be respected Labour men,  Senator Hardy,  the Leader of the Country party in the Senate, and other honorable senators representing the more populous States. During the past five or six years they have always been most anxious to assist the Government to make money -available to assist the States in need. During this period over £13,000,000 has been granted in this way, and that 'amount could not have been provided but for the support given by the representatives of the larger States.  J.  congratulate the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  and also the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  upon the work they have done in (this direction during the past six years. If we study the figures it will be found that greater assistance has been given to the weaker States during that period than at any time since the inception of federation. It is now proposed to reconstitute the Interstate Commission, and I trust that the good work which has already been done will be continued by that body. The recommendations of the Interstate Commission should strengthen and improve the position of Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania, and also benefit the Commonwealth as a whole. 
I take this .opportunity to refer to the importance of Imperial conferences. I cannot understand the attitude adopted by some leaders in this country, and more particularly political Labour leaders, who complain of the expense incurred in sending delegates from Australia to London to attend the Coronation ceremonies and the sittings of the Imperial Conference, which has just concluded its work. There has been criticism in practically every State, and it is time that we reminded such critics of the great benefit which Australia has derived and the preferences granted in consequence of the decisions reached at such gatherings. I do not propose to go into details, but we have only to consider the concessions which Australia has derived under the sugar agreement recently adopted. At the sugar conference our representatives rendered valuable service. We can also recall the meat agreement, under which Australia derives considerable benefit, and generally the preferences granted by Great Britain to Australia. The cost of overseas delegations is infinitesimal when compared with the benefits which this country has gained from their services. It is interesting to recall that Great Britain purchases more than  one-half  of our export of primary products. I urge a continuance of the closest co-operation with Great Britain. 
In the matter of .defen.ce our very existence depends, .as it has for years, upon the supremacy of the British Fleet, To those critics who cannot appreciate the value of the crimson thread of kinship, I would say that on economic, grounds, for reasons .of national security, and in the interests of the wageearners whom they profess to represent, we cannot afford to prejudice the  splendid market we have in Great Britain for our goods. The benefits we derive from this connexion should be impressed upon short-sighted critics. 
The problem of national defence is probably more important than any other at the present time. I congratulate the Government upon the attitude it has adopted in providing for the defence of this country in the interests of ourselves and the British Empire generally. I was pleased to note the declaration in a speech delivered by the Prime Minister at the recent Imperial Conference that Australia appreciated the stand that Great Britain has taken in the interests of peace and of civilization, and that we in Australia support Britain in its endeavour to secure world peace. The following lines, published in 1918 in reference to the attitude which Great Britain had adopted in the interests of world peace and of civilization generally, are equally applicable to-day: - 
Mother of freedom, pledged to right 
From honours paths she would not stray; 
But sternly faithful used her might 
To lead mankind a nobler way. 
Looking at a troubled world to-day, 
Ave  must realize that it is only by a defence policy such as is being adopted throughout the British Empire to-day that we can help to maintain  international peace. As one of the dominions sharing the benefits which accrue from the preference afforded to  our products in the British market, Australia, in conjunction with Canada and the other dominions, should be willing to share the responsibilities that attach to membership of the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
 I am deeply honoured by being afforded the opportunity to second the motion so ably proposed by  Senator McLeay.  I do not claim that the Government has done all that I should have liked it to have done during its term of office, but I admit that it has a record of achievement of which any government might be justly proud. The period of financial and economic stress extending over five years is still fresh in the minds of honorable senators, but this Government has laid a solid foundation on which to build soundly in the future. 
One outstanding feature of our financial and economic recovery is reflected in the price of Australian stocks which six years ago were selling at as low as £56, but to-day are worth over £100. That improvement is due to the sane and sound administration of this Government during the last five years. Another pleasing feature is that in that period the percentage of unemployment has been reduced from 30 to a little over 9 per cent. This Government does not claim all the credit for the prosperity which we are now enjoying; the Governor-General's Speech gave credit to the people for the great sacrifices they had made iu assisting the rehabilitation of this young nation. Primary producers feel that greater assistance might have been given to them, but I recognize that the Government has not been unmindful of their needs, as is evidenced by the fact that during its term of office it has assisted them to the amount of  £19,000,000  by way of bounties. In addition, it has provided £12,000,000 to the various States for farmers' debt adjustment. It has also relieved unemployment and assisted mining and forestry to the amount of £3,840,000, and paid special attention to the needs of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania, by granting £13,090,000 to those States. It has also made remissions of taxation amounting to £15,000,000 annually. The customs duties have been reduced on over 1,400 items. There are some who contend that high tariffs are necessary in order to build up secondary industries, but it is interesting to note that while there were 21,600 factories established in Australia in 1931-32, up to last year the number had increased to 24,895, while the number of factory hands had increased by 156,000, and is still increasing. It is expected that by the end of the current financial year no fewer than 25,000 factories will have been established in Australia. 
During the last five years this Government has found it necessary to expend over £29,000,000 on defence, and that it is considered essential to expend an additional £10,000,000 annually for the next few years in an endeavour to assure national security and  peace. Why do we respect the policeman on point duty ? "We are influenced not by the size of the policeman's hand, but by the power which he has the authority to exercise. In the same way a well-equipped nation must be respected. 
As a comparatively young man, I am particularly interested in the profitable employment of the youth of the nation, because I have had the opportunity granted to me to make good, and I desire that every other youth shall have similar opportunity. No country which neglects its youth - its greatest asset - can prosper or succeed. The Government should have taken up this work five or six years ago, but on its decision to take action, even at this late hour,- I congratulate it. I am very pleased that it has decided to- allocate £200,000 for 1937-38 to the States towards a scheme which it has inaugurated in conjunction with the States, and I hope that this amount will be increased by an equivalent grant from the States. 1 sincerely hope that this will not be the final amount to be made available by the Commonwealth Government with the object of giving our youth vocational training in order to provide them with opportunities to make of themselves good and useful citizens; indeed,' I hope that that policy will be continued until every youth has been given at least a decent chance to learn a trade. 
In a visit to the mining areas of Western Australia, I found employed on the fields many young men who had had a university education, but who, because of the present apprenticeship system, could find no work other than mining. I believe that that system is totally wrong. Our apprenticeship laws should be amended to provide for a trial period of at least one year, whereby a youth may learn whether he is fitted for a particular trade, and if not, may terminate his apprenticeship and start in a more suitable vocation. 
It would give boys an opportunity to find those vocations most suitable to them. Under present conditions a lad is often tied down to an unsuitable job for as long a period as five years. I suggest that that is wrong. 
I congratulate the Government on its proposal to introduce a scheme of national insurance. Every Australian citizen must realize that some scheme of this nature must be adopted in a progressive country. I hope that the Government will make its scheme sufficiently comprehensive to cover pensions and health, as well as unemployment. This will be a gigantic undertaking; I appreciate the thorough manner in which the Government has investigated the matter before introducing its proposals, which, I hope, will lead to the establishment of a sound scheme. I believe that national insurance will confer one of the greatest boons possible on the people of this country. If the scheme is to cover pensions, contributions should not be expected from those at present receiving pensions; some years should be allowed to elapse with a contributory pensions scheme before disbursements are made. At present pensioners are very apprehensive in this regard, and 1 hope that the Government will clearly declare that their fears are unfounded. 
In respect of the proposal to reconstitute the Interstate Commission, I can express confidently the keen appreciation of every Western Australian, and I believe the appreciation of every citizen of South Australia and Tasmania. The people of Western Australia have felt that the scope of the activities of the States Grants Commission was not wide enough; we believe that by the reconstitution of the Interstate Commission the field of inquiry will be broadened sufficiently to enable that body to take fully into account the disabilities from which Western Australia suffers to-day. Some of these are due to federation and federal policy, others to the effect of- the Navigation Act, and others to the fact that the people of the State, although constituting only onesixteenth of the population of the Commonwealth, are called upon to develop onethird of the area of Australia. Western Australia has genuinely attempted to carry out a policy of decentralization, in pursuance of which it has opened up twelve ports, and has so zoned the agricultural areas as to ensure that each port will receive the production that geographically belongs to it. A considerable amount of money is required to make such a scheme effective, and I suggest that it is within the province of the Commonwealth Government to assist the Western Australian Government substantially in the establishment of wharves and jetties at those various ports. In time of war those ports will undoubtedly be very valuable to the nation; some of them could shelter the whole of the Australian fleet. It should be possible for the Commonwealth Government to allocate money towards the development of those ports. 
Possibly, the greatest problem which confronts us in the development of our young State is that of water supply. There is a shortage of water in practically every town that is not served by the goldfields water scheme. In company with  Senator Pearce,  I visited one of the oldest -towns in the State, Katanning, where I found the people reduced to the necessity to use water containing 460 grains of salt and other minerals to the gallon. The main water supply had become exhausted on the 16th December. I suggest that no community can be happy or successful, let alone enjoy the amenities of parks and gardens, without an efficient water supply. This Government has spent £2,000,000 in connexion with the River Murray scheme; for that I commend it. That scheme is one of the most valuable of its kind yet undertaken in the Commonwealth, but, as it is justified as a national work, so also would the establishment of essential water supplies in country districts be a justifiable enterprise on the part of the national Government. I hope that the Government will give every consideration to this problem, and where possible will assist the various States confronted with .difficulties of this nature. Australia is crying out for settlement, and, undoubtedly, large areas in Western Australia could be effectively settled were it not for the lack of water. 
Every honorable 'senator will appreciate the value of the wool-growing industry to this country, particularly during the depression. It is safe to say that this industry ha3 provided almost half of the funds to meet the interest on our overseas debt. In two of the States those engaged in this great industry are suffering severely from drought, which has caused the loss of up to 80 per cent, of their total flocks. Dealing with this matter, a Western Australian newspaper recently stated - 
The drought-ravaged pastoral lands of Western Australia oan never regain their former prosperity until the drought year losses of nearly 2,000,000 sheep are recouped. 
The re-establishment of stricken stations will be a gigantic task, and an enormous amount of money will be required for such work, but I believe that this Government could render substantial assistance in helping these unfortunate pastoralists to acquire small flocks with which to start again. It is not possible, of course, to replace the total number of sheep lost in Queensland and Western Australia during the last three or four years. The Government of Western Australia has already rendered considerable assistance to these settlers by cancelling land rents - dues which, in any case, could not have been collected. However, unless these men receive assistance they cannot possibly restock their properties. They have just been through four yeaTs of drought, and when honorable senators from Queensland present their case for distressed settlers in that State, as I hope they will do, I certainly shall strongly support them, and I hope their claims will receive generous support from honorable senators as a whole. 
The tobacco-growers also are badly in need of assistance. I am strongly opposed to any increase of the tariff duty on tobacco, because I do not believe that an increase of prices helps those producing the commodity. I suggest that we can help our tobacco-growers very substantially by adopting some long-term policy. I have in mind a scheme, extending over five years, whereby manufacturers of tobacco would be required to increase annually the proportion of local leaf used in manufacture by, perhaps, 5 per cent, in respect of pipe tobacco, and 1 per cent, in respect of cigarette tobacco. This provision would not raise prices, but would certainly increase the consumption of local leaf and ensure to the people engaged in this industry a certain measure of security for the future. To me it seems ridiculous that Australians should send overseas hundreds of thousands of pounds annually for the purchase of tobacco which can be produced locally. I am .fully aware that u long period of maturation is required, and that it will be necessary for some years to import a certain amount of leaf in order to give smokers a palatable tobacco. I suggest, however, that by S: 0WY increasing the percentage of locally-grown leaf in our manufactured tobacco, we would educate the Australian public to smoke far greater  quantities  of local leaf than are used to-day. That is one way in which wc can assist this indus try which, incidentally, offers enormous possibilities for closer settlement. If this industry is to prosper it must be given greater security than it has to-day, and, therefore, I hope that the Government will see its way to do something along the lines which I have suggested. 
I am pleased that the Commonwealth and State governments have been able to agree upon a plan for the control of aviation in Australia, particularly since that plan entails no sacrifice of State rights. If that can be done in respect of aviation, I suggest that it can be done: also in connexion with the marketing of Australian primary produce. There seems to be no reason why the various governments of Australia should not in conference formulate a scheme for the orderly marketing of such produce. It can be done, if they have the will to do it. I hope that in the near future an attempt to that end will be made, and that it will meet with as much success as has been achieved in the realm of aviation. 
In South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria, as well as in Western Australia, I have seen evidence of soil erosion, and I believe that this menace to agricultural and pastoral holdings exists also in Queensland. The problem is increasing in seriousness almost daily. History provides ample evidence that any country which neglects its surface soil, from which all life originates, is bringing about its own destruction; therefore I urge that steps be taken immediately to check this evil. Many great cities of the past now lie buried under millions of tons of sand. Soil erosion is already a serious problem in Australia, but, if tackled at once, it can be checked. We owe it to future generations to preserve soil which, because of our ruthless destruction of timber, and the overstocking of property, has been left unprotected and subject to drift. In the name of posterity, I urge the Government to co-operate with the State governments in an attempt to combat this evil. 
Before long the Commonwealth and State governments will have to consider an extension of the Federal Aid Roads Agreement for another term. I hope that the existing agreement will bc continued; but I maintain that as the Commonwealth Government bears the odium of collecting the petrol tax, it should have more say in the expenditure of the money collected. The manner in which the revenue so obtained is expended in the various States is not fair to the motorists who provide it. For instance, in Western Australia, no person may be employed on works financed under the Federal Aid Roads Agreement unless he first takes out a union ticket. That was not intended by the Commonwealth Government when it made the .money available to the State. In other fields also the Commonwealth Government collects taxes which are expended by the States. The day is fast approaching when the Commonwealth must either vacate some fields of taxation in favour of the States or, police the expenditure of the money raised, in the interests of the people from whom it is collected. When the Federal Aid Roads Agreement is under review, I hope that my suggestion will be considered. 
As I shall have further opportunities to deal with the other subjects referred to in His Excellency's Speech, I shall not refer to them now. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to 
Standing Order 38, I lay on the; tablo my warrant nominating the following seuator« to be a Committoc of Disputed Returns and Qualifications :  - Senators J. S. Collings, T. W. Crawford, W. G. Gibson, J. F. Guthrie, H. J. M. Payne, W. Plain, and O.'Uppill. 
I have received from His Excellency the GovernorGeneral a commission authorizing me to administer the oath, or affirmation, of allegiance, to members of the Senate. 
Commission read by the  Clerk. 
 by leave  - Serious volcanic disturbances took place at Rabaul, capital of the Mandated Territory of New Guinea, on the 29th May, 1937, and the following days. Vulcan Island, in Rabaul Harbour, erupted at 4 p.m. on Saturday, the 29th May, emitting dense volumes of smoke, and covering Rabaul with volcanic dust. Matupi, about 2 miles from Rabaul, also erupted on the 30th May. 
The population of Rabaul - European, Asiatic and native - was evacuated to Kokopo, about 20 miles away. Both volcanoes continued their activity until the morning of the 3rd June. Heavy deposits of pumice dust and mud fell on Rabaul, breaking countless trees and blocking streets, which became quagmires, whilst the harbour became impassable owing to a thick layer of floating pumice. Most of the buildings in Rabaul are intact and unharmed, but are covered thickly with volcanic dust. 
Both volcanoes arc now quiescent, and the harbour is clear and available for shipping. The cleaning of the town is progressing rapidly, and Government departments have returned to resume their ordinary activities. Some ofthe commercial activities have also been resumed in the town, and permission was given for the European residents and the Chinese community to take up residence in Rabaul again as from the 10th June. 
One European has been missing since Saturday, the 29th May, and search has failed to locate him. The deaths of natives definitely known at present number less than twenty. The Administrator has been asked whether his inquiries to date disclose any further deaths or that any number of natives has not been accounted for. I have learnt to-day that  Mr. Victor  Costner, the wireless operator of the American vessel  Golden Bear,  is also reported missing. He was last seen on the wharf at Rabaul on the day of the eruption. 
The first reports received from the territory of the eruption indicated that a serious situation had arisen at Rabaul, and that, in consequence of the evacuation of the population, an acute food shortage was imminent. H.M.A.S.  Moresby  was diverted from survey work in the Gulf of Carpentaria and instructed to proceed immediately to Rabaul, and the motor vessel  Malaita,  of the Burns, Philp line, which was then at Brisbane, was commissioned to proceed to Rabaul with all speed with medical stores, provisions and other necessaries. The women and children who wore resi dent at Rabaul at the time of the eruption were offered passages to Australia, and 75 of them left by the SS.  Montoro,  which is due in Sydney on the 19th June. 
The question of the retention of Rabaul as the capital of the Territory of New Guinea is receiving consideration. Inquiries have been made with a view to obtaining the services of a qualified scientist who could proceed to the area and examine and report upon the volcanic and seismic dangers to the inhabitants and the administrative and commercial activities. On the receipt of his report the advisableness of appointing a committee to examine the question of the suitability of Rabaul as the capital, and the possible selection of another location, will be considered. 
I lay on the table - 
Regime ofthe Straits - the Straits of the Dardanelles, the Sea of Marmora, and the Bosphorus - Copy of Convention signed at Montreux on the 20th July, 1936. 
Notice of His Majesty's ratification of the Convention in respect of the Commonwealth of Australia was deposited with the French Government on the 15th September. The Convention came into force on the 9th November. 
I lay on the table - 
International circulation of Films of an Edu- cational Character - Text of Convention drawn up at Geneva, 11th October, 1933, at conference held under the auspicesof the League of Nations. 
Accession in respect of the Commonwealth of Australia, including the territories of Papua and Norfolk Island, and the Mandated Territories of New Guinea and Nauru was registered with the League of Nations on the 23rd December, 1936, and came into force 90 days after that date. 
I lay on the table of the Senate the report of the Australian delegation to the 17th Assembly of the League of Nations which met at Geneva in September and October of last year, and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
Australia was represented at the Assembly by the Eight Honorable S. M. Bruce, C.H., M.C.; F. L. McDougall, Esq., C.M.G.;Raymond G. Watt, Esq.; and  Mrs. E.  A. Waterworth, O.B.E. It is interesting to note that 52 nations were represented at the Assembly, and that among the representatives were three Prime Ministers and 26 Foreign Ministers. So far as Australia is concerned, the most important discussions at the Assembly related to the reform of the League, nutrition, and trade barriers. 
The failure of collective security to prevent the conquest of Abyssinia had led to considerable criticism of the machinery of the League for the prevention of aggression. The British Foreign Minister ascribed the failure of the League in that dispute to the lack of more energetic action and effective League intervention in the early stages of the crisis.  Mr. Eden  suggested that machinery should be devised as soon as possible to improve the working of the Covenant. 
Various proposals were discussed at the Assembly for strengthening the provisions of the Covenant in regard to collective security, but some delegates, including those from Canada, held that formal amendment of the Covenant at that time was neither possible nor necessary. The New Zealand delegate insisted that sanctions would be ineffective in the future, as in the past, unless they were immediate and automatic. He said that the League had lapsed into futility as the result of the vacillation of governments, and not by reason of indecision on the part of the people. 
In his address to the Assembly,  Mr. Bruce,  acting on instructions from the Commonwealth Government, suggested that the conflict in Abys sinia had demonstrated conclusively that, a non-universal League, particularly one which did not include three of the greatest Powers of the world - the United States of America, Germany and Japan - could not prevent, or bring about the immediate cessation of, aggression by the overwhelming nature of financial, economic or military sanctions, and that, in the circumstances, for the League to have endeavoured to operate the Covenant in full might have been to increase the danger by spreading the area of the conflict instead of ending it.  Mr. Bruce  pointed out that whilst, its non-universality was the most obvious reason why the League had. not achieved all that was hoped of it, there had been other Causes, but to review them would serve little purpose at that stage. In his opinion,- the wisest course for final achievement was a full and honest recognition of the facts as they existed, and a determination to establish the greatest measure of co-operation possible in the circumstances. The Commonwealth Government,he said, did not propose any amendment of the Covenant, but merely suggested some changes of interpretation, although it would welcome the introduction of certain" amendments. 

 Mr. Bruce added that the Commonwealth Government unreservedly supported the views expressed by the British delegate as to the necessity formore effective intervention in the earlier stages of disputes by an improvement of the working of Article 11 of the Covenant. In this manner it would be possible for the League to intervene before disputant nations had gone so far that national prestige rendered any retirement extremely difficult. The Commonwealth Government favoured regional pacts and, as regards general obligations in respect of financial and economic sanctions,"  Mr. Bruce  stated that the Commonwealth Government considered that the existing practice, whereby economic and financial sanctions under Article 16 of the Covenant are not automatic but are applied only after a meeting of, and full consideration by, the members of the League, should be fully maintained. He considered that the strength and pressure of world public opinion would grow progressively until statesmen would be. compelled to act justly whenever world peace was endangered by the act of an aggressor, 
In regard to nutrition, a subject which had been raised by the Australian delegation at the previous assembly,  Mr. Bruce  declared that nutrition was the focal point of the movement to substitute a policy of production for one of restriction. He said that Australia continued to attach the utmost importance to the economic issue, believing that a solution of it would open the way to world peace and the removal of social unrest.  Mr. Bruce  urged that a special committee should be set up by the Council for the investigation of economic problems. He suggested that the first steps should be taken by the great powers, especially the creditor nations. He also advocated the rejection of the fearful negative policy which had emerged from the World Economic Conference in 1933, namely, that prosperity should be achieved by restricting instead of increasing production. This doctrine, he submitted, would ultimately drive impoverished millions to revolt. 
The Assembly adopted a resolution commending the Currency Agreement between Great Britain, France and the United States of America, and invited the co-operation of all States, whether members of" the League o'r not, in the direction indicated by  Mr. Bruce.  The Assembly urgently recommended States as an. essential condition of final success, to organize, without delay, determinate and continuous action to ensure the reduction of excessive obstacles to international trade and communications, and, in particular, to abolish the present system of quotas and exchange control. 
The Assembly requested the Council to appoint a committee to inquire into the question of equal commercial access for all nations to raw materials. A committee of experts was duly set up in January. It met. in March and, after a preliminary discussion, agreed that for any study of the accessibility of raw materials to be adequate it must, not he limited to consideration of. the raw materials for industry, hut must include also foodstuffs and fodder. Although many raw materials are admittedly derived from colonial and mandated territories, it had been pointed out that most raw materials are produced wholly, or to a great extent, in sovereign, countries. The committee, therefore, further agreed that raw materials ought to be taken into consideration, whatever their origin. 
Another matter of some importance dealt with by the Assembly was that of terrorism. It will be recalled that part of the settlement by the League of Nations of the dispute between Yugoslavia and Hungary in connexion with the assassination at Marseilles of King Alexander of Yugoslavia was the framing of two international conventions intended to secure co-operation' between governments against terrorism. Two draft conventions have now been drawn up, one for the prevention and repression of terrorism, and the other for the establishment of an international criminal court to try any person brought before it by a contracting party. These drafts will in the ordinary course come before either a later Assembly or a special conference for formal adoption and signature. The Commonwealth Government has already informed the League that it agrees in principle to the adoption of a convention for the repression of terrorism, but does not favour the proposed international, criminal court. 
The usual reports from the technical and other organizations of the League on the work carried out during the preceding year came before the Assembly. These indicate that in the field of social and humanitarian activities the League is carrying out all that could be expected of it in the circumstances. I commend the report for perusal by honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
.- I lay on the table* - 
International Labour Organization of the League of Nations - Twenty-first and 
Twenty-second (Maritime) Sessions, held at Geneva, October, 1936 -Reports of the Australian Delegates. 
Draft Conventions and Recommendations adopted at - 
Twenty-first (Maritime) Session, 6th to 24th October, 1936; and 
Twenty-second (Maritime) Session, 22nd to 24th October, 1936.  and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
The reports which I have tabled of the Australian delegates to the 21st and 22nd (Maritime) sessions of the International Labour Conference which were held at Geneva in October last, have appended to them the texts of the draft conventions and recommendations adopted. Representation at the International Labour Conference, as honorable senators are aware, consists of government and non-government delegates. The non-government delegates represent respectively the employers and the workers, and are chosen in agreement with the industrial organizations concerned. The Government delegate was  Mr. L.  F. East, I.S.O.; the employers' delegate,  Mr. C.  B. L. Filmer, D.S.C., and the workers' delegate,  Mr. J.  A. Tudehope. The Conference discusses matters on the agenda, and may by a twothirds majority, adopt international regulations in respect of social and industrial matters in the form of draft conventions, which are subsequently submitted to governments for consideration with a view to ratification and implementation. 
The second session in October was necessary to comply with certain constitutional requirements in connexion with the revision of an existing convention. 
The Conference was attended by the representatives of 83 States, of which 29 were maritime countries possessing in the aggregate 84 per cent, of the merchant shipping tonnage of the world. The United States of America and the Union of Soviet SocialistRepublics took part in the Conference for the first time. 
The Conference adopted draft conventions concerning - 
The eight-hour day principle under the three-watch system and providing for a systematic organization of work on board  ship ; 
The liability of the ship-owner in case of sickness, injury or death of seamen; 
Sickness insurance for seamen; 
Certificates of professional capacity for masters and officers; and 
Annual holidays with pay. 
In addition, the convention of  1920  concerning the minimum age for employment at sea was revised so as to raise the age from fourteen to fifteen years. Recommendations were adopted in regard to hours of work and manning, and seamen's welfare in port, whilst other resolutions called for the study generally of certain questions with a view to their being placed on the agenda of a future maritime session of the Conference. 
It is claimed that the draft conventions and recommendations adopted at these maritime sessions of the Conference, combined with those adopted at the earlier maritime sessions in  1920, 1926  and  1929,  now provide an international labour code for seamen in accordance with the spirit of the general regulations already accepted for workers as a whole. The Commonwealth Government has ratified all the earlier maritime conventions with the exception of one relating to the repatriation of seamen. The provisions of this particular convention  are  in practice being fully complied with by the Commonwealth. The law regarding the repatriation of seamen from places abroad, other than the United Kingdom, is contained in the British Merchant Shipping Act, and the United Kingdom has postponed ratification, pending ratification by at least six of the principal maritime powers, of which so far, only three have ratified the convention. 
The provisions of three of the new conventions, namely those relating to the manning of ships, the liability of the shipowner towards sick arid injured seamen, and the establishment of minimum requirements of professional capacity for masters and officers, are already covered by the Commonwealth Navigation Act, but some minor amendments will be necessary to bring Australian legislation strictly in conformity with the conventions in question. The matters of hours of work and holidays with pay are covered by various industrial awards  relative to officers and most, if not all, of the ratings employed on our coastal fleet. These provisions' are in many respects more liberal to seamen than are those of the new conventions. 
The conventions and recommendations adopted at the 21st and 22nd sessions of the Conference have been referred to the several State governments and are now under consideration by the Commonwealth departments concerned. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon  notice  - 
Does his department intend to proceed with thu installation nf a rural automatic telephone exchange ;it  Tatana  to serve the interests of West Tamar fruit-growers and others? 
Has thu automatic equipment originally intended for 'lutana been diverted to Waddamana  1 
If not, is lie in a position to state, if and when the 'lutana rural automatic exchange will lie an accomplished fact? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows : - 
Yes. 
No. 
The exchange equipment is on order and delivery is expected shortly. The installation w ill lie effected with the least possible delay. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Can the Postmaster-General give any information regarding the proposal to erect a regional wireless station in North-Western Queensland? 
It is not possible to give any undertaking at the present juncture concerning the erection of a regional broadcasting station to serve the area referred to. The national broadcasting system is being developed in accordance with a comprehensive scheme which contemplates a reliable radio service for all populous areas in the Commonwealth, but a plan of such magnitude can only be realized in stages. The current stage includes' the construction of stations in areas where improvement is badly needed, but later the region under notice will receive attention. Moreover, the department has established the short-wave broadcasting station SLR to provide the programmes of the national service to areas such as this, and reports received from these localities show that a useful service is 'being given. The department intends further to improve its short-wave facilities in the near future. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Why permission was refused by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to  Mr. C.  K. Badger of Perth to broadcast the second  of his series of talks entitled "  Michiavell  mid Modern Dictators"? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is  anything being done to improve the situation in North-west Queensland regarding the reported poor reception from 4RN " A " class wireless station? 
ls it a fact that the reception is so poor that listeners are obliged to fall buck on a -s B " class station, 4L§ Longreach? 
Can lie give any satisfactory reason as to why the "News Bulletin" from 4BN,  originally  put on the air at 7 a.m., was altered to (i.30 a.m.? 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
When it is intended to commence the erection of the second National Broadcasting Station promised for Perth ? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What is the effect of the recent referendum on the Wheat and Wheat Products Act 1935 ? 
If this act is invalid, what steps are being taken to secure to Australian wheatgrowers a home consumption price for wheat, in the event of its price falling in the open markets? 
The act is rendered inoperative. 
This matter is under consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is itafact that owing to an increase of duty on oregon logs, much high priced machinery is compelled to remain idle and employees usually engaged in sawing are out of employment? 
Is it a fact that the duty is giving Canadian sawnoregon an advantage of 2s. per 100 super, feet? 
If so, will the Government give the matter early consideration? 
If not, will an inquiry be madeinto the ma tter by the Tariff Board ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
. No. 
No. 3 and 4. In view of recent rises in c.i.f. prices of bothoregon logs and sawnoregon, departmental investigations were commenced last week with a view to ascertaining what price advantage  Oregon  logs have over imported sawnoregon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health,  upon notice - 
What is the present position regarding the work previously carried on at Townsville by the Division of Tropical Hygiene? 
What operations, if any, are now being carried out  in  this connexionby the Commonwealth Health Department or any other federal department? 
The Minister for Health has supplied the following answers :  - 
The work previously carried  on  at Townsville is being continued and has been extended. The laboratory at Townsville continues local investigations and the staff of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine at Sydney are carrying out general investigations into tropical medicine and visiting Northern Queensland for the purpose of reinforcing the investigations being locally made by the Townsville laboratory. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Government taken any step that will have for its effect the practical censoring of the moving pictures of the Duke of Windsor's wedding? 
If any action was taken or is contemplated what is the form of such action? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
No. 
The films will be dealt with by the Censorship Board in the same manner asany other imported films. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health,  upon notice - 
Whether it is correct, as alleged to be stated by  Dr. Nott,  ex-M.H.R., now of Canberra, "That 40 per cent, of the babies born during the regime of the Lyons-Page Government are suffering from malnutrition ", and if so, what action does the Government propose to take to remove such a state of affairs? 
The Minister for Health has supplied the following answer :  - 
The information desired by the honorable member is being obtained. 
I have to inform the Senate that I have received the following letters: - 
Very early in the speech delivered by the Governor-General yesterday, His Excellency referred to the portions of Australia which he had so far had an opportunity to visit, and to the fact that everywhere he was confronted with undoubted proof of the loyalty of the Australian people and a splendid spirit of confidence in the future of the Commonwealth. Although these imported gentry - these expensive gentlemen - have to be financed out of the taxation levied by the Parliament, I agree with the expenditure incurred until it exceeds the limits of decency. I do not refer to the more than adequate salary paid to the Governor-General, to the very fine perquisites he receives, or to the palace at Canberra, all of which are justified, but I do object to the fact that official residences are provided in other capital cities for these gentry. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - Order! To whom is the honorable senator referring? 
There is no need for mo to particularize. 
If the honorable senator is referring to the GovernorGeneral, he is distinctly out of order in using his name disrespectfully in debate. 
The honorable senator also referred to the remuneration of the Governor-General. 
The honorable senator must know that he is not entitled to reflect upon the Governor-General. 
I ask the honorable senator to withdraw the offensive remark. 
The honorable  Senator, referring  to  His Excellency,  sneeringly  used the term " imported gentry ". 
I ask the honorable senator to withdraw the offensive remark. 
There must be an unqualified withdrawal. 

 His Excellency also referred to the disaster which occurred at Rabaul. I congratulate everybody concerned on the way in which that misfortune has been handled, and I draw attention to the fact that once again in a time of emergency private enterprise was very promptly superseded by Government control; in this way the very difficult position at Rabaul was quickly ameliorated. 
Later in his Speech the GovernorGeneral made the following comment concerning the financial position: - 
The public credit in Australia has been maintained at a very high level with corresponding advantages to interest rates generally while the conversion of our overseas indebtedness to lower interest rates has been steadily carried on, as loans mature, with most satisfactory results. . Business generally is once more vigorous and expanding and the future may, therefore, be looked to with wolffounded optimism. 
In passing I draw attention to the fact that to-day Australia is paying more for its loan money than is being paid by most of the other countries which are using borrowed money for the development of their territories.  His  Excellency's Speech contains this further interesting statement : - 
Recorded unemployment which in 1932 had reached the previously unknown level of 30 per cent., has progressively fallen until to-day it stands at less than 10 per cent, a state of affairs which compares favourably with that existing before the depression. 
I say definitely that those figures are absolutely and totally unreliable; the claim that such a wonderful result has been achieved by this Government is neither true nor creditable to the authors of. it. The statement does say, of course, that they are " recorded " figures ; but 
I point out that the only recorded figures are the numbers of registered unionists who happen to be unemployed at a particular date. No notice is taken of the thousands of our young people who are leaving school and to whom at present no possibility of securing a job presents itself. The Government is entitled to take credit for achievements resulting from its own policy, but in this instance it is taking credit to itself undeservedly. The Governor-General's Speech continues - 
My Advisors desire to repeat that this recovery would not have been achieved as quickly as it has been without the patriotic cooperation of the people as a whole and -the patient endurance of those who were the greatest sufferers from the depression. 
In face of all that has occurred and is still occurring, I have never listened to worse piffle in a speech from the King's representative. That statement is untrue; every one knows that the suffering was forced on the people affected, and they were neither patriotic nor patient in enduring it. In dealing with this Speech I propose to impeach this Government; I do not intend to let .it get away with grandiloquent language designed to deceive the people and to enable it to shirk responsibility for all the evils that are occurring in this country. 
Paragraph 3 of the Speech informs us that the Prime Minister and two other Ministers have been participating in the important deliberations of the Imperial Conference, and I understand from intimations given to honorable senators yesterday, that the result of those deliberations will be placed before us later. In passing, I shall only say, ihat everybody in this country with a mentality developed beyond the infantile stage, knows perfectly well that the Imperial Conference has been a dud,, and that the time occupied in its deliberations has been totally valueless to Australia. That is the only conclusion we can draw, if the information that has percolated to .Australia through the syndicated press- in which, by the way, I have very little confidence - and the syndicated _ wireless, which is controlled by the syndicated press, can be taken as reliable. This information shows that the conference has been a complete and tragic dud. 
In paragraph- 14 of the Governor.General's Speech, the Government again takes great credit to itself for the fact that that magnanimous combination of captains of industry, the Shipping Confer^ once, has agreed very belatedly to make a reduction of freights to the amount of £500,000 annually, the benefit of which, we are told, will be reaped mainly by primary producers who are obliged to use this transport. I am not in a position to question the accuracy of this estimate. My pleasure in reading this announcement was qualified by this further passage in the Governor-General's Speech - 
With a view to reducing the costs to shipping, the Com mon wealth Government proposes to reduce light dues from Gd. to (id. per ton on all overseas shipping visiting Australian ports. The State governments have been asked to co-operate with a view to reductions in harbour charges. 
What a magnanimous gesture has been made by the shipping companies ! First the Government tells them that they are taking too much toll of the primary producers of this country, and they must cease doing so, but having made the companies see that they have been charging, excess freights to the extent of £500,000 annually, it says in effect, to them, "We do not want to soak you too hard, so we will give you a rebate of £65,000 annually in respect of light dues." On examining the relevant figures I find that from 1932 to 1935-36 the total revenue collected from light dues was £7S1,000, or an average of £195,250 annually, and a third of that figure, £65,000, the Government proposes to present to the shipping companies. These shipping magnates, numbers of whom were interested in the sabotaging of the Commonwealth Government line of steamers, should have been properly dealt with long ago. 
In paragraph 17  of the GovernorGeneral's Speech, it is intimated that an amendment of the Seamen's Compensation Act, designed to bring the provisions of that legislation into line with modern conditions, will be introduced. As I do not know what will be the exact  nature of the amending measure, I cannot criticize it, but I hope that steps will be taken to deal effectively with those gentry who control our shipping and who, as an Australian judge said recently, "have been sending coffin ships to sea." I hope that the Government will take notice of the representations made by members of the Opposition in this chamber to the effect that every vessel engaged on the Australian coast, and over which the Commonwealth has control, should be compelled to carry modern wireless apparatus in order to safeguard the lives of those on board. 
According to paragraph. 19 of the GovernorGeneral's Speech, the Government proposes to push ahead with the ratification of the Statute of "Westminster. Its action in this respect is very belated ; but better late than never. With this remark I conclude my references to the precious document presented to this chamber yesterday in the form of the GovernorGeneral's Speech. 
I asked earlier whether this Government shared the confidence in the future of Australia that was expressed by the Governor-General. I suggest that the Government's approach to national problems - it does occasionally awake from its legislative sleep-walking and discover something wrong somewhere - and the method by which it proceeds to handle such problems, provide evidence of its tragic failure to understand the basic causes of those problems. It merely interferes and tinkers with the festering sores on the body politic, and glosses over its incompetence with statements praising the patriotism and enduring patience of the people, but never attempts to root out the diseases. I regret that I am unable to congratulate either the genius who compiled the Governor-General's Speech or the honorable senators who were given the difficult task of submitting to this chamber the Address-in-Reply. All parties to this document have my sincere sympathy; they have done their best to make bricks without straw. 
This Government is not only bankrupt of legislative ideas, but, in this chamber at all events, is also suffering from mental pernicious anaemia, as is evidenced by its lack of supporters capable of adequately explaining even the feeble apology for constructive statemanship which has been submitted to us for consideration. 
During its waking moments it babbles about national insurance to the press - but never to Parliament. In a newspaper statement published on the 22nd September, of last year the Federal Treasurer "referred to inquiries now being made by British experts ". The GovernorGeneral's speech which was placed in our hands yesterday, also referred to " inquiries now being made by British experts ". Apparently we have to go to some other country which has made a tragic failure of social services, for experts to advise us in respect  of  national insurance, because, so the Government believes, no Australian is capable of giving sound advice with respect to this essentially Australian problem. The newspaper statement continued that the Treasurer " considers that the investigation will enable them to provide the Government with a comprehensive report". We have been at the report stage for the last 20 years. It is positively dishonest now for the Government to say "we are prepared after the elections to do something with regard to national insurance ". 
This Government sends nervous old women of both sexes shivering to bed for fear of the bogy of an invasion through the vulnerable north of Australia by hordes of Japanese or others. At the same time it has unpatriotically imported an alleged patrol boat, which in its first exploit and after much expensive repair work had been done to it, has to be re-discovered from the air and ingloriously towed back to its base by the enemy prize ship which it had so heroically captured! What a wonderful achievement ! 
This Government has discovered, through its experts, both imported and indigenous, what every good. Australian already knew, namely, that there are within the confines of this continent vast coal and shale deposits and immense indications of potential flow oil. Yet it has not exploited any of them. It proposes to hand over this business to private enterprise. It talks of " empire ", of "loyalty", of "patriotism" and " defence ". It scarifies the  Opposition  with baseless charges of disloyalty, but its only outstanding contribution so far, to the adequate defence of Australia, is to evolve plans for firmly establishing in this young democracy in the southern seas thieving, private-enterprise, profiteering armament manufacturers, that cancerous world scourge which has made Europe a seething cauldron of war, or inspired in the peoples there the paralysing fear of it. With all the opportunities available to it and with the full knowledge that manufacture of armaments by private firms is responsible for the apprehension that exists in the world to-day, this Government proposes to hand over the business to private enterprise. There would be le3s likelihood of war if there were not private manufacture of arms, and certainly there would bo  no prolonged war if there were not profit in the business of -armament making. 
This Government has also discovered that there are in Australia vast iron ore deposits and huge quantities of scrap iron, and its criminal contribution to Australia's defence problem, should a national crisis ever unfortunately arise, is to allow the export of both products from Australia. It has not the excuse that it did not know of what was being done, because in season and out of season, I have asked questions concerning proposals by foreign companies to exploit our iron ore deposits, and I have received all kinds of answers, tie purpose of which was to discredit my information. I was told first that the Government had no knowledge of such proposals, but later ministers admitted that a scheme had been formulated, but said that Brasserts Limited, the company concerned in the negotiations, was an. English concern and that English capital was behind the venture. On one occasion you,  Mr. President,  took me to task because I doubted the sincerity of the Government in respect of the answers given; but what I then said is now common knowledge. Practically every newspaper in the land is taking the Government to task for allowing the exportation of this valuable Australian raw material, and to-day we have the spectacle of a scientific representative of one nation actually supervising arrangements for the exportation of our fabulously rich iron ore deposits as fast as the ore can be taken out of the country. Honorable senators may be a little surprised at my earnestness upon this and other subjects which I have discussed from time to time; but I take the view that no good Australian with the capacity to think and a voice to express his thoughts can remain silent regarding the inactivity of this Government with respect to such matters. 
This Government knows that the nations of the world stands aghast at the fearful prospect of another world war ; yet it contemptuously sneers at those in this chamber, who, like myself, advocate an active policy of peace and goodwill at home and abroad, who. plead. for support of a universal language and demand legislation having world peace as its goal. 
I have no doubt that when the defence estimates come before us for consideration, we shall hear repeated some of the statements made by a representative of this Government during the Gwydir byelection. That gentleman, in a public address during the campaign, said, in so many words " Ladies and gentlemen : I shall not mention the Labour party's defence policy, because it is well known to everybody that it has not got one." But what of this Government's policy? Fiscally it assaults and insults certain foreign nations and then sends its political head, whom it hates but dare not destroy, to the Imperial Conference, there to jibber, in a masquerade of statesmanship, of a Pacific pact! It permits hordes of aliens to come into Australia, while hypocritically professing its loyalty to the Australian national policy of a White Australia. It " monkeys " with the generally accepted policy of Australian protection, so that every session sees more and more reduction of the protective nature of the tariff, each reduction resulting in some Australian being forced into the ranks of either the unemployed, or that unhappy army which must perforce accept the dole. It talks grandiloquently of its great love for the primary producer but annually treats him as a mendicant, using his often appalling economic misery as a means of securing votes at election time. That brings me back to the statement which I made at the commencement of my speech - the Government is incapable of distinguishing between cause and effect. It either does not know the basic causes of Australia's national problems, or it does know them. If it does know those causes, why is every attempt to solve those national problems concerned only with the effects, rather than the causes? 
By some of the things that it has done, the Government stands condemned. But I cannot- blame it nearly so much for its acts of commission as for its acts of omission. The things left out of the Governor-General's Speech speak much more eloquently than do those which are in it. I say, further, that some of the things which are in it are childish; they are things which no self-respecting Government would have submitted to the gaze of the electors of this nation. The Government ought to have been ashamed to include in the Speech the unemployment figures to which I have already referred and then to refer to the patriotic and patient way in which the Australian people endured the misery of the depression years. It ought also to have been ashamed to take to itself credit for all the improvements mentioned in the Speech. 

 Senator McLeay proceeded to inveigh, against nationalization. I commend to the honorable senator and to those who hold his views, a book entitled  Business in Government,  which may be obtained from the Parliamentary Library. It is most informative, although it contains only what public men ought already to know, namely, that because of the decadence of the capitalistic order of society, governments in every country of the world are forced to adopt to an increasing extent a policy of nationalization. Private competitive enterprise has proved a tragic failure, and, therefore, governments everywhere, irrespective of their political beliefs, are obliged to take over more and more control. In other words, they adopt nationalization, a term which  Senator McLeay  mentioned as though it should strike terror into the minds of his hearers. Having declaimed against inflation and nationalization, the honorable senator proceeded to deal with the term "repudiation". If the Government is relying upon a campaign in which " repudiation " is the key-word in order to win the next election, I sympathize with it. Its spokesmen last night did not improve a bad cause; they did not have even the capacity of members of the Ministry for making a good case out of a bad job. Only once in Australia has repudiation raised its head; and then a Labour Government scotched it at birth. 

 Senator McLeay then announced another wonderful discovery that he had made. Speaking as the one selected by the Government, from the galaxy of talent and beauty among its supporters, to act as its mouthpiece, he said: "We learned during the depression that, when the primary producers suffer, everybody suffers." The depression to which he referred began in 1929 or 1930 and continued for some years. Not until then did the honorable senator learn the great truth which he enunciated ! In this connexion there is one further truth that he must yet learn - although I doubt his capacity to appreciate it - that when the workers of this country - all those who wrest the national wealth from the soil of this country and create it into commodities and articles required by the people - suffer, every other section of the community suffers also. Even that section of the community which the honorable senator has singled out for his special attention suffers. When one stratum of society is in trouble every other stratum is affected, although in respect of the upper strata, the incidence is not so tragic as in the lower grades.  Senator McLeay  did not know that fundamental fact until 1929. I realize that he could not have learned it as- early as I did, for I am a much older man than he is; but now that he has acquired the knowledge, I hope that he will retain it for many years. With the . air of a Solomon, or a pundit, he went on to say that what the wageearner requires is not more leisure, but more money. What a discovery! 
And less gas. 
Senators McLeay and Marwick, in moving and seconding the Address-in-Reply last night, undertook an almost impossible task. I listened most carefully to  Senator Marwick,  and I hope that he will not misunderstand me when I say that the only pearl of wisdom he dropped was his reference to the tragedy of unemployed youths. 
On the 12th November, 1936, I asked a question in this chamber relating to the distribution of financial assistance to the pearl shell industry. The question and answer are reported on pages 1728-9 of  Hansard,  Volume 152. On receipt of the information I proceeded to make investigations, the result of which forces me to express the hope that in any further distributions of largesse which this Government finds itself able to make it will see that the money goes to those who deserve it, and not to those who are not in financial need. My investigations brought forth the following facts regarding some of the beneficiaries: - 
Farquhar's Proprietary Limited, £6911s. 6d. - The proprietors of this concern live on Thursday Island and are reputedly well-to-do. 
Wyben Pearling Company Limited, £32811s. 4d.- Originally Burns, Philp &amp; Company. Found their fleet of nearly twenty boats too cumbersome to be bandied in connexion with their merchandise and shipping agencies, and the Wyben Pearling Company was formed to take over the fleet. It is an offshoot of Burns, Philp and Company, and is understood to have paid handsome dividends, as high as 40 per cent, in one year. 
Bowden Pearling Company Limited, £269 2s.8d- Herbert Bowden, the original owner and now principal, left Thursday Island over 30 years ago to manage the affairs of Bowden Brothers and Company Limited, Sydney, in their large operations in Japan. Bowden has retired from business and is reputed to be a wealthy man. He has been a frequent traveller to Japan, Europe and America. 
Charles Sinclair, £70 8s. 6d.- This man was born in Torres Straits, his father having been one of the first white divers. He is the only pearler who is not financially strong.. Had the whole of the £1,500 distributed on Thursday Island been given to him it might have been justified. 
J. Hennessey, £106 18s. 5d.- This pearler has sold his fleet and is about to retire south. He stated he had received £200 without expecting anything. He was so pleased, evidently, that he exaggerated the amount. 
Morey and Company, £177 13s. 3d. -  Mr. Morey  retired to Brisbane about twenty years ago, and has carried on no business since. He has now a working partner. 
B. Carpenter and Sons Limited,. £91 9s. 2d.-  Sir Walter  and William are both well off and reside in Sydney. It is said the former gave £25,000 to Imperial funds to get the "  Sir ".  They, or William, received also some of the grant for boats at Port Darwin (£88 12s. 8d.). 
Austral Diving and Pearling Company Limited, £24 0s. 9d. - This is a new concern I can ascertain little about, but I understand Walter Carpenter has formed it. 
Cleveland and Vidgen Limited,. £186 15s. 6d. - Both these pearlers reside on Thursday Island, but can hardly be deserving of public charity. 
Wanetta Pearling Company Limited,. £131 17s. 7d. - This company was owned by the late Reg. Hockings, who also had a coco-nut plantation on Aru Island under the Dutch. His estate should have been valued at about £50,000. His two cousins now run the fleet and no doubt own it. They are both well-to-do. Reg. Hockings was a bachelor. 
Aboriginal Company Boats, £4311s. 2d. - These are under the Protector of Aboriginals. The natives own about 30 boats, but they are nearly all skin or swimming divers, who, apparently, were not considered worthy of much of the £1,500. 
In nearly all the cases the fleets were owned by one or two men who, on their retirement, formed companies to relieve their private accounts of any risks. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

I also had something to say regarding the magnanimity, alleged more than real, of the shipping companies, which are reducing freights to the amount of approximately £500,000 per annum. I showed quite conclusively that these reductions are not what they appear to be. Since speaking on the subject I have perused a report in a Brisbane newspaper, which supports this Government, and which prompts me to ask the Government if it is prepared to institute inquiries before extolling further the virtues of certain shipping companies which are alleged to have reduced freights. I should like it to inquire into what ha3 been done regarding the claim of the shipping companies for greatly increased freights for the carriage overseas of zinc concentrates from the Mount Isa Mine. If the Minister studies the report he will find that there is a good deal more in this subject than appears on the surface. 
On previous occasions I have referred to the long periods during which this Parliament is in recess. The last recess extended for about six months, -and, naturally, I, in common with other representatives of the people, strongly object to the closing of Parliament in this way. We are not permitted to carry out the work we are paid to perform. In December last the Prime Minister promised quite definitely that Parliament would reassemble before the Australian delegation left for the coronation and the Imperial Conference. We were told that we. would have an opportunity to discuss the policy to be supported by the Australian delegates at the Imperial Conference which has just concluded its sittings; but no such opportunity was afforded. 
I do not intend to elaborate what I said "this morning concerning the syndicated press, except to say that the press of Australia is doing a great dis-service to those who undertake the national work in this country by continually belittling this and other Parliaments. You, sir, have, on more than one occasion, very eloquently directed attention to the serious state of affairs which exists. Whatever may be the opinion concerning the value of the services of individual public men, it is a national dis-service on the part of the pres3 to be continually belittling the efforts and credit of men in public life. The Australian press never misses an opportunity to ridicule this Parliament, and particularly this chamber. You, sir, have pointed out that the time which the Senate sits is not the important factor; what counts i3 the value of the work which it performs. The problems confronting Federal and State parliaments are now so involved and intricate that members are entitled to more consideration than they receive from the press of this country. I  believe  that the time is approaching when governments will have to take some measure of control over the press in order ihat politicians may be given "a fair spin " and also to ensure that the information which Australia is allowed to receive regarding happenings overseas may be more complete, instead of in the ridiculous and restricted form in which it is supplied at present. 
I repeat what I have said on previous occasions concerning the control of wireless broadcasting. I am wondering how long the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan),  who is closely associated with the Australian Broadcasting Commission, will allow the present state of affairs to continue. For some time I have been asking for a B class broadcasting licence for the Trades Hall in Brisbane, but have always been told in a perfectly courteous way that, according to the experts, a suitable wave length is not available. I do not pose as an expert, but I know that powerful A and B class stations are being erected in different parts of Australia, and I should like to know why a station cannot be made available to the Labour party in Queensland. Why should there he this monopoly of the air? The Australian newspapers are privately controlled, and, consequently, Labour cannot expect any consideration from them, but there is no reason why one political party should be excluded from the air. 
Of course, the Address-in-Reply will be carried by an overwhelming majority in  this chamber, and conveyed to.  His Excellency  with a great show of pleasure. But the Speech itself does not mean anything at all. I have dealt with some portions of it and also with points raised by the mover and seconder of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. I have also endeavoured to reply to some of the disorderly interjections of honorable senators opposite, who take such an unholy delight in entering the arena when I am speaking. A few days ago I read a facetious comment to the effect that politicians possess two hats - one to throw into the ring and another through which to talk. I realized this morning how fully the hats through which some talk were being used. 
I now direct attention to the encroachment being made upon the accommodation provided in this building for the use of members of Parliament. This building is supposed to be a temporary structure, but a long time will elapsebefore a permanent Parliament House is erected. Unfortunately, through the trespass of Government departments, Parliament House is becoming merely a huge secretariat. In the interests of Australia, and of all concerned, the Parliament should take cognizance of the situation and reserve the accommodation provided in this building for the work of Parliament and those associated with it. The Prime Minister's Department alone has established a hive of industry in this building, and many of its officers conduct a good deal of their work here. Accommodation should be provided for them by the construction of the necessary administrative buildings. 
In moving around this Capital City I have noticed, with pleasure, the development which has taken place during the recess. Whatever government is in power, Canberra should be developed as rapidly as circumstances permit. I do not know whether honorable senators are aware of the building activity and general trade expansion that is taking place in Queanbeyan, only eight miles away. Hotels are being extended, new shops are being erected, and additional housing accommodation is being provided. That development should be in Canberra instead of in Queanbeyan, which is deriving most of the benefit from the wages paid to artisans in Canberra. In addition to building houses in Canberra for public servants, the Government should be erecting house for a resident artisan population. Many men who are employed in Canberra are compelled to live in Queanbeyan owing to the inability to obtain housing accommodation here. Additional Commonwealth departments should be established in Canberra at the earliest possible moment. The Government has failed in not having evolved a scheme of cheaper housing for the building artisans and others working for wages in this 
Federal territory. It is not making sufficiently rapid provision for the housing of even those officers who are employed in the departments already transferred to Canberra. Thus it is doing two evil things at once; not only is it enabling a neighbouring town to reap the advantage of such development as has been carried out, but it is also establishing, on the part of public servants, an ever-increasing vested interest in Melbourne and making the task of bringing them to Canberra more difficult. One of the first things which the Government should do in developing this city is, not to embark on new buildings such as one which has been recently forecast in the press, but to extend the housing accommodation so that the transfer of government departments may be completed without delay and the artisans and others who earn their living in Canberra may reside here and by their expenditure help to build up this city. We shall never have cheap building in Canberra until we have a resident artisan population. To continue the present neglect is to fail not only to develop this wonderful capital as we hope to see it developed, but also to do justice to lessees in the Territory, to public servants who cannot get accommodation except at hotels, and to other employees who ought to be here but whom the Government dares not invite to come here because it cannot house them. As this Government has the necessary funds for this work - it says it has another surplus - there is no reason why it should not allocate all the money necessary for putting men into re-productive employment in Canberra and thereby increasing the great asset we possess in this wonderful capital. 
I sincerely hope that the matters which I have raised will not be passed by merely as points mentioned in a speech in this chamber and recorded in  Hansard,  or placed in departmental archives never to be referred to again. Even if my suggestions be not acted upon, it would be to the advantage of the Government and. the Commonwealth as a whole if they were given some attention, and not treated as being unworthy of consideration merely because they emanate from a small Opposition, or regarded only as excuses for ribald wit on the part of honorable senators supporting the Government, who apparently are themselves unable to advance any worthwhile proposals. 
[2.34]. - I congratulate the mover and seconder of the Address-in- Reply on their businesslike and pithy speeches. Their remarks had the merits of being brief and to the point and of dealing strictly with the subjects under consideration. But how can I describe the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  ? Not having at my command the honorable senator's wealth of language I am obliged to fall back on borrowed phrases, and I recall a verse from Goldsmith which may be very appropriately applied to the oration to which we have just listened - 
While words of learned length and thundering sound 
Amazed the gazing rustics ranged around, 
And still they gazed and still the wonder grew 
That one small head could carry all he knew. 

 Senator Collings seems to be worried because unemployment is decreasing ; that fact seems to rob him of one of his favorite texts upon which he expounds the gospel of labour. To-day he has no alternative but to question the figures; he really doubts, he says, whether the figures, which are given on the authority of the Commonwealth Statistician, supply a true picture of the employment situation in Australia. 
I propose to deal with that point. I have here the latest bulletin issued by the Commonwealth Statistician, which was made available to the press on the 17th April last. That bulletin deals with the very point which  Senator Collings  has raised in respect of the figures certified by the trade unions. Incidentally, I assume that  Senator Collings  does not question the genuineness of those figures.. The unions certify them as being correct, and we must assume that, being stalwarts of the Labour party, they would not publish false data. The question arises as to whether these figures can be taken as a reliable guide to the volume of unemployment. There are three ways in which this point can be examined. One is to compare the census figures with the unemployment statistics based on the trade union returns at the time the census was taken. These will be found to tally within a point or two, showing that the unemployment figures at the time the census was taken truly reflected the employment situation. But there are other means of checking the accuracy of these figures, and, in this respect, I invite  Senator Collings  to look at the following very interesting statement contained in the Statistician's bulletin: - 
Working from the basis of the census of the 30th June, 1933, and from compilations made from returns of employers in remitting wages tax and returns collected from Government Departments, the Government Statistician of New South Wales has prepared an index of employment and unemployment covering all persons dependent on employment in New South Wales. 
Honorable senators will notice that this statement deals with all persons dependent on employment. Of course,  Senator Collings  will probably say that the Government of New South Wales is not a Labour Government and for that reason its figures are open to doubt. In this respect, I am reminded of an occasion when a well-known political figure in New South Wales challenged the figures published in Coghlan's  Year Booh.  When figures from that authority were placed before him he asked where the book was printed and, on being told that it had been published by the Government Printer, he replied, in effect: " There you are ; that is a Government publication; you cannot rely upon those figures ". However, I shall now refer to an authority whom  Senator Collings  will not question. In his bulletin the Commonwealth Statistician says: - 
The Director of the Bureau of Industry in Queensland publishes an index of employment mid unemployment among men wage and salary earners. The data for this index are derived from information relating to unemployment insurance contributions and other sources. The results are given below. 
I do not propose to give these figures in detail, but I shall refer to a relevant section of them. It is shown on the authority which I have quoted that in March, 1937, under the heading " Excluding as employed the full-time equivalent of part-time men engaged on relief work " the percentage of unemployment in NewSouth Wales was 8.1 per cent. That is leaving out those who are employed on part-time employment; if those are included the figure is 6.S per cent. In respect of Queensland, under the heading " Employment and unemployment among men wage and salary earners (in terms of full-time employment and unemployment, excluding normal seasonal variations)" the figure for March is 8.6 per cent. Now we turn to the figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician to see how they compare with the Queensland and New South Wales figures, the Commonwealth figures being based, of course, on trade union returns. For the March quarter of 1937 we find that the New South Wales figure for unemployment is 11.8 per cent. Thus, if the  Commonwealth  Statistician's figures err at all, they err in the direction of exaggerating the volume of unemployment, because the figures taken from all sources by the New -South Wales Statistician is S.l per cent. The Queensland figure for the March quarter of 1937, compiled from trade union returns, is 7.7 per cent., as compared with 8.6 per cent., the figure compiled from all sources by the Queensland Government. If  Senator Collings  will study the publications which are issued from time to time he will find that he is on very unsound ground when he challenges the statement of unemployment as revealed in the report of the Commonwealth Statistician. 
The honorable senator is unfortunate also in another respect. Despite his tale of woe and his attempt to paint a picture of widespread destitution and misery in this country, he will find that some of his own friends have been saying just the opposite. At the present time the trade unions are applying to the Federal Arbitration Court for an increase of the basic wage. What have the leaders of Labour in that sphere to say about the prosperity of this country? They have placed their arguments before that court, and from press reports it appears that the basis of their claim for an increase of the basic wage is that Australia is now fully restored to prosperity. I suggest to  Senator Collings  that he had better have a few words with some of the gentlemen in the army behind him, and tell them that when he is going to tell a tale of poverty and depression in this chamber, they should not give him the lie direct by their claims before the Arbitration Court. 
The honorable senator described the Imperial Conference as a dud. Only about three months ago, together with the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives and other leaders in the Labour party, he was denouncing the Imperial Conference, by drawing a terrible picture of Australia being drawn into the spider's web, and being committed to all sorts of imperialistic policies behind the back of Parliament. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Perhaps not in those words. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable senator was among those who tried to create the impression that real danger lurked in the mission undertaken by the Australian Ministers now visiting London. Was not that one of the reasons which they advanced in support of their contention that Parliament should be called together before the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  and his colleagues departed on that mission, so that Parliament might be told what they intended to do at the Imperial Conference? To-day, when the imperialistic tricks that Labour critics predicted have not taken place, and schemes to drag Australia at the tail of the United Kingdom have not eventuated, the honorable senator and his colleagues say that the Imperial Conference has proved a dud. Considered as a point for the coming election the conference certainly has proved a " dud " for  Senator Collings  and his party, because the things which he said were going to happen have not happened. The honorable senator also remarked that the. Governor-General's Speech was so much window-dressing, but he had to admit that, as dressed, the window looked rather attractive. Consequently, he appeared to be somewhat perturbed. He told us that he had no objection to a little window-dressing for election purposes, but apparently his concern now is that the results are so good. 
The honorable gentleman to-day had the opportunity of a lifetime to point out to the electors which of the goods in the Government's shop-windows were in his view, spurious or defective. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Oh no. The Leader of the Opposition had very little to say about the quality of the goods so displayed. As a matter of fact he scarcely referred to a single item in the shop-window, his remarks being directed mostly to the goods that were not shown in it. And that, I repeat, is his present trouble. That is why he objects to this window-dressing.  His  one concern now is that it i3 altogether too attractive for his liking; he fears that it will appeal to the electors. 
I come now to the subject of national insurance.  Senator Collings  this morning raised objections to the employment of two experts from the United Kingdom to advise the Government on thi3 important subject. Since national insurance is an issue of great magnitude, affecting all sections of the community, every precaution should be taken to see that any scheme we may propose is based on sound principles. We have not hitherto had experience of such a system in Australia. There has been unemployment insurance in Queensland for some years, but no system of national insurance. The United Kingdom, on the other hand, has operated some forms of national insurance for over 20 years. In the circumstances was it unwise on the part of the Ministry to seek the advice of two men who had actually been administering the British scheme and had a practical knowledge of its working? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is so, and knowing its advantages and disadvantages, they were in a position to advise this Government with reference to the inauguration of a similar scheme in this country. What did these two men do when they came to Australia ? They immediately visited every state which is operating measures of social policy, in order to inform their minds of what is being done in Australia. Surely 

 Senator Collings will admit that before any well thought-out scheme can be introduced, those who recommend the form which it should take must know all about the operations of social legislation in the various States, in order to avoid waste of money and duplication of services. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.There has been no similar prior investigation of this particular phase of social legislation. I am aware, of course, that  Senator Collings  has been so busy preparing his speech on the Address-in-Reply that he has not yet had time to read the report presented to the Government by  Mr. Ince,  one of the British experts to whom reference has been made ; but I am sure that when he does read it he will find that  Mr. Ince  has given careful consideration to all that has been done by the various States up to date.  His  report indicates to what extent State social legislation at present in operation will be rendered unnecessary in the event of the institution of a Commonwealth scheme. I am astonished that any one who wishes to see such a system inaugurated should object to the introduction of experts to assist us in formulating an effective scheme. 
As regards the 40-hour working week,  Senator Collings'  desire seems to be that this matter should be dealt with, not by the Arbitration Court, but by legislation. If he holds this view so strongly, why does not the honorable gentleman appeal to  Mr. Forgan  Smith, the Premier of Queensland, to enact State legislation along these lines? There is nothing - not even an Upper House - to prevent  Mr. Forgan  Smith from introducing legislation enacting immediately a 40-hour working week in Queensland. 
I assure the honorable gentleman that I do not. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.As my colleague has reminded me, this 
Parliament has not complete powers to legislate on this subject. 
The Leader of the Opposition also went on to say that the Governor-General's Speech was, in many respects, a bed-time story.Well, I have listened to many bed-time stories over the air, and I confess that I have found some of them quite interesting. I cannot say the same of the speech delivered by  Senator Collings.  To me, his remarks rather resembled a horrible nightmare. The honorable gentleman did refer to some matters mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech, but I regret to state that his interpretation of them was quite incorrect. He kept referring to the policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister at the last election, and asked what the Government had done since then. For example, he told the Senate that nothing whatever had been done about the standardization of railway gauges. I am afraid the honorable gentleman has been asleep. Has he never heard of the construction of the Red Hill to Port Augusta railway on the standard gauge? This work was carried out in accordance with the recommendation of the commission which inquired into the standardization of gauges. 
It will be completed shortly. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.At any rate, it is something, and  Senator Collings  said that nothing had been done. 
The Leader of the Opposition also criticized the Government's proposals to promote the extraction of oil from shale.  His  opinion seemed to be that, instead of coming to an agreement with  Mr. Davis,  who submitted a scheme to develop the Capertee deposits, it should undertake the work as a State enterprise. I remind honorable gentlemen that at various times many State enterprises have been undertaken in Australia, and some are still in operation. One is the State coal mine at Wonthaggi in Victoria. That venture, I understand, involves the State Government in heavy financial loss annually, and for the last twelve months its history has been one of almost continuous industrial disturbance. That, I suggest, is not very encouraging to the Government. I suppose .that  Senator Collings  would like us to know that the State coal mine in Queensland is being operated at a profit. It is true that it shows a profit, but this is earned by compelling the Queensland Railways Commissioners to buy the coal at a cost above its economic value. 

 Senator Collings had a good deal to say about the projected export of iron ore from Yampi Sound in Western Australia. That subject, also, does not appear in the Governor-General's Speech. Concerning it, all I have need to say is that the granting of mining leases is a matter within the sole jurisdiction of the State Government; in this instance the Commonwealth Government is concerned only with the export of the iron ore and the admission of people to be engaged in connexion with its purchase. Honorable senators are aware that H. A. Brasserts and Company Limited formed an Australian operating company to work the iron deposits at Yampi Sound on the understanding that the Nippon Mining Company would take the whole of the output. The scheme provides for the sale of the ore at the company's works at Koolan Island and not on delivery in Japan, so that it is necessary for a limited number of Japanese experts to remain on the island to satisfy themselves as to the proper grading and analysis of the ore, thereby eliminating difficulties and possibilities of disagreement. These experts, to be four in number, will not be engaged in development work of any kind, and the position in regard to them is to be reviewed at the end of twelve months with a view to determining whether the work of grading and inspection can be satisfactorily carried out by Australians. There is also to be one interpreter. The entry of these Japanese experts and interpreter for this purpose is on all fours with the admission into Australia of representatives of other countries for the purposes of inspecting, evaluating, and purchasing the wool clip. It is estimated that eventually 500 or 600 Australians will be employed in this enterprise. 

 Senator Collings will see from this that the granting of the lease is a matter entirely for the Labour Government of Western Australia. It is no concern of the Commonwealth Government. The Leader of the Opposition suggested, but did not -say so straight out, that we ought to prevent the export of this iron ore to Japan. If that is his view, I ask him does he propose to stop there ? What has he to say about the export of ore produced from Mount Isa? Will the honorable senator urge that that should not be exported? Surely, if it would be right to prevent the export of iron ore from Yampi. Sound, it would be equally right to prevent the export of ore from Mount Isa. But if we did this, what would happen? I understand that if we prevented the export of ore from Mount Isa we should render unemployed about 10,000 men who are directly or indirectly connected with that enterprise. 
I am afraid that  Senator Colling's  knowledge of even the political history of Australia is somewhat shaky. He appears to be under the impression that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act was placed on the statutebook by the Labour party. I happened to be a member of the Labour party when that measure was passed by this Parliament. I know all the circumstances that led up to its introduction and adoption. I was a member, as you were,  Mr. President,  of the Labour party in Western Australia when the Arbitration Act was passed by the State Parliament, so it may not he out of place to remind  Senator Collings  that the Labour party cannot claim the credit for that legislation. The Commonwealth act was introduced by the late,Mr. C. C. Kingston, a well-known Liberal in his day. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Mr. B. R. Wise, another Liberal, introduced an arbitration bill into the New South Wales Parliament and succeeded in getting it passed, and  Sir John  Forrest introduced the Western Australian measure. Therefore, it is not true to say that we owe all our arbitration laws to the advent of the Labour party in the Commonwealth or State spheres, and it would be well if  Senator Collings  were sure of his ground before he indulges in criticism regarding the initiation of social legislation. 
Another point raised by the Leader of the Opposition, but one not mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech, was the distribution of the grant to those engaged in the pearling industry at Thursday Island. Honorable senators are well aware that the grant was made because the pearl shell industry generally was then in a distressful condition. It was represented to the Government of the day that a grant should be made to them in order to keep the industry going. It was feared that, otherwise, it would fall entirely into the hands of the Japanese. Accordingly the grant was made, and it may be that some wealthy men shared in. its distribution. But the money was not paid to- them because they were wealthy. 
The honorable senator also referred to the patrol vessel in Northern Australian waters. I admit that for some of the work which it is called upon to do the  Larrakia  is unsatisfactory, but I remind the Leader of the Opposition that when that vessel was ordered it was not intended that it should be employed on patrol work at all. Honorable senators will remember that when the air mail service between Australia and Singapore was inaugurated it was operated by land planes. About that time there had been a number of air  catastrophies  in different parts of the world, where land planes had fallen ii.to the sea, and it was thought that it would be unfair to ask pilots to take similar machines across the sea unless speedy assistance could be given to them in an emergency. Australia's obligation was to look after that portion of the route between Timor and Darwin, and the vessel now used as a patrol boat was obtained for the purpose of going speedily to the rescue of aviators who had fallen into the sea. 
That is not so. The Government has always recognized the unsuitability of the vessel for patrol work, and some time ago it ordered another vessel which is nov? under construction. In the meantime, the  Larrakia  has been impressed into the patrol service. In addition to the  Larrakia  there is a customs vessel now at Darwin; it arrived there within the last fewdays. Although a larger and more powerful vessel, it has not the speed of the  Larrakia,  but for the work for which it will be used it should prove reliable. 
The honorable senator complained that Parliament has been closed for six months. From his remarks one would imagine that a crime had been committed. It is extraordinary that honorable senators now find fault with a practice which has continued without complaint for 50 years in the State parliaments of this country. Since long before federation it has been the ordinary practice in every State for the parliament to sit for about six months and to be in recess for a similar period each year. No one found fault with that practice; but now that the Federal Parliament, the members of which are gathered, not from within the borders of one State, but from all over Australia, follows the same practice,  Senator Collings  and others are loud in their denunciation of it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Finally, I shall refer to the remarks of  Senator Collings  in relation to party funds, and I do so as a warning to the honorable senator, because he is on dangerous ground. I have the confidence of the Nationalist party in Western Australia, and I. know that the experience there is that the party never has a feather with which to fly. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, but not because of ample party funds. My only object in mentioning this subject now is to warn  Senator Collings  of the danger of an inquiry being instituted into the source of the funds of the Labour party. I can tell him how the- funds of that party are raised in Western Australia. The most powerful trade union in that State, as in some of the other States also, is the Australian Workers Union. In Western Australia thousands of men who were out of employment were offered relief work; but a condition imposed by the Labour Government of that State is that each man before he becomes eligible for employment shall take out a ticket in the Australian Workers Union. 
SenatorCollings. - The right honorable gentleman is wrong. 
The membership fee is 25s. per annum. If the relief workers have not sufficient money to pay the fee in a lump sum - and many of them, being on the verge of starvation, cannot do so - they are permitted to spread the amount over four payments. Obviously, the money represented by those fees is not necessary for carrying out the administration of the Australian Workers Union, because the union carried on successfully before the new system . was inaugurated. The balance-sheet of the Australian workers Union in Western Australia shows that approximately the equivalent of the fees obtained from relief workers is expended on political organizing in that State. In other words, the Labour Government ofWestern Australia, through its powers of administration, has financed the Labour party out of public funds. 
IfI were asked to say which is the more decent way to raise political funds - a voluntary contribution from those who support a political party, because they think its policy is best in the interests of the country, or a compulsory levy from those who, through unemployment, destitution and starvation are obliged to accept relief work - I would choose the former method. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Hardy)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
This morning  Senator Johnston  asked the following questions; - 
With reference to the sum of £12,000,000 voted for adjustment of farmers' debts under the provisions of the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935 - 
1 ) How muchhas been paid to each State to date, under the terms of this act; 
What is the reason for the delay in making any balances due available to the States; 
When may the States expect to receive any balance of the amounts authorized for payment to the farmers under this act? 
The answer was not. available this morning but the Acting Treasurer has since supplied the following answers: - 

<graphic href="153332193706182_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

and (3). The question of the provision of funds for this purpose is bound up with that of raising money for carrying out State public works. The amount which the Commonwealth is authorized to raise for farmers' debt adjustment is determined by the Loan Council, which consists of representatives of the States and the Commonwealth. In coming to its decision, the Loan Council must have regard to the requirements of the several governments for their works purposes, and to the total amount of loan money available to the Loan Council on reasonable terms and conditions. The sum unanimously authorized by the Loan Council for the financial year 1930- 37 was £1,500,000, and, with the exception of some small amounts yet to be drawn before the 30th June, 1937, it has all been paid to the States. No delay has occurred in advancing to the States the sums which the Loan Council has unanimously authorized the Commonwealth to raise for this purpose. The amount to be provided for 1937-38 will be determined by the Loan Council at its next meeting, to be held in July. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
, with reference to relief workers in Western Australia, I telegraphed to the State secretary of the Australian Workers Union in these terms :  - 
Pearce asserted Senate to-day when unemployed were put on relief work, Australian Workers Union Western Australia immediately demanded 25s. for ticket even though men starving. If unable find cash it must be stopped out of first pay. Sale of these extra tickets showed in union balance-sheet almost exactly amount increase expenditure pay political organizer. Please supply facts. 
To that telegram I received the following reply : - 
Men on relief works this State purchase union tickets by fortnightly instalment system at the rate of 2s.6d. per fortnight when working. No men on government relief in this State starving. No union dues stopped from relief workers unless at their own express desire. Branch secretary Johnson from this State arriving Sydney on Monday. 
Would advise Pearce sec mental specialist. (Signed) E. Dalton, acting secretary. 
 by leave.  - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has not quite correctly quoted from my speech on Friday last. This is what I said: - 
In Western Australia thousands of men who were out of employment were offered relief work; but a. condition imposed by the Labour Government of that State - 
I did not say that the condition was imposed by the Australian Workers Union in Western Australia - is that each man, before he becomes eligible for employment, shall take out a ticket in the Australian Workers Union. The membership fee is 25s. per annum. If the relief workers have not sufficient money to pay the foe in a lump sum - and many of them being on the verge of starvation cannot do so - they arc permitted to spread the amount over four payments. 
Evidently my speech was reported in newspapers in Western Australia, because yesterday I received the following telegram from  Mr. H.  K. MacLean, general secretary of the Nationalist party of Western Australia :  - 
Before man can get government-provided sustenance workhe must have Australian Workers Union ticket. If he has not means to pay necessary 25s. he cannot enter into full union membership. If he has 25s. cash he cannot get sustenance work. Alternative is to buy ticket in successive payments, with result that at no time during year is worker full union member, consequently disfranchised from voice in union affairs. Portion 25s. compulsorily goes on  per capita  basis to political funds, nortion goes to Federal Australian Workers Union organization, portion goes compulsory subscription to  Worker  weekly newspaper remainder absorbed in union administration affairs in which he is voice less. Possession of union ticket does not avert compulsory standing-down period, and although he is not fuil-time worker, full-time union fee is charged. 
Does the PostmasterGeneral remember visiting Brisbane last year and promising that a new General Post Office would soon be built there ? Further, can he say when a start will be made with the building? 
I well remember visiting Brisbane last year and examining the post office there. I recollect also that on my return I persuaded the Government to refer the matter of the construction of a new General Post Office at Brisbane to officers of the Department of the Interior and Postal Department with a view to having a thorough investigation made as to the best means of carrying out this colossal work. It would he impossible to proceed on the basis of the plans which were prepared some time ago, and at the same time continue the service required by the people of Brisbane. The matter is still under consideration by the architects of the Department of the Interior. 
No action has been taken by the Government with regard to providing a new post office at South Brisbane. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence  upon notice - 
What was the strength of the Commonwealth Military Forces (Militia) by arms, on 31st December, 1936? 
What was the total attendance of the Militia at six-day camps of continuous training during the military year 1936-37? 
What was the percentage of attendances to strength at such camps? 
What is the present strength of the Militia ? 
Strength of Australian Military Forces, by arms, on 31st December, 1936: - 

<graphic href="153332193706226_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

AH available returns to date show an attendance of 25,350 out of a training strength of 34,188. 
74 per cent. 
The strength at 31st March, 1937, which is the latest quarterly strength return available, was 35,316. 
On the 18th June,  Senator E.  B. Johnston addressed to the Postmaster-General the following question,  upon notice: - 
When is it intended to commence the erection of the second National Broadcasting Station promised for Perth? 
I am now in a position to furnish the honorable senator with the following answer :  - 
The department is anxious to arrange for a second National Broadcasting Station in Perth to provide alternative programmes, but at the moment it is not possible to indicate when the erection of the station will be proceeded with. 
On the 18 th June,  Senator Collings  addressed to the Postmaster-General the following questions,  upon notice: - 
Is anything being done to improve the situation in north-west Queensland regarding the reported poor reception from 4RN A class' wireless station ? 
Is it a fact that the reception is so poor that listeners are obliged to fall back on a B class station 4LG Longreach? 
Can he give any satisfactory reason as to why the  News Bulletin  from 4RN originally put on the air at 7 a.m. was altered to 6.30 a.m.? 
I am now in a position to furnish the honorable senator with the following answer to his inquiries :  - 
Regional Broadcasting Station 4QN is situated at Clevedon, near Townsville, and is not intended to serve north-west Queensland. 
For the present, service in this area can be economically and most satisfactorily provided by means of short wave transmission. This provision already exists, but the department is now arranging for additional facilities which will considerably improve reception conditions throughout north-west Queensland. 
Inquiries are being made and the honorable senator will be informed as soon as possible. 
On the 18th June,  Senator J.  V. MacDonald asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, the following question  upon notice : - 
Whether it is correct, as alleged to be stated by  Dr. Nott,  ex-Member of the House of Representatives, now of Canberra, "that 40 per cent, of the babies born during the regime of the Lyons-Page Government are suffering from malnutrition ", and if so, what action does the Government propose to take to remove such a state of affairs? 
The Minister for Health has now supplied the following answer: - 
The statement that 40 per cent, of children arc suffering from malnutrition is doubtless a repetition of statements that have been made by some medical authorities. These statements, however, require to be read with their full context, which indicates the degree and the nature of the malnutrition. The Government has appointed an Advisory Council on Nutrition which is now inquiring into this question. The council expects to make its report about the end of this year. 
As Leader of the Country party in this chamber I congratulate the Government on the excellent speech of the Governor-General, and the proposals of the Ministry outlined therein, because 
I believe that its programme will be the coping stone of a record of constructive legislation, which, possibly, has not been equalled in the political history of Australia. I pay a tribute to the Government in that respect, but I am afraid that I cannot congratulate the Leader of the Opposition on his oration; not only was it illogical but it also lacked in many respects the element of truth. Furthermore, the honorable senator offered no constructive criticism. I was particularly interested when he said that the Government would be indicted because of its failure to honour the promises it had made at the last elections, and that it would certainly be punished when the polling booth jury next assembled to record its verdict. I can readily understand the optimism of the Leader of the Opposition, particularly in view of" his successful campaign in Gwydir, but I draw attention to the fact that while helaunched his tirade of criticism against the Government, alleging that it had failed to carry out the promises made by its leader at the last election, he did not mention one specific instance in which the Government had fallen down on its job. He simply dealt in generalities, picturing how wonderful the world would be if private enterprise were abolished and some marvellous form of socialism were substituted. I urge the Leader of the Opposition, if he is going to continue his attacks against the Government, as undoubtedly he will because an election is in the  offings  - and at that election, incidently, he is going to meet his own Waterloo - to tell us exactly in what way the Government has failed. If it has failed to deal effectively with unemployment, let him say so frankly and give us specific illustrations of such failure; if he alleges that it has failed in its financial administration, let him make his charges specifically, instead of offering a patchwork, a crazy quilt of idle allegations. 
Although only 50 per cent, of the loan was subscribed, even that subscription  was  greater than that to any loan converted or attempted to be converted during the whole reign of the 
Labour Government, because during the regime of the Scullin Ministry no flotation or conversion operation was attempted. 
In his endeavour to indict the Government in respect of national insurance,  Senator Collings  stated that the Government during its waking moments, babbled about national insurance to the press - but never to Parliament. The honorable senator made that statement on the day after the Governor-General's Speech was read in this chamber, although in that speech a comprehensive policy in respect of national insurance was definitely outlined. Let us analyse the attitude of the Labour party towards this very vexed question of national insurance. During" the Gwydir campaign I heard  Senator Collings  attack the Government on the ground that it had not launched a comprehensive scheme of national insurance. J ask the honorable senator when was national insurance first included in the platform of the Labour party? "Was it last year, or ten years ago? No. I have before me the actual records of the conferences of the Australian Labour party, and I find that it was included at the fifth Commonwealth conference of that party held in Hobart. How long ago did that conference take place? Was it t wo years ago ? No ; it was held a quarter of a century ago! Within the 25 years which have since rolled by two Labour governments, one in 1914 and the second in 1931, have been in office, and honorable senators will seek in vain in  Ilansard  and other legislative records for one statement in which any supporter of either of these Labour governments raised his voice on this matter. The true test of sincerity is action; 25 years have gone by and the Labour party has taken no action at all to establish a scheme of national insurance; but because this Government is now proposing a national insurance scheme which will appeal to the people of Australia as a whole, and place the whole of our pensions and social legislation on a sound basis, we hear Labour supporters saying in the highways and byways of this country that this Government has fallen down on its job ! If it he true that this Government has fallen down on its job in this respect within the last two years, my reply to 

 Senator Collings is that the Labour party has fallen down on its job in a similar way for the last 25 years. I believe that when these facts are put before the people at the next election they will realize that this Government is sincere in its attempt to formulate a national insurance scheme on a sound basis. The report of an expert, which is available to honorable senators, has already been obtained, and before launching this tremendous financial experiment, the Government is analysing its probable effects and the contributions to be made by various sections of the people. While this is being done, the Labour party now attempts to indict the Government on its delay in the matter, although within a period of 25 years it failed itself to bring any scheme of a like nature to fruition. 
The Labour party was in office in 1914 and again in 1931. I direct attention to another interesting point in  Senator Collings'  speech, because it reveals his interpretation of his duty as Leader of the Opposition. In reply to an interjection by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan,  Senator Collings  said - 
The honorable senator's remark is not clever. Talk is all that we can do in this chamber; we are simply here to talk, not to chop wood. 
On many occasions the honorable senator speaks at length, and on Friday last he addressed himself to numerous subjects for an hour and a half. There have been other occasions, however, when important measures have been before the Senate, and the Leader of the Opposition has not spoken at all. For instance, during the last session of this Parliament he could have spoken on the second reading of the London Naval Treaty Bill for one hour, but the time he occupied on that measure was less than one minute. During the last week of the session five customs tariff bills were passed through this chamber, on the second reading of each of which he could have spoken for one hour, but he did not speak at all. This is a reversal of the honorable senator's contention that the electors of Queensland sent him to this chamber to talk and not to chop wood. There was also a sales tax amendment bill on the second reading of which he could have spoken for one hour, but he declined the opportunity afforded him. I also direct the attention of the Leader of the Opposition to a vital bill covering a trade agreement with France, and dealing with the production of wine and barley and primary produce generally. Although the honorable senator could have spoken on the second reading of that measure for one hour he did not address himself to it at all. There was also a Commonwealth Railways bill, dealing with important subjects, on the second reading of which he could have spoken for an hour, but he did not participate in the debate on that measure. On a Petroleum Oil Research Bill, a subject in which the honorable senator should bo interested, and an Air Navigation bill he did not speak at all. Although the honorable senator claims that the electors of Queensland sent him here to talk and not to chop wood he declined to take advantage of the opportunity to speak on at least 24 important measures which came before this chamber. My job is not to talk, but ito criticize, and if necessary amend proposals that are submitted to us. If the legislation has my approval I have a perfect right to allow it to pass without criticism. The Leader of the Opposition may place a different interpretation on his statement, but he must admit that in effect he approved of at least 24 legislative enactments of this Government without offering any comment on them. 
I fully expected the honorable senator to don his political spurs as he did and deride the members of the Country party for their defeat at the Gwydir by-election. I noticed, however, that the honorable senator did not have anything to say concerning the Darling Downs by-election, held a few weeks earlier. He concentrated upon the Gwydir contest, insisting that the result supported his indictment of the Government. The honorable senator contends that the decision of the electors in Gwydir indicated their dissatisfaction with the present Government. 
The honorable senator says " hear, hear .' ", brit apparently he ha3 not analysed the figures. Had he done so he would have found that a. number of electors in Gwydir are satisfied with the present government, because of 26 subdivisions the Country party won twelve, and the Labour party fourteen, and that in three of the subdivisions the Country party candidates - particularly in the closer settled areas - obtained more votes than did the Labour party at the last election. One of the reasons why the Labour party secured a victory at Gwydir was that the Stevens-Bruxner administration in New South Wales sent over 1,000 distressed workers from the Cessnock and Newcastle districts to work on the main roads in the Gwydir electorate. That fact has to be taken into consideration before Labour supporters can claim a political victory. 
Hundreds of men, representing the Trades Hall, descended on Gwydir, and as from 40 to 50 could be found in each subdivision, it is easy to understand the extent of the Labour party organization. The Leader of the Opposition also said, "Evidently  Senator Hardy  is anxious that I shall always be found in good company. I am sorry that I cannot compliment the honorable senator on the company he keeps ". He said that during the Gwydir byelection he frequently found me in doubtful political company. 'That is true, because representatives of a huge Labour organization conducted from the Trades Hall followed me around the Gwydir electorate. No doubt  Senator Collings  based his opinion on that fact. 
I now wish to direct the attention of the Senate to what I believe is rapidly becoming a national problem, and one which should have the serious consideration of the Senate. I refer to the closer settlement movement which is becoming vital in some of the eastern States. In connexion with such problem, the Federal Government cannot stand on the side-line, as a detached spectator; closer settlement cannot be carried out without proper co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. In speaking of closer  settlement, I realize that I shall not have -the sympathy of those honorable senators representing closely settled States such as Victoria and Tasmania, or even Western Australia, but I can assure honorable senators that in practically every country centre in New South Wales there is a strong agitation, from those of our people who are land hungry. for more land. There is a definite 'public demand for a sound and economic policy of closer settlement. I was particularly interested to note that, in the first week or two of the Gwydir by-election campaign, the issue drifted right away from federal politics, the two concluding weeks of the campaign were devoted purely to a State issue, and I do not fear contradiction when I refer to it as an outstanding issue. I do not know whether the Leader of the Opposition spoke on this subject, but when thi Leader of the Labour movement in New South Wales, whom the honorable senator applauded so vigorously on Friday, mentioned the subject he did not hesitate to drive home to the country people that further economic development is essential in that electorate. I know that it was only an election  cry,  for although the history of the Labour movement in New South Wales shows that the Labour party favours closer settlement - and this will be of interest to the three Labour senators in this chamber - no Labour government has ever been responsible for the subdivision of one large estate. In the Gwydir campaign the Labour party did not hesitate to advance its political aims by supporting closer settlement, because it sensed that among the country people a desire for closer settlement was arising. I believe that Labour's realization of that, had something to-do with the defeat of -the Country party. In -the next few clays in the Riverina, .a closer settlement conference - one of 'the largest conferences ever held in New South Wales, and consisting of men who are anxious to see some sound, well-constructed economic policy of closer settlement proceeded with - v/ill take place. There is a degree of reluctance on the part of the Commonwealth Government to -give attention to closer settlement, because the problem bristles -with difficulties and its history is full of mistakes. The mistakes made in Western Australia can be instanced; that State even now is still grappling with the problems that accrued as the result of ill-advised closer settlement schemes. Similar trouble has been experienced in New South Wales. We have now to recognize that in order to avoid a repetition of past mistakes, if any State launches a policy of closer settlement, the Commonwealth Government cannot stand aloof. There must be coordination of Commonwealth and State efforts, 'because any scheme to be successful must be placed on a national basis. Honorable senators will recognize the logic of my reasoning when I point out that the problems of primary industries do not wholly relate to production. Increased production involves the problem of marketing. How can the Commonwealth Government make trade agreements with other countries in respect of various classes of primary production if it is not aware of development in a particular economic unit? The matters of production and consumption are inextricably interwoven. The Commonwealth Government must realize that any plan for closer settlement must be the result of close planning between the Commonwealth and the States. But my case does not only rest on that point. There is the matter of the possible expansion of secondary industries. The expansion 1hat has taken place in secondary industries in the last few years reads like a romance; to-day their production is at the highest level Australia has ever known. I was particularly interested last week to read a statement by the Canberra representative of the Associated Cham'bers of Manufactures,  Mr. Withall,  in which he said that there was .a potential absorb.tive capacity in secondary industries of 50,000 Australians every year. Every primary economic unit provides a market for the secondary industries. Relatively, those industries have no export market, but every farm that comes into production provides an expanded home market. Every farm requires equipment, and every industry requires a market; it is plain, therefore, that the problems and interests of primary and secondary industries are inter-related. Because primary and secondary industries are related in matters of supply and demand, the Commonwealth Government cannot stand on the side-line when closer settlement schemes are under consideration. Then there is the unemployment problem. The Commonwealth Government has found it necessary to allocate a considerable sum for the relief of unemployment, thus proving that the problem is there, and must be grappled with. The whole of the unemployed cannot be absorbed in secondary industries. They must be spread over the whole field of production by a vigorous, sound, well-planned closer settlement policy. Therefore, it is plain that closer settlement is a matter for national planning. We cannot allow six distinct State plans to go ahead independently; we must pick up the six strands and weave them into a solid rope. Only by co-ordinated planning can we avoid the mistakes of the past. Further aspects of this matter are migration and defence, which are national matters ; both are allied with a vigorous policy of closer settlement. I dp not say that closer settlement will bring into the country a flood of migrants- or that the defence problem will be solved by it, but a wellreasoned policy of closer settlement on an economic basis must be a contribution to national development. Finally, in urging that the Commonwealth shall cooperate with the States in that respect, I point out that under the financial agreement the Commonwealth has. assumed final responsibility for State debts. Having undertaken that responsibility the Commonwealth cannot allow the States to go ahead on their own schemes of economic development involving large liabilities and long-range planning, without close financial supervision by the Commonwealth. So, although the objection may be raised that closer settlement is the function of the States, the Federal Parliament has a definite niche in any such plan, and must play its part in a general co-ordinated scheme. Such action would not be creating a precedent. We remember the  £34,000,000 migration  agreement. I was interested enough to check again the principles of that agreement, because it has almost passed into the limbo of forgotten things. The real intention of the agreement was to effect permanent settlement in Australia. 
It was an agreement between the Governments of the United Kingdom, the Commonwealth, and the States for permanent settlement. What was meant by permanent settlement? Its scope was indicated by the words "whether on the land or otherwise ". It is quite clear that at least at the period when the agreement was signed, it was the actual intention of the Commonwealth to take an active part in permanent settlement, such as closer settlement would bring about. The agreement stated also that considerable areas of land were to be made available for development and settlement. The reason for my  resume  of that agreement is that when I mentioned that matter to several honorable senators recently they said that the Commonwealth Parliament was in no way concerned with the land settlement policies of the States. I dispute that, because history shows that in the past Commonwealth governments have been prepared to enter into co-operative agreements, and to enter into long-range planning such as that provided for in the migration agreement. Further objectives of that agreement were the acquiring or resuming of alienated land, advances to settlers who were in process of settlement, and the settlement of people on the land. Therefore, there is  no  lack of precedent for the Commonwealth taking an active interest in the closer settlement schemes of the States. I re-affirm that owing to the interlocking nature of these problems and the probable marketing difficulties that will follow the further development of primary and secondary production in Australia, it is impossible for the National Parliament to stand aloof from the consideration of proposals for their solution. We have, as I have said, ample precedent to guide us. During the last few years we have, on many occasions, discussed the payment of bounties to wheat-farmers and financial assistance to other primary producers, including a subsidy for the purchase of fertilizers, the purpose being to ensure the continued activity of these production units. This Parliament has also authorized the expenditure of £12,000,000 for the adjustment of farmers' debts, and during the last six or seven years it has considered projects having as their objective the co-operation  of the States in the development of our primary industries. 
I expected that the honorable senator would have something to say about the difficulty of disposing of our exportable primary production. On that point I differ entirely from the honorable gentleman. He believes that we should seek to become a self-contained nation, revolving entirely on our own economic axis and having no interest whatever in the exportation of surplus production. 
-Ref erence to the  Hansard  report of speeches made by the Leader of the Opposition will show that what I have said is quite correct. He has stated over and over again that he doubts the wisdom of increasing our exports.  Mr. Scullin,  when Prime Minister, held different views. In 1931 he made an urgent appeal to our wheatfa rmers to grow more wheat, and so enable Australia to meet its overseas obligations. There was no talk then of Labour's policy to restrict export production. On the contrary, our primary producers were urged to go full steam ahead and provide a large surplus for sale overseas. Apparently there has been a change of front lately.  Senator Collings  now holds that production for export should be strictly limited, though his misgivings about marketing difficulties are not justified by the facts. In the years 1931 to 1935, our main primary industries - wheat, wool and butter - did not suffer appreciably from having an exportable surplus. I doubt that the Leader of the Opposition can cite one single instance of an unduly large carryover. Therefore, we should heed the lessons of the past and see that future closer settlement schemes are established on a sound economic basis. 
It is impossible to avoid trouble if settlers are placed on marginal lands. I am not now advocating the adoption of any mass scheme of closer settlement. Obviously it would be dangerous to place inexperienced men on unsuitable land and expect them to make a success of their undertaking. What I am urging is that provision should be made for the known large number of experienced men with the necessary capital who are seeking land. The time has come when, in the development of the Commonwealth primary production should once more march with the times, side by side with the expansion of secondary industry. It is, however, essential that only the right type of settler - the man with experience and financial resources - should have a chance to settle on the right class of land. Only in this way can we expect to avoid a repetition of the mistakes of the past. It is hopeless to expect a man, accustomed only to working behind a shop counter, to make a success of dairying. Furthermore, land for future settlers should be made available at a price that will not load them with excessive annual costs, and what is equally important, should be in districts with an assured rainfall, thus making possible a diversity of production. 
Some honorable senators may be sceptical as to the demand for land at the present time, and I have no doubt the Leader of the Opposition will be surprised when I say that it is very keen in the State which I assist to represent in this chamber. Recently in a ballot for 11 blocks of land in the Eastern and Western division of New South Wales, not a great distance from the scene of our election activity, a few weeks ago, there were no fewer than 3,600 applicants. 
The honorable senator is wrong. They were all genuine applicants. There are also registered, in the Lands department of New South Wales, 6,000 applicants for land, and I am further informed that there is a great number of unregistered applicants. My information is that in New South Wales alone there are at least 11,000 applicants for land, all with practical experience of some form of primary production. This being so, it is only right that the Senate should support every feasible scheme for closer settlement in order to provide those applicants with the land which they desire in areas of assured rainfall, thus avoiding as far as possible a repetition of mistakes of the past, when men were placed on marginal areas in uncertain country. 
I agree with the honorable gentleman. Recently the New South "Wales government, through its Lands department, made a survey of lands available in that State for closer settlement. The committee which made the investigation consisted of men with wide experience in all forms of primary production, and their report was a revelation. They showed that in the central and eastern divisions of New South Wales, there were 2,299 estates, each having an unimproved value of £10,000 and over and capable of subdivision. The committee estimated that the total area was capable of subdivision as follows: - 537 living areas for wool production only; 6,153 areas for sheep breeding and fattening; 2,855 areas for wheat and sheep; 4S4 areas for wheat, sheep and fat lambs; 349 areas for fat iambs and fodder crops; 1,911 areas for dairying; 129 areas for dairying and fat lambs; 1,277 areas for dairying and mixed farming; 210 areas for t attle raising and 137 areas for miscellaneous farming and intensive culture. On this basis the .aggregate acreage of the 2,299 estates in New South Wales could provide 14,042 living areas to be devoted to the various forms of primary production I have named. 
I do not suggest that all of the estates included in the survey could be made available for closer settlement. Some are being operated under sound scientific management, and are being fully utilized, so their subdivision would not lead to an increase of the economic output. It is also reasonable to urge that those estates which are being used for stud purposes could not he subdivided without economic loss to the wool industry, but I should say that of the total area covered by the report, at least 10,000 living areas could be created by subdivision. 
Yes. The committee which made its report on closer settlement emphasized that Crown lands in New South Wales, were limited and also that the Crown must undertake each year the purchase or resumption of a number of these estates for closer settlement purposes. There are three ways in which land may be made available for closer settlement. One is by voluntary subdivision. This has been tried in New South Wales, and I should add, has proved unsuccessful. The second method is compulsory resumption on an equitable basis, and the third is compulsory acquisition, which, I have no doubt, will appeal to Labour senators. I wish it to be clearly understood that I and the members of my party do not stand for the compulsory  acquisition  of any property. Should there be no voluntary subdivision of the land, compulsory resumption may be resorted to. That is what the New South Wales Government now proposes to do. It proposes to embark upon a longrange scheme of closer settlement, based on compulsory resumption of land at equitable values. That being so, the Commonwealth cannot possibly stand aloof, but must take an active part in the development of the' country. We have only to call to mind the activities of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research to realize how science can be applied to industry in order to increase production. Is not the Government entitled to extend the sphere of its activities in respect of land which is not being put to its full use? 
There have been ten Labour governments in New South Wales, but not one of them ever subdivided a private estate for closer settlement purposes. When the Labour party talks of closer settlement, and the right to free there locked-up lands, it talks with its tongue in its cheek. 
I do not suggest it now. The Labour party believes in the compulsory acquisition of land, which really means the stealing of property. 
The compulsory resumption of land is entirely different from its compulsory acquisition. Only after there has been failure to subdivide land voluntarily does the Country party believe in its compulsory resumption, and then only at an equitable valuation. 
Let us now consider the legislation introduced in 1910 by a Labour government to impose a tax on land having an unimproved value of more than £5,000. The ideal aimed at in that measure should be supported by the present Labour party ; it is a national plan for co-ordinated closer settlement. When that legislation was introduced,  Mr. Charlton  said: - 
In almost every part of New South Wales, and within easy reach of a railway, there are large estates to which the people cannot gain access. They are not being put to the best advantage, and this tax will do something towards placing them on the market. If the tax results in the subdivision of large estates, I believe it will prove the best thing that has ever happened to Australia. 
Unfortunately effect was never given to the ideal underlying the bill. Speaking on the same bill, the then Prime Minister,Mr. Andrew Fisher. in his second-reading speech, said - 
One of our great hopes is that it will convert large areas into small areas and bring about closer settlement ... As far as I can make out, in New South Wales, there are about ten times more people clamouring for small holdings than there are areas available on which they can earn a living. 
Every honorable senator will agree with the vision of those who introduced that legislation, but not all will agree with the way in which the tax was imposed, or the manner in which the proceeds were used, 
Of the amount received from the land tax, 60 per cent, is derived from property in the cities and 40 per cent, from large country estates. What would have happened had the Commonwealth Government in -1910 decided to earmark the proceeds of the land tax for closer settlement purposes? Since the tax was first imposed it has brought £54,000,000 to the Commonwealth Treasury, and had that sum been applied to the purchase of large estates, instead of being paid into general revenue, how different things would be to-day! During the last five years nearly £7,000,000 has been received by the Commonwealth from this tax; and although I realize that there are difficulties associated with allocating the revenue derived from a particular tax to specific purposes, I urge the Government, if it intends to continue the land tax, to allocate the money to the States in pursuance of a long-range plan of closer settlement.  
I urge that action be taken similar to what is done in connexion with the petro] duty, a proportion of the proceeds of which is handed to the States for the making and maintenance of roads. As I have said, I realize that there are difficulties in the way of doing what I have suggested, but I commend the proposal to the earnest consideration of the Government. I have brought this matter forward in the full knowledge that it bristles with difficulties, but the longrange policy of the New South Wales Government in connexion with closer settlement is my justification. I realize that the carrying out of the plan which I have suggested will add to the existing problems, and impinge on national policy; but, as I have said, the Commonwealth Government cannot stand aloof in this matter. It should stand behind the States to the full extent of its power in assisting them to carry out this plan. If I were asked how the Commonwealth can assist, I would say that it. can do so, first, through the instrumentality of the Loan Council, which, contrary to public opinion, is not a Commonwealth body. The States require money to finance any comprehensive scheme of closer settlement. Should they ask the Loan Council to authorize the issue of debentures in payment for the land to be resumed, I say emphatically that the Commonwealth should be prepared to give to the  proposal its sympathetic consideration. The interests of the Commonwealth and the States in respect of the production and marketing of both ' primary and secondary products are so inextricably interwoven that it is the duty of the Commonwealth to co-operate with the States. I believe that the Government realizes its duty in that respect, and will co-operate with the States. 
The Address-in-Reply is of no great moment, but it is part of a parliamentary procedure, and it gives to honorable senators the opportunity to bring before the Senate subjects which are nearest to their hearts. When an election is impending, there are many such subjects. 
I was pleased with the ceremony associated with the opening of the second session of the fourteenth Parliament. It did give a little colour to the otherwise rather drab proceedings of this chamber, and it certainly interested and entertained the large number of people who filled the galleries. We are still lovers of pageantry, and I, personally, would not like to see the opening ceremony discontinued. After all, it is a good thing to please other people; and the opening of Parliament at least provides an opportunity for a number of the citizens of Australia to see a show for nothing. I was impressed with the manner in which the Usher of the Black Rod and Captain Bracegirdle carried out their duties, especially when each walked backwards, stopping three times to bow to  His Excellency.  I am not certain that in the English Parliament the duties of Black Rod are the same as they are here. The office was instituted in  1350.  When I endeavoured to ascertain the reason for the peculiar title of " Black Rod ", I discovered that it was because the officer carried a long ebony stick surmounted by  a  golden lion. The rod used in this chamber differs from that in the House of Lords in that it is surmounted by a silver crown. One of the duties of the Usher of the Black Rod in the British Parliament is to summon the Commoners to attend in the House of Lords. When he approaches the House of Commons he finds that the door is closed in his face, arid he is required to knock upon it three times. The reason for closing the door is that, on an historic occasion, a King of England, who was displeased with the Commons attempted to arrest five of its leading members - Hampden, Pym, Holies, Haselrig and Strode - and ever since then the Commoners have insisted on the door being closed in the face of Black Rod in order to demonstrate to the House of Lords and the King that they claim freedom from interruption during their debates in the House of Commons. When I saw Black Rod on Thursday last walking backwards I could not help thinking that his action was symbolical of the reactionary policy of the Government. 
The Governor-General represents the King to whom every true Britisher is loyal. I regard loyalty as an impersonal matter. The demonstrations of loyalty given by the British people during the recent coronation ceremonies were as much expressions of loyalty to British institutions as to the person of the King. In saying that, I have no desire to detract from the prestige of King George VI. Recent happenings overseas, particularly in European countries, have intensified the belief of Australians in British institutions, one of which is Parliament. ' If democracy, as represented by British Parliaments, is to continue to have the support of the people, parliaments must be more active in safeguarding the liberty of the people and promoting the public welfare. When Parliaments fail to use their powers to the greatest possible extent in order to improve the welfare of the whole of the people, parliamentary institutions and the democratic system of government must fall in the estimation of the people. Dictators in various countries of the world have succeeded to some extent, because they have shown that they can accomplish things, whereas many democratic parliaments have failed to overcome those economic problems that beset their countries to-day. With all due respect to its personnel, I believe that this Parliament has failed, as a democratic institution, to exercise its powers to the fullest in order to achieve the general betterment of the whole of the people. It has succeeded in improving the conditions of a few who constitute a certain class, and, naturally, that class is pleased with the Government,  but so far - as the great masses of the people are concerned, the general improvement which we would expect from the actions of Parliament, apart from the improvement which has resulted from certain economic developments, has not been effected. However, I have great hopes that at the next election the people will be wise in their day and generation, and return to office representatives who will use parliamentary powers to the fullest for the welfare of all the people. 
To me the Governor-General's Speech was disappointing; perhaps I should not be disappointed as one cannot, naturally, expect too much from a dying government. My leader spoke of political window-dressing; one complaint which I have against tory governments is that they dress political windows with nice goods which appeal to the people, but the people never get possession of them. The law provides that if goods are displayed in a window for sale at marked prices, the public can demand those goods at  such  prices. I suggest that if a political party indulges in window dressing, and the price of the goods is the vote of the people,- then the people are entitled to demand those goods. 
All governments should at least tell the truth. In Brisbane an absolutely brand new political party_has just been formed. Most of its members are tainted with  toryism,  being ex-members of tory political associations or men who have deserted Labour associations. The first plank of that party is, " Tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth ". Although I do not say that untruths have wittingly been published in the Governor-General's Speech, I draw attention to the following passage: - 
Side by side with a remarkable improvement in the state of the primary industries there lias been such an increase in industrial production that factory employment is now greater than in any previous time in Australian history. 
Frankly, I do not know whether that statement is true or not, but I refer honorable senators to the following statement made in the Arbitration Court by  Mr. C.  H. Grant, representative of the employers : - 
On the face of them it appeared a notable achievement for manufacture to absorb such large numbers since the depression, but it was also remarkable that the numbers employed in 1935-30 were below those employed in 1920-27, on a population  basis 
Thus it is possible for the GovernorGeneral's Speech to mislead the people of Australia. We have it on the authority of a gentleman representing the employers, who, of course,' would not lie, that there are relatively less people employed in factories to-day than there were a few years ago. We must be careful, therefore, when we preen ourselves regarding the prosperity which has taken place in the country. 
I believe it would be correct for the King's representative when making his Speech to Parliament to tell us not only of the things that the Government declares that it is going to do, but also about a few of the things the Government has failed to do. For instance, the speech prepared for the King's representative by members of the ' Government would be much more interesting and accurate if it contained passages like these - " My advisers tell me that a few years ago, and at the last election that they were going to unify the railway gauges of Australia, but, gentlemen, they have not yet done so." 
In answer to the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Pearce,  in making his debating school points, told us that this Government, had carried out part of its policy. He said that it had constructed the line from Red Hill to Port Augusta on the standard gauge. Less than 50 miles of standard gauge railway has been constructed since the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  promised the people that the Government would go ahead with the work of standardization. I notice that the distances and gauges of the various sections of our railway system are as follows: - Cairns to Brisbane, 3-ft. 6-in gauge, 1,043 miles; Brisbane to Albury, 4-ft. 84-in.. 1,012; Albury to Red Hill, 5-ft. 3-in., 800; Bed Hill to Port Pirie, 5-ft. 3-in., 27J ; Port Pirie to Port Augusta, 4-ft. 8^-in., 564; Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie, 4-ft 8Mn., 1,052 ; and Kalgoorlie to Perth, 3-ft. 6-in., 375. The total mileages of the various gauges are - 5-ft. 3-in., 6,102 miles; 4-ft. 8-in., 7,253 ; 3-ft. 6-in., 12,891; 2-ft. 6-in., 121; 2-ft., 30. 
In dealing with this particular matter, the Governor-General could have told us that, unfortunately, the Government had not carried out at least one of its promises. In a burst of enthusiasm at the last election the Prime Minister also declared that his Government would establish water storage schemes in country centres,  and  sewerage schemes in all of the large country towns, and would attend to the extraction of oil from coal. In respect of the last-mentioned matter, the GovernorGeneral's Speech told us that it is the Government's intention to do something about this some day, but His Excellency could have made it clear that that promise had not been fulfilled. 
The Governor-General's Speech also stated - 
The Commonwealth Government, after conferring with the State governments, has agreed to make a grant of f 200,1)00 f&gt;or the financial year 1037-38 to assist the State governments to provide vocational training for those boys and young men now between the ages of eighteen and 25 who lost their opportunity of training during the depression. 
Personally I do not think that this scheme will prove successful. After all, it shows the paucity of the imagination of the Government when it believes that it can solve this problem by returning to the State governments some of the excess revenue it has taken from them by way of unnecessary taxation. At the last general election the Prime Minister also promised that his Government would abolish slums and that it would establish a housing scheme. So far from cleaning up the slums throughout Australia, it has failed even to attend to the slums at Molonglo in the very heart of the capital city. If the democratic system of the Government is to retain its position in the world, or in the British Empire, we must put an end to this political windowdressing, political philandering, and untruthfulness, and parliamentarians must submit to the people a definite plan of action, and carry out that plan, or at least endeavour to do so. The day has passed when governments can fool the people as Tory Governments have fooled them over and over again. 
Reverting to the Governor-General's Speech, His Excellency could have stated " My advisers at the last election pro mised to restore the reductions of pensions of soldiers, &amp;c, but have not done so " ; or " My advisers promised to rehabilitate the ]ural industries by providing £12,000,000 for the adjustment of farmers' debts, but -have failed to keep that promise, for in two years less than £1,500,000 of that sum of '£12,000,000 has been expended." At that rate it will take many years to distribute this amount to the farmers, most of whom by then no doubt will be dead and will not worry whether a Labour or Tory Government is in power. .Furthermore, the GovernorGeneral's Speech would have been more truthful had it read : " My advisers tell  one  that they believe in a 40-hour working week, but the Government has not done anything in that matter; it sent  Sir Frederick  Stewart to represent it at the International Labour Convention at Geneva, at which all of the delegates agreed that the general institution of a 40-hour working week was essential, but when  Sir Frederick  returned to Australia lie got the sack ". Last week we heard  Senator McLeay,  a supporter of the Government, suggesting that the matter of working hours should be left to the Arbitration Courts. I contend that the reduction of the hours of labour in industry must necessarily be dealt with as a national, not as a State, matter. Iti Queensland a statutory 44-hour week is in operation; no other country in the world has. similar legislation. It is grossly unfair to ask the Labour Government in Queensland to institute a 40-hour working week when in the other States the working week averages 45 hours. This matter must be dealt with nationally, and a general reduction of working hours throughout Australia should be brought about by the action of this Parliament. 
Having visited rural districts from time to time, I know that farmers work for very long hours, hut I arn looking forward to the day when, under a proper system of organization, fanning will be so conducted that rural workers- generally will not toil longer hours than city workers. Much of the labour in the cities is more arduous than that undertaken in country districts. Quite recently I witnessed eight labourers working on a concrete job at Coogee, and I defy any honorable senator to say that it would be reasonable to expect those men to do that work indefinitely for eight hours daily. Undoubtedly they were being exploited by their employers. Farmers work long hours, but I do not think that their work is so arduous as that of men employed in coal mines or in certain other industries Every sensible Australian citizen is looking forward to the day when,  under a scientific system of organization of industry, we shall be able to secure even greater productivity with the least possible expenditure of energy, thus leaving to the workers more time to devote to healthy recreation. 
It would have been interesting had the Governor-General-, in his opening Speech, been able to say that, " My advisers are proud that much good has been accomplished. They have kept  Mrs. Freer  out of Australia for six months, and have allowed a prohibited Chinese immigrant to remain in Australia for sixteen years."  His Excellency  might also have said, " My advisers have banned many books for the good of Australian souls. Of course the owners of the brightest brains were angry, but the development of brains might put my advisers out of control."  His Excellency  might also have said, "My advisers have set up many commissions. They have expended over £100,000 on royal commissions, the most recent being the Banking Commission, which cost over £19,000; its report has not yet been received." Such statements coming from the GovernorGeneral  would be popular with the people, but not with the Government.  His Excellency  could also have said, " During the last twelve months my advisers gave two great nations bordering on the Pacific a kick on the fiscal pants. Unfortunately,  Sir Henry  Gullett, the chief kicker, has since been confined to the political hospital for Tory rejects." 
I come now to the chief point in the Speech, the paragraph relating to national insurance, which has called forth  certain  encomiums from  Senator Hardy. 
Paragraph 5 of the Governor-General's Speech reads - 
Last year my advisers, through the courtesy of  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, secured the services of two highly qualified experts for the purpose of examining and reporting upon the possibilities of establishing some sound system of national insurance in Australia. The report of one of these experts,  Mr. G.  H. Ince, lias been received, and has had consideration. It relates to the problem of unemployment insurance. 
That appears to be very interesting. National insurance, properly conducted, is a step in the right direction, and a scheme on sound lines would receive the support of an overwhelming majority of the Australian people, but I am afraid that this Government is not sincere in its advocacy of this policy. There has been talk of national insurance since 1925, when  Mr. Bruce,  a Tory political leader, mentioned the subject. 
A Tory leader in this country promised a system of national insurance in 1923. In introducing a bill in the House of Representatives on the 14th April, 1928,  Hansard  Vol. 118. page 6748, the present Acting Prime 
Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  said : - 
Honorable members will recognize and appreciate the honest effort of the Government to contribute a practical proposal for the banishment of that grim spectre of want and misery that has too long haunted our sick and our aged. 
That nice language was used nine years ago by a Minister in an anti-Labour Government. .Although the administration of that day had a friendly Senate the measure was not proceeded with. Anti-Labour governments also expended £12,000 on a Royal Commission which inquired fully into the subject and issued four reports. The Government also authorized  Mr. C.  Wickens, the then Commonwealth Statistician,  Mr. A.  W. Sneddon, a prominent actuary, and  Mr. S.  Bennett, the Government Statistician of Western Australia - men whom  Dr. Earle  Page said had the highest qualifications - to peruse the bill which had been drafted, and to advise the Government if it were actuarially practicable. Since that time, the honorable member for Parramatta  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  has also supplied the Government with valuable information as a result of his investigations of national insurance in Great Britain. Realizing the heavy expenditure that has been incurred and numerous reports already submitted, the Australian people will naturally conclude that the Government is now bringing the subject forward in the dying hours of the Parliament purely for political purposes. When the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives questioned the Acting Prime Minister as to the intentions of the Government in this respect, he was informed that it is intended to refer the whole subject to a conference at which the States should be represented. Some day we will have a government in power that will tell the people the truth. 
I have just informed the Senate that I believe that national insurance, if properly conducted, is a step in the right direction. 
During this debate, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  aroused the antagonism of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  by referring to the funds at the disposal of the United Australia party. There was an outcry from honorable senators opposite when the Leader of the Opposition said that the supporters of the Government have an ample supply of funds for political purposes, whereas the Labour party has not. Honorable senators opposite, who are themselves capitalists, represent the capitalist section of the community and are therefore able to provide the money to place themselves in power. A number of men in the United Australia party and possibly in the United Country party are directly connected with those organizations to which Tory politicians appeal for funds for electioneering purposes. According to the  New Times  of the 4th June, 1937, a radical paper published in Melbourne, the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  is a director of the following companies: - 
Capel Court Limited; Capel Court Investment Trust Limited; Commercial Union Assurance Company Limited (Melbourne Board); County of Bourke Permanent Building and Investment Society; Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency Company Limited; National Reliance Investment 
Trust Limited;  Were's  Investment Trust Limited; Jason Golden Fleece Investment Trust. 
I did not make such a stupid statement.  Senator Foll,  for whom I have the greatest respect, is a director of the Mount Isa Mining Company, one of the richest companies in Australia. 
In perusing  Who's Who in Australia,  I find that  Senator Grant  is a director of many Tasmanian companies; . the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  is a director of insurance and industrial companies, and  Senator E'.  B. Johnston is a very rich man, owning a lot of property in Western Australia.  Senator Leckie  is a manufacturer, whilst  Senator DuncanHughes  is supposedly one of the richest men in this Senate. In these circumstances the Government and its supporters should have no difficulty in securing all the funds it requires for political purposes. On Friday  Senator Collings  mentioned hypocrisy when he was speaking about this Government, and he was called to order. But the  Labour Gall  has expressed itself similarly. It referred to  Mr. Lyons'  speech at the inaugural dinner of the Australia Club in London, when he said that Australia's recovery was not due to politicians, but to the workers who had suffered poverty and loss of their jobs, but had shown the same magnificent spirit as they had in the Great War. That, said the  Labour Gall,  was hypocrisy. Among the champions of the workers who attended  the dinner - all. in their penguin suits - were :  Sir Thomas  Inskip, Minister for the Coordination of Defence;  Mr. .Malcolm  MacDonald, Secretary for the Dominions ;  Mr. Duff  Cooper, First Lord of the Admiralty; Viscount Swinton, Secretary for Air; the Duke of Abercorn, Earl Cromer, Lord Willingdon Lord Stonehaven, Lord Strathcarron, Lord Ebbisham, Lord Cambrose, Lord Lloyd, Lord Glendyne, Lord Wakefield, Lord Nuffield, Lord Essendon, Lord Trenchard, Lord Elgin, Lord Dawson of Penn, Lord Snell, Viscount Horne,  Sir Harry  Batterbee  (Assistant Under-Secretary for the Dominions),  Sir Phillip  Game (a former Governor of New South "Wales),  Sir Henry  Weigall (a. former Governor of South Australia), Admiral of the Fleet,  Sir Ernie  Chatfield (First Sea Lord),  Sir Maurice  Hankey (Secretary to the Committee on Imperial Defence),  Mr. Montagu  Norman (Governor of the Bank of England), and  Mr. Olive  Baillieu. 
One thing certain is that Australia's recovery was not due to the United Australia party. In proof of that I shall road statements made at various times by supporters of the. Government. One of them is  Mr. Fadden,  the new member for Darling Downs. Speaking at Toowoomba on the 4th December last, the Honorable J. A. J. Hunter, M.H.B., said - f first knew " Arty " Fadden when ho was a smiling small hoy at school. Years afterwards I came across a " Fadden " in the north who was counted the leading public accountant there, and one of the most prominent in the State. On inquiry, I found it was the same little " Arty " I had known twenty years before. " Arty " Fadden's father was a good Labour man, and I honestly believe that if "Arty" followed the dictates of his heart he also would be a member of the Labour party. The fates, however, have been unkind to him, and he finds himself a member of the Country party. In the  Warwick Daily News  of the 7th December, 1936,  Mr. John  Lawson, a tory M.P., is reported as having said, when speaking on behalf of the candidate of the United Australia party for Darling Downs - 

 Mr. Fadden is a city accountant, who has never rendered the Darling Downs any public service, while his will o' the' wisp flitting from electorate to electorate in the hope of finding a safe sent for himself has obviously caused him to overlook the important fact that the the people of the Downs possess instincts of fair play that will not permit political gate crashers to traduce most highly esteemed citizens. 
How they love one another !  What  Mr. Fadden  himself said on that occasion is also interesting. On the 9th December, he said - 
Country people could expect little consideration from the United Australia party, comprised as ;t was with a Cabinet of capital city men The United Australia party on its Cabinet composition, represents purely capital city interests. Those interests have nothing in common with the people who have made and are making this great area of the Darling Downs a better and more prosperous electorate to live in. 
On the 5th December he had said - 
The United Australia party gave its allegiance to the big financial and manufacturing interests of the cities, and to the middlemen and monopolists, because it received its support and power from those people. How then, could the United Australia party serve the countryside as well as those in the city who sucked the lifeblood from the countryside? If you put an United Australia party man into the Federal House to represent the Darling Downs you are going to give your allegiance to your political enemies - the manufacturing and commercial groups and the middlemen. No man associated with the United Australia party - a party backed and influenced by city interests - could conscientiously serve city interests and ambitions, and at the same time adequately realize what the countryside required in the way of legislation. Proceeding to deal with the parliamentary record of the United Australia party in its endeavour to govern without Country party assistance,  Mr. Fadden  said its history in that attempt was a sorry story. The United Australia party tariff policy had nearly smashed all the industries of the country. Primary industries were subjected to repeated onslaughts, and were beaten to their knees, preference being extended by the United Australia party to cheap, foreign, black-grown products, so that city importers - the men behind the United Australia party - should reap a harvest. 
I can give the honorable senator chapter and verse of what  Mr. Fadden  said as reported in the  Warwick Daily News.  I wish that  Senator Hardy  were in the chamber to hear what I have to say about the Gwydir by-election because during that campaign he occasionally overstepped the mark. With  Mr. George  Lawson, the Labour candidate,  Mr. Scully,  who has since entered the House of Representatives, was driving one day from one village to another in a car on which were two placards bearing the inscription "Vote for Scully" when he was stopped on the highway by the Country party organizer who expressed a desire to be given transport to the next .village at which  Senator Hardy  was to speak.  Mr. Scully,  being a gentleman, promptly gave his political enemy  a lift. About a mile from the village  they  heard a loud voice championing the Country party. Lo  and behold! It was  Senator Hardy  speaking th rough amplifiers. As soon as  Senator Hardy  saw the Labour car approach, he said to the crowd - all six of them - " Turn around and gaze upon the men from Sydney, the representatives of the Trades Hall, who know all about the Country party. Look upon these men, who are nothing but political adventurers." And the first man to step out from the car was his own organizer! The West Australian  Wheatgrower  in referring to the result of the Gwydir byelection said : - 
The defeat was had enough, but for the Country party and its supporters to ascribe defeat to any other reasons but the right ones shows that the party lias not learnt its lesson. Gwydir voted out the Country party, and voted in Labour, not only because the Country party has done nothing constructive, but because the things it did were coercive, dictatorial, anti-democratic. Not one constructive achievement can be placed to the record of the Federal Government - the United Australia party admitted this by attempting, at the last minute, to bribe Gwydir by a prom'ise of a £10,000,000 water scheme. But the Government's failures and mistakes arc legion. The fact is that the United Australia party has won its every election, not on a constructive policy designed to deserve the public's vote, but on some slogan designed to stampede the electors into voting against Labour. 
But yon can cry " Wolf " once too often, and the indications are that, whatever the Government's tactics, the people will prefer Labour. 
I need not say any more about Gwydir - that by-election certainly had its lesson for the Government - hut there are thousands of people throughout Australia who are completely satisfied that no great constructive work on a national basis has been done by this Government. When  one  studies the policy of our political enemies, one is confronted with the fact that they only deal with big questions in a limited and small-minded way. This afternoon  Senator Hardy  spoke of closer settlement. Undoubtedly this is a matter of vast importance, yet when I asked the honorable senator what was to be done about the marketing problem, he did not answer me. It is futile for any government to enter into a scheme of intense development without first trying to solve the problem of increasing purchasing power and enlarging markets. I contend that any party, to be successful, and to demonstrate the efficacy of democ racy as opposed to dictatorships, must bring forward legislation basically altering the economic system in order that we may, while improving our production, improve also distribution and the absorptive power of the people. All thinkers recognize that democracy and parliamentary institutions are in peril; the people must therefore insist that Parliament shall do its job. A part of its job is to improve the economic organization of society so that increased production may be accompanied by a wider and more equitable distribution. The Labour party believes in national insurance, but such a system must he in consonance with other schemes to increase the productive capacity of the people. The Government appears to be pessimistic; apparently it does not believe that our economy can be so organized as to increase production and manage distribution in such a way as  to  ensure a sufficiency of the good things of life to all our people Great Britain has operated a scheme of national insurance for over twenty years, but apparently it has not been entirely successful, because, no so long ago,  Sir John  Orr, an eminent British medical man, confessed that over. 20,000,000 people in the Mother country were tindernourished. We on this side contend that instead of introducing a scheme such as that existing in Great Britain, to which all beneficiaries must contribute, the right thing to do is so to organize the national economy as to assure to every man, woman and child in the community a reasonably good economic status. 
Unfortunately there seems to be something lacking in modern democracies. Mussolini and Hitler are scornful of our system of parliamentary government. They regard Great Britain as a decadent, nation, and point to their achievements in Italy and Germany respectively in justification of their dictatorship rule. Russia also has been organized on a dictatorship basis. Fortunately, we know the weaknesses of dictatorships, so it behoves us, as believers in a democratic form of government, to do something more than merely tinker with such vital issues as national insurance anc! other social services. Unhappily this Government has not been seised of its responsibilities; not long ago it caused a great deal of trouble over the admission to Australia of Egon Kisch and Mrs.Freer, and more recently has bad some adventures with. Japanese pearling vessels in our northern waters. The exploits of the patrol launch  Larrakia  are fresh in the minds of the public. To-day the Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson)  in  the  House of Representatives made a belated statement concerning the Government's proposals to safeguard the Australian pearling industry against foreign intrusion, and we all hope that effective action will soon be taken to protect Australian pearlers from unfair competition by foreigners. 

 Senator Marwick this afternoon spoke about the need for effective measures to prevent soil erosion in Australia. Queensland is much interested in this vital problem, and the people in my State will be glad to hear when the Government intends to do something to check the evil. We know what has happened in South Africa and the United States of America, where millions of acres of valuable agricultural land has been destroyed through soil drift, and thousands of farmers have lost their all. The well-known Australian writer Ion Idriess in a series of newspaper articles published a month ago, gave some disquieting information about soil erosion in this country. He referred to the extensive drift that has been taking place for many years in the south-western portion of Queensland, the south-eastern areas of the Northern Territory, and the north-western corner of New South Wales, and went on to say:- 
Right to the Darling the dust came years ago. Now the sand is coming fast and at Menindie it has blown across the river and is creeping on, creeping on. The station people look aghast at this creeping enemy. Over great areas it has now choked " permanent " waterholes, has silted up creeks .... Its drift comes relentlessly on to smother the tracks and creep into tanks and wells. It is ' killing ' the. water . . . 
Numbers of sheep stations that 25 years' ago carried 100,000 sheep are now battling to support 30,000 . . . 
Country has been denuded of its already sparse timber . . 
Millions of sheep and cattle have eaten vast quantities of herbage that helped bind the topsoil . . . 
Rabbits, greatest destroyer of all, ate the very roots of the tougher herbage; even ringbarked the trees. Loosened top soil washed into creeks . . . 
Dry season came and the winds blew friable soil away exposing the clay here and there and so forming new clay pans. 
So pressing has the problem become in Australia, that interested people in all the States are looking for some indication of statesmanlike action by the Commonwealth Government to prevent further soil erosion. 
Included in the Government's proposals to assist primary producers a year or two ago was the provision of £12,000,000 for the adjustment of farmers' debts. That was heralded as a major act of Government policy, but I regret to say that it has failed entirely to rehabilitate the farming community. Recently I visited the farming areas in southern Queensland and learned that, due to adverse seasons and low prices for their products, hundreds of primary producers were on the verge of poverty. One share-farmer dairyman informed me that his last monthly cream cheque was only 14s., and I was further informed that one butter factory which manufactured 90 tons of butter a week was now turning out less than 19 tons. These individual instances of failure are indicative of what is happening in so many rural areas and show the need for organization of primary production on a sounder basis. 
All these important issues affecting the economic development of Australia should be considered from the national standpoint. We know that the world is cursed by economic nationalism. Its effect upon Australia is such that the adoption of well thought-out proposals by the National Parliament is imperative in the interests of the people  Senator Hardy  this afternoon commented on the fact that our export of secondary products is almost negligible. Our position in this respect is, I suggest, governed to some extent by the growth of economic nationalism, and I have no doubt that the following statement which appeared recently in a New Zealand newspaper will be read with interest by the honorable senator: - 
Auckland, 13th April, 1937. 
The expansion of Australia's exports to New Zealand at the expense of British manufacturers is causing concern. At a meeting of the Auckland Manufacturers' Association it was stated that goods which normally came from Britain were now coming in increasing quantities from Australia, thus increasing New Zealand's difficulties in the face of the understandings that when Britain bought from New Zealand the dominion should buy from Britain. It was decided to place the position before the other interested associations. 
This indicates clearly that the development of Australian secondary industries is leading to the competition by Australia with British manufacturers in the New Zealand market and is apparently causing some concern in New Zealand. The same condition obtains in the various European countries, where, for some years, there has 'been intensive application of science to industry with a view to making each country independent of the other. On this subject the Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  in April of this year, published the following statement: - 
The advocates of Douglas credit have done good service in calling attention to the failure of the financial system under which we live. I give credit to them for their propaganda which has shown that, under the existing financial system, thousands of men, women and children in the cities of Australia are starving, notwithstanding that ample food to meet all their needs is available in this country. The people of Australia are beginning to realize that there is no need, other than is imposed by a wrong financial system, for any person in this country to lack sufficient food. Were it not that the system is wrong, there would be no need for the' Minister for Health to go about the country talking of the dangers arising from malnutrition. If every worker in the community had an income .sufficient to provide food for his family, malnutrition would not exist. When the Labour party displaces the present Government it will put its financial and industrial policies into operation, and many of the problems now confronting Australia will disappear. 

 Senator ABBOTT  (New South Wales) [5.21J.  -  I am afraid that were I to attempt to reply to some of the statements of  Senator Brown,  those journals which will give full publicity to the propaganda contained in his speech would not publish ray remarks. In the circumstances, I shall not attempt to answer the honorable senator, but shall deal with some of the subjects referred to in the Speech of the Governor-General. 
I desire, first, to add to the congratulations, which have already been expressed by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  and other honorable senators to the mover and the seconder of the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply  Senator McLeay,  who submitted the motion, put his case clearly and logically, and when he praised the Government for its accomplishments he did not indulge in exaggeration. All that he said in that connexion was true and justified. The speech of  Senator Marwick,  in seconding the motion, gave promise of a long and useful career in this Parliament. 
The attendance of Ministers at the Imperial Conference has been criticized during this debate and, indeed, the usefulness of the conference itself has been questioned. Unfortunately, attempts to belittle the elected representatives of the people attending these conferences are not confined to this Parliament; sneers and jibes are heard on all sides and even the press of this country is not guiltless in this connexion. I do not, think that the importance of conferences between the elected representatives of the Mother Country and of the dominions can be over-emphasized. The parsimonious outlook of those who quibble at the expenditure of money on such conferences is greatly to be deplored.  The Opposition, which has criticized these visits, professes to believe in democracy. Surely the principles of democracy apply as well to the Empire as a whole as to Australia. We must not overlook the fact that practically every member of the Imperial Conference is an elected representative of the people under the democratic system of government of which Britishers are so proud. It is most desirable that such representatives should meet together to confer on the democratic ideals of the great family of nations to which they belong. It is sheer hypocrisy to condemn such visits, the purpose of which is to make the wheels of government in the British Empire revolve more smoothly. If, in the distant future, the Labour party should attain to the Treasury bench, I, for one, will not cavil at reasonable expenditure incurred by its representatives in meeting with the representatives of other parts of the Empire in conferences designed to promote the welfare of the people. 
The system is right. There must be consultation between the Empire leaders. 
In a general way, the Leader of the Opposition has found fault with the Governor-General's Speech, describing it as window dressing in preparation for the election, but he carefully avoided specific references, and did not attempt to prove that any -of the achievements of the Government to which the Speech draws attention have been other than desirable and in the best interests of the country. The Government and the people of Australia have a right to be proud of such achievements. Not only the present generation of Australians, but also future generations, will have cause to thank Providence that governments with the same political outlook as that of the present Commonwealth Government came to the rescue of this country. I remind, honorable senators that it was under a Labour administration that the Savings Bank of New South Wales closed its doors, with the result that £60,000,000 of the people's money was locked up for eight months, to be released only when a non-Labour government came into office. When the bank was closed during the Lang regime, it was not uncommon for poor persons to seek to sell their bank books to usurers for 7s. 6d. in the £1. The part played by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  in saving the country during that crisis is a matter for the profound gratitude of the nation. 
From the remarks of Opposition senators one would think that' the present Government took credit for all the improvement which has taken place in Aus- tralia since it came into office. The members of the Government are not lunatics; they do not claim to have been wholly responsible for the improved conditions. But they do claim to have saved Australia from the ill effects of a policy of inflation and from mal-administration such as that which New South Wales experienced when the Lang Government was in office. Of the Governments which succeeded the Scullin Government, this at least can be said that it did much to guide the Australian ship of state into the calm waters of a safe port. I denounce the election clap-trap which has been indulged in. 
I refer to the propaganda of the Opposition which contains the inference that the parties forming the present Commonwealth Government had nothing to do with the recovery of Australia from the financial depression. 
This afternoon  Senator Brown  suggested that the present Government had nothing to do with the recovery. 
paragraph of the Governor-General's Speech dealing with defence provides strong evidence of right aspirations on the part of the Government. The speech states - 
The example of disarmament set to the world by the British nations, and not least by Australia, has not been followed. 
That is perfectly true. Because of some of my actions in this chamber, I am sometimes regarded as a pacifist. ln hope and aspiration I am a pacifist, but I am not a lunatic who fails to recognize that when a burglar is lurking near my home it would be very unwise for me to throw the key out of the window to him and. tell him that I have not got a gun and that be may come in and do what he likes. That, of course, would be illogical. Without being smugly-hypocritical, one can take satisfaction in the belief that theBritish nations were absolutely sincere in trying to set an example to other nations of moderation in respect of armaments. Unfortunately, that example was inter preted in some quarters as a sign of weakness, and some people were mean enough to take advantage of what they thought was weakness to increase their armaments with an ill-concealed desire to drive a wedge between the countries within the Empire. I am not a jingoist, but I believe I shall have the support of every honorable senator in saying that there are people who, because we have tried to do the fair and honest thing, by the world in general, because we have realized the crushing burden of armaments, and have shown a desire to ameliorate such conditions, think that this is a sign of the decadence of the British people. If, because of this misreading of our attitude, those driven to envy of that measure of prosperity which has been given by Providence to the British peoples, would seek to exploit, dismember and conquer our Empire, my form of pacifism will be to join with my fellow-Australians in proving that we are prepared to use our armaments, if necessary, to prevent such happenings and to enforce fair dealing in this world. To that extent, I believe in the re-armament of the British nations' to-day. A higher outlook among the peoples of the world is still needed, but in the meantime, we say definitely to the burglar, if there is one, " We shall not throw the key out of the window to you, and we are not going to invite you in; if you try to force your way in, remember that we have a gun ". 
Consequently, I add my congratulations to those of my colleagues to the Government on its alertness and activity in respect of national defence. If there is one thing which makes it desirable that we should be a strong people, it is our duty to preserve that great system of democracy of which honorable senators have spoken this afternoon. I suppose that the greatest heritage the British race possesses, and one of which it has every reason to be proud, is its ability to handle and use effectively the democratic instrument of government. I hope that I shall not seriously offend people of other nations and races when I say - and the statement is justified when one looks at history, and, more particularly, at recent events - that one cannot help but feel that in the use of the democratic instrument of government, the people of the British race are evolved probably 200 or 300 years ahead of other peoples. I say that in no boastful or egotistical spirit. With all the faults, to -which its opponents can point, the democratic system of government is being used successfully in the world to-day ; that fact is outstanding. No matter what its minor faults may be, it is, on- the whole, being used successfully by the British peoples. After all, it is the greatest and the best system of government. In British countries we have a right to our political " revolution " every three years or so, when the parliamentary terms expire. A few enthusiastic supporters of our opponents might be tempted to get rid df the system altogether, but our opponents as a whole, if they happen to be in the minority, do not want to abolish the system. On the contrary, a change of government may be effected at the ballot-box and, as a people, we have the faculty of accepting that fact. Perhaps it sounds like national conceit to say so, but the explanation of this attitude is that we have that sense of sportsmanship which enables us to accept the umpire's verdict when he decides we are out of our crease; we walk out without attempting to dispute his decision, and when our innings is ended we recognize it as part of the game that the other fellow shall have a turn with the bat. The great value of these liberties, which our ancestors won for us hundreds of  year3  ago, is that they give to the great bulk of the people the right of expression. The' difference between our democratic system of government and the systems of government in other countries is, I contend, that where we give to the people the right of expression they give to the people the command of repression and suppression. Thus I congratulate the Government on being alive to the necessity for effectively defending that bright pearl in the diadem of the British people - democracy: I hope that we shall never weaken in the use of our parliamentary institutions. Too often we are apt to forget what we  owe to those who won such privileges for us. A little while ago I had occasion to take a certain course in this chamber, but in doing so, I simply used a privilege won : through you,  Mr. President,  of expressing an opinion, a privilege which was won for us in the House of Commons. I often wonder whether the young people in the press galleries of our Parliament give a thought to poor Wilkes, who won the right of the press to come into our parliaments and report our parliamentary proceedings. There have been occasions when some people have been apt to abuse that privilege, and to forget much of what Wilkes won for them. He looked upon that right as something sacred, as something which must be respected, and not abused - as something which formed an integral part of that great democratic system of which all of us are so proud. 
I wish now to deal with some of' the subjects mentioned in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. I was very interested in the remarks of my leader,  Senator Hardy,  this afternoon in respect of closer settlement, and the relationship of federal governmental functions to those activities which come more properly within the sphere of the States, and appear, at first sight, to be beyond the functions of the national legislature. The problem of land settlement is inseparably interlocked with our national and international functions. In the first place land settlement must be considered in conjunction with the watersupplies. To make any use of land, water is essential; it may come in the form of rain, but if it fails to come in that way it must be provided by conservation or irrigation. In the irrigation areas in the Riverina district, I witnessed a wonderful demonstration of the value of the policy of closer settlement, and of State activities in that respect. Near Leeton or Griffith, when I visited those areas in company with  Senator Hardy,  I saw a little patch of land, an acre in extent, on which a settler had been grazing 225 sheep for a period of a week, and I failed to see that those sheep had made any impression upon the wonderful pasture, which consisted of strawberry clover, subterranean clover, and various kinds of rye grasses. The point I make is that, through State activities, we are intensifying closer settlement; by that system we are securing greater productivity from the land, and are  increasing our output of primary produce. We are thus brought undeniably to the subjects which were raised by  Senator Hardy  this afternoon, of markets and marketing and, in turn, overseas trade. Thus we have a pyramid based on State activities, and culminating in federal activities. The disposal of our surplus produce overseas raises, first, the matter of Imperial preferences, and, in turn, the restoration of the old flow of trade between the nations of the world. We are also brought face to face with innumerable other matters which become of federal concern. For instance, how far can we trade with other nations without jeopardizing the future of our important primary and secondary industries? In our international trade, we have to consider the relation of our secondary industries to those of our customer countries. Thus these matters rest, as it were, on the broad base of State action in the form of a pyramid, which rises finally .to the international issue. Consequently, there is no escape from federal responsibility in the incidence of such problems as closer settlement. I join with my leader, therefore, in urging the Government to recognize that it has a responsibility to do what it can to extend closer settlement and more intense cultivation, either by sympathy or direct financial assistance, or, through the Loan Council, help the States in this purpose. I point out to  Senator Collings  that there can he no suggestion of inflation in that proposal. Does the honorable senator seriously suggest that if the Loan Council were to make money available for the purpose mentioned, that would be inflation ? That is not the form of inflation mentioned by  Senator Hardy. 
The inflation I have in mind is that attempted in those dark days when the Scullin Government was in power. The Senate, as the bulwark of the nation, defeated the measure providing for a fiduciary issue which a Labour government attempted to foist upon the country. 
Only to a very modified extent. 

 Senator Hardy directed attention to the genuine demand in New South Wales for land for closer settlement purposes. Thousands of genuine land-seekers in that State are anxious to acquire holdings of a sufficient area on which to make a living. When  Senator Hardy  was speaking,  Senator J.  V. MacDonald interjected, that most of the applicants for land were " dummies ". Had this morning's Sydney newspapers been available,  Senator Hardy  could have replied that the Lands Department of New South Wales has reported that this year from 3,000 to 4,000 applications had been received from landhungry applicants in that State. To prove the inaccuracy of  Senator J.  V.  MacDonald's assertion that applications, are received largely from " dummies ", I draw attention to the fact that the Lands Department of New South Wales, states that about 1,000 of the applicants have between £1,000 and £2,000 in cash or in plant which they are ready to utilize if land be made available. About another 1,000 have between £500 and £1,000 in cash or in plant, while another 1,000 havea little cash and plant, and the remainder little or nothing. It will therefore  beseen  that a large proportion of the applicants are genuine land-seekers possessingcapital and plant. Apparently  Senator J.  V. MacDonald is speaking of the " dummying " which took place after 1861 and prior to  Sir John  Robertson's Land Act of 1884, and is apparently unaware of the provisions of the act. Since that Act of 1884, it has been, practically impossible for any one to participate in " dummying " in any shape or form. As I am fairly conversant with the New South Wales land laws and have had a good deal of experience in land matters, I can say quite* definitely that there has not been any " dummying " in New South Wales for many years. In an attempt to destroy a constructive policy  Senator J.  V. MacDonald and those with whom he is associated will say that any reference to closer settlement is made only for political window-dressing purposes. I trust that those opposed to the Government at thenext election will be fair, and put the- position clearly before the electors, instead of suggesting that if additional areas be made available they will be acquired by " dummies " on behalf of those who already hold large tracts of land. If they are really interested in that subject they should study the official reports of the New South Wales Lands Department. If the word " dummy " is used in the sense in which it is employed in the Crown Lands Act of that State, their remarks are based on complete ignorance of the subject. Since 1884 legislation has been so tightened up by numerous amendments, that it would defy the ingenuity of even  Senator J.  V. MacDonald to devise a means by which that law could be evaded. If what we have heard from honorable senators in Opposition on this subject is all they have to say against the policy advocated by  Senator Hardy,  they have a very weak case. 
It was suggested by interjection, that if the purchasing power of the people were raised, production  would  increase. Is not the converse true - that if production were increased the workers would enjoy a greater purchasing power, and general prosperity would result? The Leader of the Opposition referred to the fact that in attempting to assist the primary producers, the Government had induced the overseas shipping conference to reduce the freight on certain primary products by £500,000 a. year, but he wept - glycerine tears - because, at the same time, the Government proposes to reduce light dues and has asked the State governments to reduce harbour dues. 
Yet the honorable senator is probably one of those who would strongly advocate a return to penny postage, believing that such a reduction would lead to increased postal business. If harbour and light dues are reduced. the costs of shipping companies operating in Australian waters will be less and Australia's business may become more attractive to steamship owners than it is at present. The Government has acted in a statesmanlike way in an endeavour to aid production, and to assist the people generally. 
Some sections of the community endeavour to flog the Government merely for political purposes whenever it attempts to assist the people. This, and the preceding government have a magnificent record, and have been responsible for restoring financial and economic stability. The magnificent gesture made by  Mr. Lyons  concerning a Pacific pact shows that Australia is always willing to take a broad outlook on world affairs. The Government is being flogged by certain politicians, because rightly or wrongly a certain woman was prevented from landing in Australia. The importance of that incident has, for political purposes, been grossly exaggerated. Whatever may be the merits or demerits of the case the comments of certain individuals show the extreme to which this -miserable political flogging can be carried. Whether the action taken by the Minister at the time was right or wrong, I know that there is no one in the public life of this country whose character is higher or who endeavours more sincerely to carry out his duties in a strictly impartial manner. For political purposes, the Opposition has also taken advantage of the situation which has arisen in consequence of the activity of foreign pearling vessels operating in northern waters. Honorable senators are aware that Australian governments have jurisdiction only within the threemile limit. Many of the luggers in northern waters are operating beyond the three-mile limit where we have no power whatever to interfere. The action taken by the Government is largely with the object, of protecting the unfortunate aborigines, who at times have been molested by the crews of foreign luggers. These outsiders have been coming into contact with the aborigines with unfortunate results, due to some extent to the weakness of the aborigines themselves; such intercourse must eventually result in the serious deterioration of the race, and possibly its ultimate annihilation. The Government i3 anxious to protect the aborigines in the reserves provided for them ; such reserves are practically the only areas over which the Commonwealth has jurisdiction. The Commonwealth has no jurisdiction over pearling luggers operating off the Queensland coast.- 
The records disclose that there have been only a few cases of actual encroachment upon aboriginal reserves under Commonwealth jurisdiction, and action is being taken in the interests of the natives to prevent foreign luggers from operating within the three-mile limit. The suggestion has been made that pearling operations, which extend more than  50  miles beyond our territorial limits, can be controlled by the Commonwealth authorities; but that is not so. The Government having realized the necessity for taking action proposes to construct sufficient vessels to ensure an adequate form of patrol. The members of the Labour party exploit issues such as this in an endeavour to flog the Government, but disregard its remarkable achievements which have been instrumental in saving the country from the disaster which confronted it when the Scullin Government was in office. The British Trade Commissioner said that Australia was the first nation to start on the road to recovery. 
-lt was not due to the Scullin. Government. The recovery did not begin until that Government had been put out of office. 
It is fair, because the Scullin Government was not able to borrow one penny in Great Britain. It was dismissed from office in order that a party which could restore our credit might be placed in power. 
 I congratulate the Government on its record since it was returned to power. [ was particularly pleased to hear the speech delivered by the Governor-General.  His  Excellency's reference to the recent Coronation of  His  Majesty King George VI. and  Her  Majesty the Queen reminded me that once again the British Empire had successfully emerged from a crucial test. When we saw that the young man whom we had regarded for many years as the person who would ultimately occupy the throne had stood down, our hearts were uneasy. I desire at this stage to pay a tribute to the then Prime Minister of Great Britain, who was then  Mr. Baldwin,  but who has since been raised to the peerage for the way in which he handled the crisis. The former Prime Minister is a remarkable man - a personification of British character. It is a tribute to the British Empire that, when King Edward VIII abdicated the Throne, there was no political upheaval such as would have followed such a happening in other parts of the world. On the contrary, we saw this Empire come triumphant through the ordeal with its highest political traditions intact and the British Monarchy more firmly enthroned in the face of the dictatorships which had arisen in other parts of the world. We all desire that the new King, a man of whom we think in the highest terms, and his Queen - that wonderful - woman whose charm and modesty are so well known to us - will be long spared to reign over this wonderful aggregation of nations which make up the British Common weal th . 
In his Speech the Governor-General said - 
My advisers are pleased to be able to record the marked financial and industrial recovery which has taken, place in Australia.  Recorded  unemployment, which in 1932 had reached the previously unknown level of 30 per cent., has progressively fallen until to-day it stands at less than 10 per cent., a state of affairs which compares favorably with that existing before the depression. 
Probably- one of the greatest tests that could be placed on a government to-day is the employment of the people. We have to remember - and I hope the people of this Commonwealth will not forget this - when the Lyons Government came into power it was entrusted with thi5 rehabilitation of the whole of this Commonwealth. The national credit of this country had slid into the depths. The financial equilibrium and the economic health of this country had been almost destroyed. Labour was in power in the Commonwealth and in a number of the States, and the people, realizing the difficulties that existed, asked that the Lyons Government take charge of affairs in thu Commonwealth sphere. The last Scullin budget, delivered in  1931,  disclosed a Commonwealth deficit of  £10,750,000,  and a combined deficit for the Commonwealth and the States amounting to  £25,389,000. At that time the New South Wales deficit alone was £7.856.000. When the Financial Emergency Act was forced upon the country by economic pressure, the combined deficits were already approaching £40,000,000. The history of those years, although so recent, is almost forgotten by the people, but it is well to remind them that after a comparatively few years the Lyons Government has rehabilitated the affairs of this country almost back to the predepression levels. In June, 1932, economies were enforced under the Financial Emergency Act and necessary new taxation was imposed. The first Lyons Government budget disclosed a Commonwealth surplus of £1,314,000 and the combined deficits were reduced to £19,500,000 of  which  New South Wales was responsible for £14,250,000. In the following year the improvement continued, and in June, 1933, the Commonwealth had a surplus of £3,546,000; in June, 1934, £1,301,000; 1935, £711,000; 1936, £3,587,000; and it is estimated that there will be a further surplus this year. The total surpluses disclosed in these budgets amounts to nearly £10,500,000. The Lyons Government took office in the darkest days of the financial and economic history of the world, and it has achieved a wonderful record. The last  speaker, Senator Abbott,  said that one of the highest tributes that could be paid to any government was paid to the. Commonwealth Government by the British Trade Commissioner. That gentleman said that the Commonwealth had set an example to the rest of the world in its handling of the depression. 
The Governor-General's Speech also contained this passage - 
My advisers desire to repeat that this recovery would not have been achieved as quickly as it has been without the patriotic co-operation of the people as a whole and the patient endurance of those who are the greatest sufferers from the depression. 
The Leader of the Opposition took exception to that. 
The Australian workers are deserving of the highest possible tribute for the share they took' in revitalizing this country. In thinking of them, I am reminded of a cartoon I once saw in an English newspaper which depicted a worker in his overalls standing above the caption " The new English gentleman". We can pay no higher compliment to the workers for their part in the avoidance of economic, disaster than by saying that the great majority of them stood loyal and true. It was the one thing that saved the democracy of the British Empire. 
They could have done other things that workers in other countries have done. Some other countries have deserted democracy. In his Empire's hour of trial the British work man stood true. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

During the period under review, this Government has done remarkable things in the rehabilitation of the Commonwealth. For instance, since it took office the loans raised in Australia at below 4 per cent, have totalled £98,000,000, the Commonwealth debt has been reduced by £8,616,833, overseas debt totalling £200,000,000 has been converted at rates of interest which mean a saving in interest and exchange of £4,000,000 a year, taxes amounting to £15,605,000 were remitted in 1937, and salaries and social services have been restored to the value of £3,774,000 per annum. In addition,  the amount paid to the six States for road construction purposes has totalled £14,187,000, the amounts paid to the States to assist their budget positions have totalled £3,000,000, and special grants to South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania have totalled £13,090,000. For unemployment works and relief, mining and forestry, the States have received £3,840,000, for health promotion, £98,000, and for assistance to primary producers, £20,856,000. The total amount given to the States, in addition to payments under the financial agreement of between £8,700,000 and £9,000,000 a year towards interest and sinking fund in respect of State debts, is £55,071,000. 
Honorable senators will agree that .this is a remarkable record, especially when we take into consideration the depression and financial instability existing when the Lyons Government took office. The relief given to taxpayers in the form of tax remissions has been substantial "and most welcome. During its period of office, the Government has remitted £5,205,000 of income tax, £1,200,000 of land tax, £6,740,000 of sales tax, £1,115,000 primage, and £1,205,000 of customs and excise duties, making a total yearly remission under these headings of £15,605,000. 
Let us consider now what the Government has done with regard to the restoration of social services and salaries. Since the financial year 1933-34 there has been a restoration of invalid and old-age pensions to the amount of £1,745,000; of maternity allowances, £115,000; of war pensions and repatriation -allowances, £547,000; of public service salaries, £1,297,000; and of public service superannuation payments, £70,000; making a total of £3,774,000. This in brief outline is. the Government's record in the rehabilitation of the finances and social services of the Commonwealth. 
I come now to the Government's proposals for defence. The GovernorGeneral's Speech states - 
Provision for national defence, always an essential element of policy, has been of overshadowing importance. The example of disarmament set by the British nations, and not least by Australia, has not been, followed. 
Honorable senators will agree that for many years Great Britain led the world in a policy of disarmament, but, unfortunately, its -example was not followed by other nations, with the result that the Mother Country is now committed to a five-year defence programme involving an expenditure of £1,500,000,000, an expenditure unprecedented in the history of the Empire. Australia has, during the last four or five years, expended between  £30,000,000  and £40,000,000 on defence, and this year its commitments are in the region of £9,000,000. Although our expenditure may, by some people, be considered heavy, it is insignificant in comparison with that of the Mother country, and we have to remember that we rely for our protection on the strength of the British navy. All honorable senators, I hope, appreciate the necessity for adequate defence. Alexander Hamilton, one of the- foremost American public men of his day, referring to the nation's obligations, said : - 
Among the many objects to which a race of free people will find it necessary to direct their attention, is that of providing for their safety from invasion. 
It is the paramount duty of the Commonwealth Parliament to ensure the defence of Australia, and I am glad to know that the Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill)  has laid the foundation of what to me seems to be a satisfying scheme for the protection of the Commonwealth. I believe that the future defence of Australia lies in the air, and I am glad to know that adequate steps are being taken to establish an efficient air force, and the manufacture in Australia of aeroplanes for defence purposes. I hope also that, in the not distant future, provision will be made for the manufacture in this country of all motor vehicles as part and parcel of the defence scheme. 
The Governor-General's Speech, referring to national insurance, stated - 
Last year my advisers through the courtesy of His Majesty's government in the United Kingdom, secured the services of two highly qualified experts for the purpose of examining and reporting on the possibility of establishing some system of national insurance in Australia . . . 
The action taken by the Government is, I believe, the beginning of what will be one of the most important innovations in Commonwealth legislation. The most difficult phase of social insurance is that relating to unemployment, and it is worth noting that the two most conservative and also the most highly industrialized countries - Great Britain and Germany - have for many years operated efficient systems of national insurance. I believe I am right when I say that Great Britain has set an example to other nations in the direction of unemployment insurance. 
I agree with the honorable senator. The Mother country to-day is most progressive because British  statesmen,  having to ah unusual degree the gift of prescience, peered into the future and laid the foundations of essential social services which to-day are regarded as a pattern to the world at large.  Mr. Harold  T. Butler, the 
Director of the International Labour Office at Geneva, under the League of Nations, an officer, who by reason of his position is perhaps the most knowledgeable man in the world on these matters, said recently in his report upon unemployment insurance - 
So tar from their being demoralized by the insurance benefits or the State assistance which they received, the constant clamour of the nien and women reduced to idleness was always for employment. In Great Britain, the birthplace of unemployment insurance, where its effects can perhaps best be judged, ten3 of thousands of workers have migrated from the most stricken areas to seek employment in other parts of the country, and the un intermittent demand of those that remain is not to be left alone in subsidized idleness but .once more to he given an opportunity of earning f heir living. . What is true of the British working people is true of others. The average man everywhere prefers work at a. fair wage to idling on a pittance.. This truism, which might have seemed  self-evident  enough, has now at last been established beyond dispute. 
A second bogy which had also been laid to rest is the belief that public expenditure for the relief of unemployment is economically unsound. Before the depression national schemes nf unemployment insurance existed only in Austria, Bulgaria, Germany, Great Britain, the Irish Free State, Italy and Poland. In other countries voluntary schemes subsidized by the State were in operation, while in many there was no public organization whatever for assisting the unemployed. At the present time unemployment insurance has been introduced as a national measure in Canada and the United States, and its adoption is contemplated in Australia, Belgium and South Africa. 
The report shows that 31 countries have already adopted some form of social insurance.  Mr. Butler  went on to slate: - 
While their resources were thus seriously depleted, the insurance funds had to meet a heavier demand for benefits. The natural sequel to unemployment was greater frequency of sickness and invalidity, especially in countries where no regular system of unemployment insurance or assistance existed. Unable to bear the additional charges placed upon them, many funds had to cut down benefits just at the time when they were most needed. Pensioners had often to accept sacrifices when they could least afford them, and the means for combating disease had to be restricted just at the. time when they should have been reinforced in order to counteract the harmful effects of privations resulting from the depression. 
And then with added emphasis he said : - 
Nevertheless, in spite of these  formidable  difficulties, social insurance as an institution lias weathered the storm. Everywhere the inverse process' is now in operation. The mem-  bership  of funds is expanding, revenue is rising, restrictions on benefits aTe being removed,  neW developments  are being planned or executed. Inasmuch as the application of a modicum of intelligence will prevent the recurrence of a storm of similar dimensions in the near .future, it may be hoped that tinplace of social insurance as an integral part of the social system is assured. 
As a great many people in this country doubt the practicability of a scheme of social insurance, I shall quote from the report of a gathering to commemorate the 2ist anniversary of the inauguration of health insurance in Britain, at which  Mr. Lloyd  George delivered an interesting speech. The report stated - 
The National Health Insurance celebrated its twenty-first anniversary on the Kith July. 11)33, at which the following were among those present: - Lord Reading,  Mr. Winston  Churchill,  Mr. .T.  H. Thomas, and  Sir Kingsley  Wood, who might be described as the scheme's  godparents ". 
The chair was taken by the Minister for Health,  Sir Hilton  Voting. 
Although it was left to  Sir Hilton  Young, as representing the Government, to describe the national health insurance scheme in terms of figures of " positively astronomical dimensions ", he allowed himself a vivid image or two, as when he described it as having "driven the spectre of insecurity from the homes of the people ". 
The total value disbursed under the scheme, he said, till a few weeks ago. was £490,000,000. It was supported by over 7,000 approved societies, involved the assistance of 19,000 medical men, and had been imitated by no fewer than twelve other countries, including Norway in the north, and Japan in the Far  East 
As  Mr.  Lloyd  George rose to his feet, the whole gathering rose with him, and for almost half a minute nothing could be heard but cheers and shouts of "-Good old L.G." He began quietly by welcoming those who had helped to put the act on the statute-book, mentioning in particular Lord Beading.  -Mr. Churchill, Mr. Thomas,  and  Sir Kingsley  Wood, and pausing for a moment to recall with regret the deaths of three other colleagues in the fight  - "Charlie" Masterman,  Sir Robert  Morant, and  Sir Laming  Worthington-Evans  "I should like to reminisce", he said. "I have just been reading of what happened 21 years ago. It was not pleasant. I had almost forgotten what a really bad time 1 had. "It was a peculiar measure in one respect - there never was a measure more needed and never a measure less wanted. There are three great stages in every reform - the first, investigation of the evil and the methods to meet it; secondly, propaganda to create a demand for the remedy; thirdly, statesmanship to supply that demand. The second stage was missing. Whatever the need there had not been a demand created, and you had to persuade the Cabinet, Parliament, and the country to jump over the gap. lt was not easy. There was no real enthusiasm for it at the time, and not even a party enthusiasm, which is very useful in the absence of a genuine one. (Laughter.) " The friendly societies wore worthy of their, name - very friendly. There was another kind of society which was not so friendly - the society generally associated with Mayfair. They raised an agitation which reached formidable dimensions. There were great meetings in the Albert Hall, which is a very important building, for it is the real test for the success of an agitation. 

 Mr. Lloyd George then quoted reports from the  Times  of two great demonstrations held in the Albert Hall to carry resolutions " not to lick stani.p3 ". One report declared that " the keynote of the oratory was England and liberty", and said, that "free Englishmen and women wore prepared to die rather than bow down to a foreign tyrant of Wales. (Laughter.) " lt was a serious movement. It was the first attempt at organizing a general strike, and it lasted just as long as the next one. For the first week millions did not pay; the next week millions more paid, and the third week they came in very nicely. 
Then came the doctors." 
Iri this connexion, it is pleasing to note that the  president  of the British Medical Association in New South Wales, in his presidential address recently,  expressed his belief in national health insurance, and urged that the introduction of a scheme to provide for it should not be delayed another moment. The report of the British gathering continued - " They were persuaded, and honestly persuaded, they were faced with ruin. It is n hard-worked profession, and I had a great deal of sympathy with them as long as they believed that. It was the first time the medical profession had come as a body into politics, and politics are a very heady wine. You have to get accustomed to it, and they were not. I do not think they have done too badly for a. profession that was going to starve. " There is to be a meeting of the British Medical Association in a few days, and no doubt they will carry many resolutions. There is one which will not be carried - a resolution demanding the repeal of the medical benefit of the National Insurance Act, and a return to the old contract system." " The health insurance scheme has been a success ", concluded  Mr. Lloyd  George, " and a scheme so financially sound that it is the only one with a surplus. It was the outcome of the greatest  constitutional struggle which this country had seen for two centuries. This is the age of deficits for empires, republics, and great countries, and yet here is a scheme which has to apologize that its surplus has come down to £36,000,000." 
That shows how people can misjudge the effects of reforms which are about to be initiated. No legislation on the statutebook of Great Britain has been more successful than that which established a scheme of national health insurance. Similar results have followed the passing of legislation to provide for unemployment insurance. These results have been achieved in the Old Country, which is supposed to be conservative. There was a time when Australia was regarded as being in the vanguard of civilization in regard to social reform, but that proud position has not been maintained, for several other countries, including conservative England, are now far ahead of it in these matters of social insurance. 
The report of the International Labour Office also refers to the difficulties associated with agriculture. I quote the following extract from it: - 
Finally, a fresh start is being made in dealing with the social problems of the countryside. Their international treatment has always encountered special difficulties, because agriculture presents little of the uniformity of conditions which characterizes industry. Whereas the industrial population is mainly divided into employers on the one side and wage or salary earners on the other, in the agricultural community there are many intermediate categories between the great land-owner running a large estate on industrial lines and the agricultural labourer. The farmer, the peasant, the tenant, the share-tenant and sharecropper, and other classes of land-workers represent  different  social outlooks and requirements according to the size of their holdings and the tenure under which they work them." Climate, soil and immemorial usage constitute factors making for diversity, which hardly exist in relation to the factory or the workshop. Hence questions such as hours of work, social insurance, leisure and standard of life are far less susceptible to general regulation in agriculture than in industry. Attempts to apply industrial labour legislation to agriculture have therefore only met with very partial success. Yet for many countries the social advancement of the rural population is a bigger and more urgent problem than that of the urban communities. During recent years a good deal of progress has been made. Minimum wage legislation, paid holidays, medical service, unemployment insurance are beginning to be extended to workers on the land in a form adapted to the special conditions of their employment. It is therefore timely that the Governing Body lias established a Permanent Agricultural Committee, comprising as far as possible representatives of the various agricultural interests. Its first meeting is planned for the beginning of next year. Its first task will be to survey the various social problems as they affect the agricultural community with a view to suggesting how they can best beapproached by the International Labour Organization. 
I commend that extract to those who anticipate insuperable difficulties in applying a scheme of social insurance to agriculture. As time passes, Australian farmers must employ improved methods of sowing and reaping crops. Notwithstanding the remarkable advances which have been made during the last 50 years, there must be a still greater application of science to agricultural production. Science is also being brought to the aid of wool-growing - Australia's greatest primary industry. Some time ago, when  Senator Guthrie  advocated the rugging of sheep, there were many who laughed at him; hut he is not alone in his .belief, for recently I had a conversation with a well-known grazier, who told me that he was rugging about 2,000 sheep, and that, as a result, he expected not only more wool, but also wool of better quality. He was working in conjunction with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. The wool of rugged sheep was cleaner; previously some of the wool was not usable, but that condition no longer obtained, and thus a considerable loss was avoided. Honorable senators have probably heard of the old gentleman who, when asked why he wore three or four overcoats on a warm day, replied that he did so in order to keep out the heat. Experts, tell us that sheep which are rugged are cooler in hot weather than those not so covered. In case honorable senators doubt the accuracy of these statements, I inform them that they are made on the authority of  Sir Frederick  McMaster, than whom there is no greater authority on sheep in New South Wales, and possibly in the Commonwealth. Similarly, the difficulties which exist in respect of agricultural pursuits will be overcome, probably within' the next quarter of a century. 
I emphasize that the development of the Northern Territory must be considered in conjunction with any scheme for the defence of this country. Some time ago in this chamber I stressed the necessity for the construction of roads into the territory. I contended that at least two arterial concrete roads should be built, one from the east and the second from the south, and I was taken to task by honorable senators, who contended that such a proposal was impracticable. When I suggested that bridges should be built in order to provide a permanent connexion with the north, I was told that this also was impracticable. According to recent newspaper reports the Government considers as practicable the construction of an arterial road from the south, and it is expected that this highway will be ready for use, so far as the negotiation of water courses is concerned, within the next six months. It is imperative that such roads should be built in the Northern Territory; if I had my way I would spend £1,000,000 immediately in providing such facilities in that part of Australia. The construction of roadways will prove to be the beginning of the sound development of the Northern Territory, and will also enable us to defend Australia more effectively, a fact which, I suggest, will he made apparent within the very near future. If there were proper means of access to the Northern Territory, at the present time thousands of tourists would visit there annually. Only recently a party of womenfolk journeyed from Melbourne to the north. If the necessary roads were available I feel sure that thousands of people would go to that part of Australia "annually, and such a development would mean the opening up of the territory, because once our people became "familiar with the north, its problems would be solved. The building of arterial roads in the territory is one of the most important works that can be undertaken in the development of this country, and I hope to see such an improvement achieved before long. Men who are familiar with every inch of that part of Australia have informed me .that roads can be built there at a cost small in comparison  Avith  the benefits which Australia would reap therefrom. 
A feature of the Governor-General's Speech was its comprehensiveness.' It stated that the Government recognized the importance of oil from the point of view of both the defence and the economic development of this country, and, as I have repeatedly appealed to the Govern-  ment to do something in that direction, I was pleased to hear that it had definitely decided to develop the Newnes shale deposits. These deposits offer remarkable possibilities, and I am proud to learn that  Mr. Davis,  of the well known firm of gelatine manufacturers, has taken on this job. He was the gentleman who took charge of Cockatoo Dockyard and converted it from a losing, into a payable, proposition. He is one of the most amazing industrialists this country has produced, and, I believe, that if any man can make a success of Newnes he will. It is imperative also that the Government should encourage the production of oil from coal, because the future of coal lies in that direction. The old method of burning coal for power is passing rapidly; the next phase in the utilization of that mineral is the extraction of the oil by chemical means, and its conversion into compounds which are more easily and more economically usable. In that respect I remind honorable senators of the development of the diesel engine. In parts of America to-day that engine is pulling full train loads on transcontinental railways at a fraction of the cost incurred when coal was used. The future of the railway systems of the world depends on the diesel engine, because it can be operated so economically. Possibly it offers the only solution of the problems now confronting railway systems generally. In Australia, where our railways are operated under a kind of socialistic system, we are losing money, whilst railway companies in individualistic America also are suffering loss. The only solution of that problem will be found in a new method of producing power from fuel, and that method, so far as we can see at-the moment, is the use of oil. That era is coming as sure as we are here. At the great works at Billington-on-Tees in England, and at certain works in Germany, great quantities of oil fuel are being produced from coal. It is remarkable that whilst it is generally supposed that the English proposition is in its experimental stage, the controlling company, Imperial Chemical Industries, has decided to duplicate its plant. In view of these facts I am glad to see that the Government has made a beginning in this matter. The production of oil is of para mount importance to Australia, because without it we could not defend the country. Neither could we operate aeroplanes or motor, vehicles of any kind. To-day we are using motor power even for the traction of our artillery, for which work the horse is now out of date. Practically all methods of land transport depend upon oil, and apparently the only inexhaustible and economical source of oil in Australia  is coal. In this country are . almost inexhaustible deposits of coal with the highest oil content of any coal in the world. Yet, so we are told, we are awaiting further experiments in this field, in order to determine whether the production of oil from coal is economical. Surely it should be sufficient evidence of the practicability of producing oil from coal when we see a company of the magnitude of Imperial Chemical Industries, after establishing one plant at a cost of £10,000,000, deciding to duplicate it. I trust that this Government will carefully watch this movement in the field of synthetic chemistry and, at the first possible moment, will introduce into Australia the most modern method of producing oil from coal. 
I support the remarks of  Senator Hardy  in respect of the need for intensifying closer settlement throughout Australia especially in New South Wales and Queensland. I have preached this policy for quite a number of years ; I did so even when other men laughed at me. Those scoffers are serious to-day. Unless such a policy is pursued the population of Australia cannot be increased at an effective rate. For years I have endeavoured to persuade the Government of New South Wales to adopt the improved system of pasturing that has been so successfully demonstrated by  Mr. Prell  in the Goulburn district. This system introduces new ideas, which give greater carrying capacity on grass lands.  Mr. Prell  has asked the Government of New South Wales to spend £60,000 in purchasing land in the Goulburn district, on the understanding that he will personally supervise the inauguration of his system on such land, but no action has yet been taken. In endeavouring to carry out closer settlement we must find means whereby the smaller areas will be enabled to equal the productive capacity of the existing larger areas by the use of more intense cultivation methods. That is the only solution of this problem, and I hope the Government of New South Wales is not letting this wonderful opportunity pass. At the moment, fortunately, a revival of interest in closer settlement is very much in evidence. It is very noticeable that the peasantry in other countries occupy comparatively small areas of land, but their production from such areas is wonderful. A similar system of land settlement must be established in this country in the interests of the future of the Commonwealth. It is the only system  of land settlement which offers us any opportunity, and I suggest that Australia's economic destiny lies in that direction. The Commonwealth Government, therefore, should take definite action in respect of that matter, because the populating of Australia is one of our greatest problems, and present indications are that the rate, of natural increase will not be sufficient to enable this country, which stands, as it were, on the fringe of civilization, to develop rapidly and effectively. 
The record of the Government has been truly remarkable, particularly when we remember the extraordinary difficulties which confronted it when it took office. I cannot understand how any one could have anything hut good, to say about it. Very easily I could paint a picture of the past, especially in New South Wales, when things were so bad that citizens suffered a continuous nightmare, and men and women went in hourly dread of what disaster might befall them. They did not know what was going to happen; their assets were disappearing and their savings were being dissolved in banks which, they had believed, would never collapse. It was a time of unprecedented tragedy, constituting one of the darkest periods in the political history of this country. To-day I can only trust that the people of Australia as a whole will never forget that experience of their fellow citizens of New South Wales. I quite believe that thousands could not possibly forget it even if they desired to do so; the experience was so tragic as to impress itself indelibly on their minds. They should also remember that, prior to those dark days, they asked for a change of government, despite the efforts of those in control at the time to build up a system which would protect our people against the cataclysm of the depression then sweeping the world. Unable to appreciate those efforts they cried for a change of government, and they got it in the worst government which has ever held office in the history of New South Wales. I do not hesitate to remind the electors of New South Wales, or in fact those of any other part of the Commonwealth with whom I come in contact, of what occurred when a change of Government last occurred. We do not have to study the position very closely to find overwhelming evidence of the fact that the present Commonwealth Government has not only been successful in clearing away the debris with which it was first surrounded, but has also given effect to a statesmanlike policy which has resulted in bringing about financial and economic security in Australia. Having achieved such remarkable success in almost every phase of its activities, it is now faced with the responsibility of- preparing for financial and economic depression in the future.  Mr. Butler,  of the International Labour Office, said that it is imperative for the nations to prepare for future depressions. That is one of the responsibilities facing this and future governments, so that the security of the Australian people may be ensured. Severe as were the disasters associated with the Great War, they were greater only in some respects than those forced upon the peoples of almost every country by the financial depression from which the world has now emerged. I trust that this Government, which has done so much to restore and improve the position of the Australian people, will he particularly alert, and that it will build up defences against any possible recurrence of depression and also, whenever possible, it will legislate in such a way that the standard of living will be raised and the rights and privileges which the people now enjoy will be preserved tn them. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN (South Australia) [S.48~. - I heartily support the motion moved by my colleague  Senator McLeay  and seconded by  Senator Marwick,  and I compliment those honorable senators upon the able manner in which they dealt with the subjects they discussed. This debate has covered a wide range of subjects. On this motion we are permitted to -discuss not only the subjects contained in the Governor-General's Speech, but also other topics. In this instance, honorable senators have the rare opportunity of debating a motion for the adoption of an Address-in-Reply just prior to a general election. This enables them to address electors from the floor of the chamber and to distribute copies of their speeches to those interested.. 
The presence of His Excellency the Governor-General in this chamber, the. firing of a salute and the opening ceremony generally, may be regarded by a few as so much unnecessary pomp. In view of our somewhat limited population in comparison with the world's millions, this ceremony might savour of exaggeration, but when we recall the recent Coronation of His Majesty King George VI., we must realize that we are part and parcel of that great British Empire on which the sun never sets, and that we are closely allied to the Mother Country. For many years under a limited monarchy, we have been loyal to government of the people by the people, and perhaps never before have our principles of government been so severely tested as they have been during the last few months. The British Government so successfully handled a difficult position that its actions not only met with the satisfaction of our people but also so enhanced in the eyes of the world the British monarchical and parliamentary system that by comparison Soviet rule and Fascist dictatorships pale into insignificance. As citizens of a British Dominion, we pay tribute to the mother of Parliaments, led by the Baldwin Government; the crowning of George VI. in such a peaceful genial atmosphere was undoubtedly the result of brilliant and tactful management. 
The main portions of the GovernorGeneral's Speech, having been discussed at length by honorable senators who have preceded me, almost anything that may be said by me will be repetition. I should, however, like to refer briefly to the success of the present Government, which is not arguable from any view point. The members of the Opposition in this chamber have said that the Government has not done anything. 
I maintain that the Lyons Government has a wonderful record of achievement. I -do not propose to repeat the figures cited by  Senator McLeay  and other honorable senators,  but  I maintain that the record of this  Government  is more outstandingly successful than that of any other Commonwealth administration. As a representative of one of the less populous States, I have no hesitation in saying that  this Government  has given more assistance to the weaker States than did any preceding Commonwealth government, and it would  be  a calamity to Australia if the Lyons Government were superceded by any other administration. About  five  and a half years ago the first Lyons administration came into office with a definite rehabilitation programme, which has been carried out most successfully, and it would be regrettable if the Government were not permitted to complete  the  good work on which it is now engaged. 1. do not claim for a moment that the success which has been achieved is wholly due to the Government's efforts, -but the Ministry is entitled to credit for the way in which, after the worst of the depression had passed, it allowed the people to rehabilitate themselves. 
During the approaching general election, the subject of a 40-hour week will receive a great deal of prominence.  Senator McLeay  said that what the worker needed is not more leisure, but more money. If I know the workers I believe that they want both. I am prepared to give them as much of both as is possible^  but  in dealing with a 40-hour week we  must  take into consideration the fact that Australian producers have to sell in the world's markets, in competition with those whose hours of labour are much  longer.  In those circumstances the Australian people, under a 40-hour week, would have, not more leisure and more money, but little money and a surfeit of leisure. 
No. I am suggesting that if the hours of labour in Australia are shorter than in those countries with which our producers compete, we cannot expect to succeed. I have sufficient faith in the Australian workers to say that they can do a given quantity of work in a shorter number of hours than similar work can be done by other workers. This subject mustbe dealt with under the law at present operative. If we give effect to a 40-hour week -by legislative enactment, we shall be asked before long to determine the basic wage in the same way. I should like to ask the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  why a 40-hour week has not been introduced in Queensland? 

 Senator knows why. 
If the system possesses the virtues which the honorable senator suggests, why has it not been introduced by the Labour Government in that State ? 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Of course it is. States cannot compete on unequal terms, and neither can nations. 
Only to a certain extent. If a 40-hour week is so desirable, why does not the Queensland Government give a lead in the matter? 
I am strongly in favour of a system of national insurance. The advantages of such a scheme have been dealt with at length by previous speakers, but it is necessary to impress upon honorable senators and the public that such a proposal should be studied from every angle so that any scheme introduced will be sound. Many persons whom one meets suggest that it is only necessary to wave a magic wand and a workable scheme embracing pensions and other social services will become operative. The problem is exceedingly difficult, as any Common wealth scheme would have to replace the existing activities in six States and meet with the approval of seven parliaments. It therefore appears essential that a conference, between the representatives of the Commonwealth and the States should be commenced in order to reach a workable arrangement. The Government of New South Wales published in one of the leading newspapers of the State the following advertisement in block type :  - 
As  Senator Hardy  said this afternoon, we have been waiting 25 years for the Labour party to act. 
Five years would have been long enough in which to formulate a scheme. As an example of the difficulties associated with national insurance, I may mention that South Australia has paid out of revenue £3,000,000 for sustenance and unemployment relief in the last five years. It is only natural to conclude that the recipients, when told that they will have to contribute towards national insurance, will point out that in the past they had not had to do so. National insurance has been in existence in Great Britain for a number of years, and from 1924 until now, because of unemployment, the British Government has had to supplement the fund by £700,000,000. It will be seen, therefore, that a scheme of the kind envisaged is not going to have the magic effect which some people expect. I am, however, in favour of its institution. 
I shall commit myself to nothing until I see a scheme which I believe is workable ; I shall then grip it with both hands. When I hear people, in this chamber and elsewhere, as I have heard them in the last few days, declaring that Australia is lagging behind in social services and doing nothing for its aged and invalid people, I am moved to remind them that no country in the world has done so much for its people in this regard as has Australia. The more one thinks and ponders over what has been done, the more one is amazed. For instance; there is hardly a child born for which the Government does not pay a bonus of £5 so that it may be immediately clothed. So soon as the child toddles it has the benefit of free kindergartens. When it is fit to go to school it receives free education, and if the parents cannot afford to buy school books for it, the Government does so. Free education carries  with  it a number of bursaries, whereby a child with marked intelligence can go on into the realms of higher education provided at the universities. Then as soon as the child goes to work it has protection against exploitation. The Arbitration Court fixes hours, wages, and other conditions of unemployment. These social services continue throughout a man's life. If a man cannot find here a woman to become his wife, then the immigration laws will help him to import one. Yet it is alleged that this country is backward in providing social services. Additional benefits conferred upon the population are also to be found in the laws of the States. The South Australian Government has built one thousand homes which are let at nominal rentals. If a man takes ill he is covered by insurance and he can have free hospital accommodation. If he has no job, he is provided with rations, and, when he reaches the age of 65, he receives the old-age pension or goes to a State institution. There are also police and transport services and subsidized public libraries. We are already doing more for our people than is any other nation on God's earth, but I am still prepared to help to enact a scheme of national insurance. 

 Senator Marwick said that he was pleased to note that the States and the 
Commonwealth had reached a satisfactory agreement 'for the control of aviation. I too am pleased, indeed, that the governments have reached this agreement, but recently there has been some controversy among the people regarding this matter and at the recent referendum they spoke very definitely. 
In my opinion, so long as clause 92 of the Constitution carries the interpretation given to it by the Privy Council, no agreement between the States and the Commonwealth regarding trade and commerce will be watertight. I believe that so soon as someone wants to upset any such agreement there will be successful litigation. The referendum taught us at least one lesson. I understand that the. Government has under consideration:, some method of simplifying the ballotpaper for Senate elections. It is a reflection on the intelligence of the people that" in the last referendum the informal votesnumbered 250,000. The people must educate themselves; all we can do is to make the voting paper simpler. It is amazing that after years of free education which cost millions of pounds, a quarter of a million persons in this country cannot mark a ballot paper " 1 " and " 2 ". 
I counter that by asking how many votes would have been informal if persons had not stood at the doors of the polling booths distributing " How to Vote " cards?  
I think that even if it had been there, but for the instructions given to voters as to the way in which to mark ballot-papers, the number of informal votes would have been' even greater. 
I welcome the proposal to re-constitute the Interstate Commission. In my opinion,  this  step has been too long delayed. Wo have expended considerable sums on  royal  f.ommissions and I venture  the opinion that the Interstate Commission could do more expeditiously and with better results to this country the tasks for which those were set up. 
I support the project for the extraction of oil from shale, and I congratulate the Government on the arrangements it has made with a private company for the exploitation of the Newnes deposits. With the last  speaker,  I also ask that the Government will give due consideration to the hydrogenation and low carbonization processes for the extraction of oil from coal. I hope that if any company comes forward with proposals for the operation of either of these processes the Government will be just as liberal in treating with them as it has been in respect of the Newnes company. We talk a lot about defence/ but without oil much of our preparations for defence will be useless. 
In order to investigate thoroughly the menace of soil erosion we have established in South Australia a laboratory at the cost of something like £20,000.  Senator Brown  read an extract from an article by  Mr. Ion  Idriess in reference to Australia's waste lands in south-western Queensland, north-western New South Wales, the south-eastern portion of the Northern Territory, and in South Australia. I am strongly of the opinion that at least for the time being these barren spaces should be ignored. If we are to have a searching inquiry into soil erosion, let us make our experiments where some measure of success can be achieved ; that is in country where there is at least some rainfall. The portions of country alluded to by  Mr. Idriess  have an annual rainfall of only 4 inches. It is impossible to plant any grasses known to us that will grow in such dry areas. There is only one thing that will rehabilitate that country - and we have had a good deal of it in other parts this year - and that is rain sent by Almighty Providence. It is wonderful how the country will recuperate after rain. Without rain it cannot be handled. Our greatest enemy in this respect is the rabbit, which is not content merely with eating the surface growth, but delves down to the very roots of the grass. Our first aim should be to get rid of this menace. I commend the efforts the Government is making, but advise the people not to look for big results from barren country where the annual rainfall is only 4 inches. I ask the Government to concentrate its efforts on land further south which enjoys a more adequate rainfall. That is in the agricultural areas where we have been experiencing drift and erosion. We might as well attempt to dam the MurrayRiver with our hands as try to convert the desert wastes from drifting sand into pastures, although, at the present time, because of the advent of substantial rains, country that twelve months ago was a desert denuded of vegetation is now covered with grass and the Sturt pea, converting the country into a vast flower garden. 
I commend the Governor-General's Speech to the people, and at the same time ask them, before any thought of changing this Government for some unknown quantity enters their mind, ' to look at its past record. We can always better judge people by what they have done than by what they say they are going to do. 
 I join with other honorable senators in congratulating the Government upon its splendid administrative and legislative -record. As a supporter of the Ministry since  1931,  I feel sure that when the time comes to face the electors again, we shall be able to submit to them a record of such merit as fully to warrant a renewal of their confidence. 
I was disappointed that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  in his opening remarks, should have thought fit to comment upon  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral in ungenerous terms, and to include in his remarks previous occupants of that distinguished office. I am glad to know that  His Excellency  is sufficiently interested in Australia and its people as to desire to become better acquainted with it and them; so much so that during the recesses he has travelled extensively throughout the Commonwealth, in order that he may have first-hand information of our problems. The Governor-General is to be commended for his interest in our welfare, and I regret that the Leader of the Opposition should have made a veiled attack upon  His Excellency. 
Notwithstanding what the Leader of the Opposition has said by way of interjection, I remind honorable senators that, in his speech on Friday last, the honorable gentleman referred to the Governor-General as one of the " imported gentry ". I and other honorable senators regret such remarks. 
Having said what was in my mind on that subject, I turn now to some of the matters mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech. The first relates to defence. Whilst I deplore the necessity for heavy expenditure under this heading, we have to face the facts, and" realize that the Commonwealth has a responsibility in this matter in conjunction with the Imperial Government and the governments of the other dominions. In addition to the scheme of defence outlined by the Government, there is urgent need to take adequate steps to people and develop effectively the empty spaces of Australia. We are in possession of a huge country; we are a few people, and we are not doing so much as I believe we should do to fill our empty spaces. Therefore, I would like the Government to give closer consideration to this aspect of defence by encouraging the settlement on the land of Australianborn citizens, and also introducing desirable migrants of British stock. 
The manufacture in Australia of munitions for war purposes has been mentioned in this debate. We have been  told that, in all probability, we shall manufacture not only for our own requirements, but also for other portions of the Empire. This information is welcome. I join with the Leader of the Opposition in expressing dismay at the necessity for manufacturing munitions, but, since they are essential for Australian defence, if they can be manufactured successfully in this country I shall be glad to see the industry established here. 
 Senator Brown  questioned the sincerity of the Government in relation to the inauguration of a scheme of national insurance. The honorable gentleman's doubts are wholly unjustified. When the Lyons Government was returned to power in1 931 no mention was made then of a scheme of national insurance. The Government was fully occupied in cleaning up the wreckage for which the Scullin Government was responsible. During the 1934 election, there was again no mention of national insurance by either party, but in the following year, when  Sir Frederick  Stewart paid avisit to Great Britain and Europe, he was commissioned by the Government to investigate and report upon the system of national insurance which has been in operation in Great Britain for many years. Upon his return, he presented his report to the -Government, and so impressed was the Government with the obvious advantages of such a scheme, that in the following year it asked the British Government to place at its disposal two of the most eminent experts to investigate and report upon the position in Australia. These two gentlemen arrived last year, and carried out their investigations. One report on unemployment insurance which has been received emphasizes the complexity of the problem, and outlines a scheme which, it is believed, will prove effective. The other report has not yet been received by the Government. I hope that when it is to hand it will be found to be as favorable as that supplied on the subject of unemployment insurance. I mention these facts to show that the Government has done all that could he expected of it in the time at its disposal. Perhaps, it could have saved some time by introducing, as no doubt a Labour government would have done, a half-baked, ill-considered scheme. But, before embarking on such a vast financial undertaking, it wisely decided that it should first obtain the very latest and most authoritative information upon all aspects of the scheme. 
I was glad to note, in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, that the Government has made available to the States the sum of £200,000 to assist in the vocational training of those unfortunate young men, who, owing to the depression and the unemployment crisis, lost their opportunity to he trained in some suitable occupation. I should like to see a larger sum made available and I hope that, in the near future, the Government will see its way to increase the amount. 

 Senator Brown, as is his usual custom, told a very woeful story to the Senate this afternoon. Any one listening to the honorable gentleman, whether in this chamber or on a soap box may get the impression that the people of Australia were in a condition bordering on starvation. Possibly, the honorable gentleman has in mind the conditions in Queensland, hut I can assure him that his remarks have no application at all to the people of New South "Wales. I admit that many people in my State a're not getting so much of even the necessaries of life as they should have, but I challenge his statement that there is starvation in our midst. I give the honorable senator an assurance that if he can bring to my notice one single instance of starvation, within a few hours, if the person concerned is not getting sufficient sustenance, a substantial increase will he available. I do not know so much about Queensland, but I feel sure that the people in that State are in no worse position. 
As I understand ii, the .term malnutrition does not mean an insufficiency of the necessaries of life, bur. the general use of unsuitable food. If the honorable senator had said that the people in any State were underfed, we should have been able to understand his contention more clearly; but as regard to New South Wales, under the  Stevens  Government, I assure him that if any. instance of insufficient nutrition is brought to notice, additional provision for those concerned will be made without delay. 
The Government has been taken to task by the Leader of the Opposition .and his colleagues for not immediately inaugurating schemes for the extraction of oil from coal or shale. Need I remind the honorable senator that five years ago there was a Federal Labour government in power and also a Labour government in office in New South Wales? Did those governments do anything to produce oil from coal?  Mr. Baddeley,  then Minister for Mines, had an expensive and extensive trip abroad to study the problem. He came back and presented a report, but not one shilling was made available by the State Labour Government for the production of oil from coal. The Scullin Labour Government in this Parliament' also did nothing, so it is hypocritical for our Opposition friends to say now that this Government should get on. with the job. The Government has not been idle. It has very wisely made careful investigations, and considered various schemes, and a concrete scheme for the extraction of oil from shale is now about to be initiated. 
Much has been said about the necessity for land settlement. On this important subject our friends in Opposition are well qualified to- speak. Let us consider their record. Five or six years ago the Scullin Labour Government was in office. At that time it practised wholesale " settlement " with a vengeance. Did not Labour politicians then do their best to " settle the man on the land? Did not they " settle " the man off the land ? Did not they " settle " the employer ? ' Did not they "settle" the employee? Did not they " settle " the business man ? Did not they " settle " the unemployed ? Did not they almost " settle " Australia ? And when we consider that only three Labour senators are left here - being the total yield of the elections - are we not forced to the conclusion that they " settled " themselves ? 
The fulfilment of the programme outlined in -the Governor-General's Speech will bring to a conclusion a record of two years' administration and legislation by the present Government of which Australia may well be proud; and I believe that, in the near future, when the people have an opportunity to compare the record of  the Scullin Government with that of the Lyons Administration, they will say to the supporters of the Lyons Government, "Well done thou good and faithful servants. You deserve  well of the people of Australia. Go back and continue the job which you have been doing for the last six years ". 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Allan  McDonald) adjourned. 
I lay on the table the annual report of the Department of External Affairs for the year 1936, copies of which have already been circulated to honorable senators, and move - 
Thatthe paper be printed. 
I should like to take this opportunity to survey some of the more important aspects of the international situation. 1 propose to confine ray remarks to the discussions which have -taken place for a treaty to replace the Treaty of Locarno, the situation in Spain, the joint declaration of the 24th April, 1937, by the British and French Governments in regard to Belgium, and the proposal made by the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth at the Imperial Conference for a Pacific pact. 
During the last few months confidential discussions have taken place between the British, French, German, and Italian Governments as to the conclusion ofa treaty to replace the Treaty of Locarno, hut up to the present it does not appear to have been possible to find a common basis for negotiation. Honorable senators will, no doubt, have noted from reports in the newspapers that Baron von Neurath, the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, was invited to visit London on the 23rd June as the official guest of the British Government. It was hoped that this visit would lead to a relaxation of tension in the European situation, and that it would serve to prepare the ground for the initiation of negotiations which would have as their object the solution of those problems which to-day menace the peace of the world. Developments in the Spanish situation to which I shall allude later have led to a postponement of this visit. It seems improbable that the resignation of the French Prime 
Minister, M. Blum, will modify to any considerable extent the present trend of French foreign policy. 
In regard to the situation in Spain, I emphasized in my statement in the Senate on the 11th November of last year, that since the outbreak of civil strife in Spain, the Commonwealth Government has consistently maintained a policy of strict non-intervention in the internal affairs of Spain. The policy of the Commonwealth Government is, in this respect, similar to that of the British Government. In this connexion, I draw the attention of honorable senators to the speech made by  Mr. Eden,  Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, at Liverpool on the 12th April, in the course of which he referred at length to the Spanish conflict. He said that, from the outbreak of that conflict, the British Government had had two main objectives before it: first, to prevent it from spreading beyond the borders of Spain; and secondly, to preserve, whatever the final outcome, the political independence and territorial integrity of Spain. " I believe ", he continued, "that those two objectives commend themselves to the overwhelming majority of the people of this country. In furtherance of them we have from the first supported the policy of nonintervention. No doubt many gibes can be hurled at the policy of nonintervention. It can be said, and said with truth, that there have been breaches, flagrant breaches of the agreement. Despite the agreement, both sides are using materials from abroad ; despite the agreement there are foreign nationals fighting on both sides. And yet a broad gain remains. The policy of non-intervention has limited, and bit by bit reduced, the flow of foreign arms and men into Spain. Even more important, the existence of that policy and the knowledge that many governments, despite much discouragement were working for it, has greatly reduced the risks of general war." 
The Non-intervention Committee, which now consists of the representatives of 27 European countries, has sat at frequent intervals in London since the beginning of September of last year, and has investigated many allegations of breaches of the Non-Intervention Agreement. The Committee passed a resolu tion on the 16th February, 1937, to the effect that the agreement should be extended as from midnight of the 20th-21st February, 1987, to cover the recruitment in, the transit through, or the departure from, their respective countries of persons of non-Spanish nationality proposing to proceed to Spain for military service. Agreement was also reached for the establishment of naval supervision of the coast of Spain and the Spanish  dependencies.  The British Government, accepted an invitation by the Portuguese Government to observe the carrying out of the agreement in Portugal, and for this purpose to appoint British observers to be attached to the British Embassy in Lisbon. A scheme of observation to carry these measures into effect was agreed to by all governments represented on the Committee on the Sth March, 1937. 
In the early part of April, General Franco, the leader of the insurgent forces, declared his intention to prevent merchant vessels, if necessary by force, from entering the harbour of Bilbao. The attitude adopted by 'the British Government was that, although its policy of affording protection to British shipping on the high seas remained unchanged, and although it did not admit the right of General Franco to establish a blockade on the high seas or elsewhere, it did not feel in a position to guarantee protection to British shipping in Spanish territorial waters in the neighbourhood of Bilbao, particularly in view of the danger from, mines and aircraft. The British Government accordingly advised British ships that, in view of the conditions prevailing in the neighbourhood of Bilbao, they should not enter that port so long as those conditions continued. 
On the 15th May, the Valencia Government, led by Senor Largo Caballero, resigned, and after some preliminary difficulty, a new Ministry - was formed with  Dr.  Negrin  as Prime Minister. Senor Caballero and the other four Syndicalist Ministers were excluded from the new Ministry, which seems definitely more moderate in its political views than its predecessor. On the 26th May, the Italian ship  Barletta  was bombed by Spanish Government aeroplanes, and on the 29th May,' the German warship 

 Deutschland was bombed by two government aeroplanes with considerable loss of life. As a reprisal for this action, German warships bombarded  Almeria  on thu 31st May, and the German and Italian Governments notified the NonIntervention Committee that they had ordered their ships to take no further part in the naval patrol of the coasts which had been allotted to them under the observation scheme until full guarantees had been received that there would be no repetition of such occurrences. _ After these incidents, consultations took place between the British, French, German and Italian Governments. The four governments concerned informed both parties in the Spanish conflict of the steps which had been agreed upon by them in regard to the provision of safer conditions for the continued operation of the naval patrol scheme. They also demanded assurances from both parties in Spain that incidents such as the bombing of the  Deutschland  would not be allowed to occur again. The four, governments intimated that, in the event of any infraction of the assurances requested of the parties, or of any attack upon the foreign warships responsible for the naval patrol, the* four governments concerned would meet as quickly as possible for the purpose of reaching agreement among themselves for joint action. In the event of failure to reach agreement, it was understood that a new situation would be created for each of the four governments in regard to which they must reserve their respective attitudes. After this course of action had been determined, the German and Italian Governments intimated that they would resume their participation in the naval patrol. On the 19th June, however, a German official communique alleged that a Spanish Government submarine had fired torpedoes at the cruiser  Leipzig  on the 16th June. The communique added: "It will now be the duty of the patrolling powers to take the requisite measures in accordance with the recent agreement ". This matter is still under discussion by the four governments concerned, but no definite course of action has as yet been determined. It was felt by the German Government, however, that the- situation required for the time being the presence of the Foreign Minister in Berlin. 
The Spanish insurgent forces have now entered Bilbao, and the collapse of the Basque resistance will, in all probability, have a considerable effect upon the general situation in Spain, although the government forces are still in control of Madrid and the eastern provinces. There does not, unfortunately, appear to be any immediate prospect of the civil strife in Spain coming to an end. 
It had become clear during the latter part of 1936 that the Belgian Government was dissatisfied with the situation caused by the obligations it had entered into under the Treaty of Locarno and the temporary arrangement of the 19th March; this, it will be recalled, specifically kept alive the conditions of the Locarno Treaty as between Great Britain, France and Belgium. On the 14th October, 1936, King Leopold said that the aim of Belgium's foreign policy, on which her defence policy was dependent, must be to keep the country from being involved in war. The re-occupation of the Rhineland in contravention of the Locarno Treaties had almost put Belgium back into its pre-war international status. The general effect of King Leopold's declaration seemed to be that, in the event of any "Western Pact being concluded in the future on the lines of the Locarno Treaty of 1925, Belgium desired to be neither a guarantor nor a guaranteed State. Protracted negotiations took place between the British, French and Belgian Governments during the early part of 1937, .which resulted in a joint Note of the 24th April by the British and French Governments declaring that they considered Belgium released from all obligations towards them resulting from the Treaty of Locarno and the arrangement of the 19th March, 1936. The two governments, at the same time, intimated that they maintained in respect of Belgium the undertakings of assistance which they entered into towards it under these two instruments. They also took note of certain views expressed by the Belgian Government relative to its continued fidelity to the Covenant of the League of Nations and its determination efficiently to organize the defence of Belgium against any aggression or invasion. 
In the course of the negotiations which had been proceeding for the conclusion of a new western security pact to replace the Locarno agreement, it appeared to the British and Trench Governments that Belgium did not wish to give guarantees to other States, and that the other four governments concerned in the negotiations would be prepared to agree that Belgium should not undertake to guarantee other States in the new treaty. As the negotiation of this treaty had been delayed, the British and French Governments had decided to meet the wishes of the Belgian Government to be released in advance from its remaining obligations under the Locarno Treaty. This declaration was favourably received in Belgium, and M. Spaak, in a speech on the 29th April, said that Belgium was in a stronger position than previously since, while dropping some of its duties, it retained all its rights. Belgium, by organizing its national defence, was giving to Europe all that Europe could reasonably ask of it. As the discussions necessary for the achievement of the Western Pact might well he protracted, the immediate solution of certain problems had been sought and found. 
At the Imperial Conference a lead was given by the Commonwealth Government in its proposal for a Pacific pact. The conference noted with interest the statement made on behalf of the Australian Delegation at the opening plenary meeting that Australia would welcome a regional understanding and pact of nonaggression by the countries of the Pacific, and that Australia would be prepared to collaborate to this end with other peoples of the Pacific region in a spirit of understanding and sympathy. This proposal was the same as was announced in statements in both Houses of this Parliament in September, 1936. The relevant passage in the statement is - 
The Government's view is that, so far as the Commonwealth is concerned, the Pacific is the area in which we are most vitally interested in the maintenance of peace. With the United States of America and Japan outside the League, provision for a regional agreement of the particular kind mentioned could hardly be applicable, but the promotion of a regional understanding and pact of non-aggression for Pacific countries, in the spirit of League undertakings, should not be beyond the. bounds of possibility. 
During the discussions on the Pacific andFar- East at the Imperial Conference, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  elaborated the idea that the Commonwealth Government had in mind. He emphasized that international relations should be based on the principle of maintaining absolute friendship with all nations of the world, and he expressed the conviction that any difficulties in the Pacific regioncould be resolved by the method of friendly negotiation. The Imperial Conference agreed that, if such a pact could be made, it would be a desirable objective to pursue as a contribution to the cause of peace and to the maintenance of friendly relations with other nations in the Pacific area. It was agreed that the matter should be the subject of further consultation between governments. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Post master-General,  upon notice - 
To meet the rapidly growing importance of Flinders Island, will the PostmasterGeneral erect or find there a building suitable for a post office, so that the people on the Island may have increased and more efficient postal facilities? 
Seeing that the telephone has become a necessity in every community, will the PostmasterGeneral make early arrangements for telephonic communication between Flinders Island and Tasmania? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Postmaster General supplies the following answers: 
The request will receive consideration. 
Inquiry has been made but, in view of the very heavy expenditure which would be entailed, there does not appear to be any immediate . prospect of the establishment of telephone communication with Flinders Island. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that there is in Australia, and particularly in Western Australia, a serious shortage in the supply of certain sizes of galvanized iron? 
If so, is it known that as a result of such shortage, considerable delay occurs in building construction, with consequent heavy loss to merchants, manufacturers and tradesmen? 
Is it also a fact that the landed cost of galvanized iron imported from Great Britain greatly exceeds that of the locally made article? 
If the facts are as stated above, what action, if any, can the Government take to remedy the position? 
Supplies of galvanized iron throughout Australia are somewhat restricted, but no specific instance in which a serious shortage has occurred has conic under notice.No complaint whatsoever has been received from Western Australia. 
No instance has come under notice in which building construction has been considerably delayed through a shortage of galvanized iron. 
Yes. 
The Government has already taken all steps possible to remedy the position. The co-operation of the Australian manufacturer in the direction of increasing output to the maximum capacity of available plant has been sought, with successful results. In addition, in March last, authority was given for the importation under Customs Tariff By-law at rates of Free (British Preferential Tariff) 15 percent. (General Tariff); of a quantity of 8,000 tons of galvanized iron. This concession has been availed of only to a minor extent for the following reasons: - 
The difficulty in obtaining iron from overseas, except in limited quantities. 
The high price of imported iron when compared with that charged for Australian made iron. 
In fairness to the Australian manufacturers it should be mentionedthat there is a general world shortage of practically all iron and steel products. The price of Australian made galvanized iron is at present below world parity and in the interests of Australian users the manufacturers are making every endeavour to prevent re-sellers exporting Australian iron to other countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that a consignment of 500 Japanese bicycles - first part of an order for 3,000 - will arrive in Australia during the next fortnight? 
Is it a fact that the landed cost of these bicycles is only about 50 per cent, of the wholesale price of the British-Australian article? 
Is it a fact that the importing firm plan to sell 15,000 of these bicycles during the year? 
If so, will he take steps to prevent the dumping of these goods at prices ruinous to local manufacturers? 
The intentions of the importers have not been communicated to the department. 
The matter will receive consideration when the first consignment arrives, and the position is clarified. I have noticed a press statement made by the importing interests to the effect that complete bicycles will not be imported, but that the intention is to import parts and assemble bicycles in Australia in the same manner as existing Australian bicycle builders at present operate. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice- 
In view of the urgent necessity for safeguarding crops in the Cardross and Red Cliffs dried fruit areas, will the Postmaster-General reconsider the application from growers for six automatic frost alarms? 
The matter has received very careful consideration, but, unfortunately, the installation desired is not one which the department could supply and maintain. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
When will the patrol boat, now being built for work in the northern seas, be launched ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question: - 
It is anticipated that the vessel will be completed and ready for service in December. 1937. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
When was the Aliens Registration Act suspended ? 
Why was it suspended? 
Is it the intention of the Government to restore it? 
The Aliens Registration Act 1920 was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1934. 2 and 3. See 1. 
asked the Minister in Charge of Development,  upon notice - 
Since the subsidy to oil-searching companies has been paid what results regarding flow oil have been achieved, if any? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister in Charge of Development has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question: - 
No Government subsidies are paid in respect to the search for flow oil. Advances, repayable under certain conditions, have been approved to four companies. Three other applications have been approved subject to the applicants complying with certain conditions. 
Since the advances referred to have been made, a considerable amount of additional drilling has been carried out in Queensland and New South Wales and careful geological surveys have been undertaken for the purpose of finding structures in which oil could have accumulated. 
One bore in Queensland, in respect of which an advance has been made, is producing 2,000,000 cubic feet of gas per day. The gas contains constituents which are natural to petroleum. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What proportion of the recent Commonwealth loan was subscribed by small investors? 
What was the number of investors who invested sums varying from £10 to £100? 
Subscribers of from £10 to £500 provided 14 per cent, of the total. Subscribers of from £.510 to £1,000 provided 8 per cent, of the total. 
3,294. 
I subscribe wholeheartedly to the Address-in-Reply so ably moved by  Senator McLeay,  and so ably seconded by  Senator Marwick,  and endorse its expression of loyalty to the Throne, and the thanks it conveys to  His Excellency  the Governor-General for his address to this Parliament. The whole procedure of the re-opening of Parliament was without a marring incident, and there is no doubt that  His Excellency  is deserving of thanks, not only for his Speech, but also for the great interest which he has taken in the affairs of the Commonwealth. In his Speech, he mentioned his visit to the various parts of the Commonwealth, and I can assure honorable senators that his visits to some of the most outlandish parts of Western Australia were much appreciated by the people there. There is no doubt in my mind that the appointment of GovernorsGeneral direct by  His  Majesty the King is the best system, because, no matter what cheap sneers may be hurled at the appointment of governors-general from overseas, the fact is apparent to the great bulk of the people of Australia that the system could not be improved. I appreciate the fact that the long line of honorable gentlemen who have been the personal representatives of the King in this Commonwealth have done yeomen work and service toAustralia. Those former Governors-General who are still alive in the Old Country continue to render that service. 
I have every respect for the last occupant of the high office, but he was not appointed by the method which I think is to be preferred. On that point let us agree to disagree. So long as the present system continues, let us resolve that no discourtesy or disrespect shall be shown to His Majesty's representatives. 
The honorable senator's interjection might be appreciated in the Sydney domain, but not in this chamber. Honorable senators generally are agreed that every respect is due to the Governor-General, and, indeed, every State Governor, as representatives of  His  Majesty. It is true that a Labour government in Western Australia secured the appointment of an Australian, in the person of  Sir James  Mitchell, to the high office of Lieutenant Governor. For no man in Australia have I a higher regard than I have for  Sir James  Mitchell, but no Australian occupant of the office can, at the expiration of his term, render at the hub of the Empire the service to Australia that can be rendered by a resident of Britain. 
I agree with the honorable senator. For many years I have been a close friend of  Sir James  Mitchell, than whom, in my opinion, no man has served Western Australia better. I repeat that, in my opinion, the present method of appointing governors-general is the best, and I hope that it will long continue. 
The Governor-General's Speech made only brief mention of the coronation of Their Majesties the King and Queen, but it was long enough to remind us of the enthusiasm and loyalty of the people of the British Empire on that historic occasion. No one who listened to the radio description of the ceremonies could have failed to be impressed by the enthu siasm displayed throughout the Empire. Not only in the large cities, but also in every hamlet, the spirit of the people was the same. To those with names like mine the coronation brought an additional thrill, because of the fact that on the Throne of England there is a Scottish Queen. Honorable senators with such names as Grant, Crawford, Plain or Payne, no less than McLeay, McLachlan and MacDonald, have a special reason to exult. 
When it is remembered that less than 200 years ago there was enmity between England and Scotland, often resulting in bloodshed, we have cause for joy at the union of the two peoples. I, personally, rejoice in the coronation of Her Majesty the Queen, the Lady of Glamis, no less than in that of His Majesty the King, and I fervently pray that they may long reign over a peaceful and prosperous British Empire. 
When the debate was adjourned last night, the Senate had just listened to a spate of praise of the Government because of its achievements during its term of office, and its policy for the future. I desire to add my meed of praise, not only for what the Government has done, but also for what it proposes to do before its present term of office expires. It remains to be seen what will happen before the end of this year, when the electors speak through the ballot-box, but, at this stage, I desire to congratulate you, sir, and the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  on having again been selected unanimously by the political organizations to which you belong to contest the Senate election in Western Australia. Both of you have fought many election campaigns, and, despite the assertion of the Opposition that Labour will win the election, I do not think that you and your supporters will be daunted. It may be that Labour representatives, by continually referring to Labour's forthcoming victory, are imitating the little boy whistling in the churchyard to maintain his courage in the dark. 
I do not know what the position is in New South Wales or Queensland, but I take second' place to no one in gauging public opinion in Western Australia. I say unhesitatingly that, in my opinion, the Labour party is in for a sorry defeat in that State. 
Apparently your name, sir, and those of Senators Pearce and Marwick, will again be in the middle of the ballot paper. Prom time to time, suggestions for an alteration of the present system of setting out the names of candidates on the ballot paper have been made. For some years, I have endeavoured to have a change made, but recent happenings in New South Wales have demonstrated more clearly the defects of the existing system. Ever since the names of candidates have been grouped according to the political party to which they belong, the Labour party seems to have aimed at selecting candidates whose names commence with letters at, or near, the beginning of the alphabet. I do not know that gentlemen whose surnames begin with " A " are more fitted to govern the country than are those whose names commence with " M ". In New South Wales, the Lang party has selected four candidates whose surnames commence with " A " to contest the forthcoming Senate election. To many, the selection is ludicrous; but the position would be still more ludicrous were the names of those gentlemen placed at the bottom of the ballot paper. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.The Lang group in New South Wales has attempted to place a premium on ignorance by deliberately catering for the ill-considered votes of ignorant people. We cannot tell to what extreme these practices might be indulged in if they be not checked. Something should be done promptly to counteract them, and there is nothing radical in the proposal that the position of the names of grouped candidates on the ballot-paper should be decided by lot. In that way every candidate, whether his name starts with A or Z, will have an equal chance with other candidates. 
Zachariah will have as good a chance as Aaron. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Well, the Aarons have had by far the better of the deal for years. Under the present system any grouped names commencing with " M " always appeared in the centre or bottom of the ballot-paper. As my name commences with an " M " my support of the proposal. to alterthe present system is quite impersonal. 
All honorable senators, I feel sure, were pleased to learn from the GovernorGeneral's Speech that the Government is taking definite steps to reconstitute the Inter-State Commission. That matter has been a burning question in Western Australia ever since the lapse of the former Inter-State Commission, of which  Mr. A.  B. Piddington, K.C., was  chairman.  While that commission remained in existence people in Western Australia generally realized that they could appeal to a tribunal, which was much more stable in its constitution than the States Grants Commission, for the adjustment of the disabilities under which they suffer as the result of federal policy. It has always been felt in that State that the decisions of the commission were not exactly just; that it did not understand the position existing in Western Australia as fully as it should. This was due primarily to the fact that no member of that commission was a Western Australian. It stood to reason. therefore, that no matter how earnestly they might try to do their work the decisions of those gentlemen, . because of their lack of knowledge of local conditions, were, to a degree, suspect. For instance, the Commonwealth Grants Commission charged the State of Western Australia with extravagance in respect of its expenditure on public works and social services, when, I suggest, a great deal more consideration of these matters was called for on the part of that body before it gave its decisions. I do not know why the State of Western Australia was singled out in this fashion, because it is common knowledge that, similar arguments can be applied in respect of other States so far as expenditure on public works is concerned. None of the States could he exempted from that charge, judging by their expenditure on public works right down the years. I suggest that Western Australia's comparatively high expenditure on social services is quite understandable when one takes into consideration the huge area of that State and the long distances over which such services have to be administered. These and related matters, no doubt, will be more satisfactorily considered by the InterState Commission, which will be a tribunal of more permanent character than the present States Grants Commission; for that reason, its reconstitution will bc welcomed in Western Australia. I feel sure that Western Australia's representative in the Cabinet,  Senator Pearce,  has had a great deal to do with this proposal. He is fully aware of the feeling in that State on this matter and I believe that, when the history of this proposal is written, it will reveal that he has played a very big part in it. 
With his characteristic enthusiasm, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  spoke against the export of iron ore from Yampi Sound to Japan. I do not know whether the honorable senator has ever visited that Sound. It is not a very attractive place. I assure him that, judging by the activities of some of his political friends in that part of Australia, he need have no worry that the exports of iron ore from Yampi to Japan will reach very large proportions. Members of the Trades Hall in Perth are doing their utmost to prevent such exports. For instance, they made most fantastic requests to the Industrial Arbitrator who sat at Yampi Sound two months ago. He held his sittings on what is known as the  Yampi Scow,  a flatbottomed boat enjoying some notoriety in the locality, and in the early part of the proceedings one of the Trades Hall representatives, in urging consideration of the claims of employees at Yampi, had the temerity to suggest that provision should be made in any award for the employment of shop sign-writers and scenic artists. Several other requests, equally fantastic, were also made to the arbitrator. Thus,  Senator Collings  need feel no anxiety regarding the development of the resources of Yampi Sound. I assure  him that if the activities of his Trades Hall friends can be taken as any indication of future events, the exporters of ore will have to travel along a very rocky road. Indeed, if further equally fantastic requests are made on behalf of the employees at Yampi, who, by the way, are very few in number, the ore export trade will be damned right from the start. The honorable senator's criticism in this respect reminds me of certain arguments used by the Leader of the Opposition in another place and himself in discussing the imposition of sanctions against Italy during the Abyssinian trouble. On that occasion, they wove most emphatic that Australia should do nothing which might antagonize another nation; in other words that we should do nothing to antagonize the Italians in their rape of Abyssinia. Now the honorable gentlemen turns round and urges that no iron ore should be exported from Yampi Sound, fearing, perhaps, that on some future date yet unspecified- 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Yes. Evidently the Leader of the Opposition fears, that' on some future date, yet unspecified, the iron ore may be hurled back at us in the form of munitions. 
That is what I hear the honorable senator say. The statement is distasteful to me, and in my opinion, it is deliberately false. Therefore, I ask for its unqualified withdrawal. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.The Labour party in Australia- 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I am in difficulty in that I do not know whether the statement made by  Senator Allan  MacDonald was in the terms stated by the Leader of the Opposition. Therefore, I prefer to hear  Senator Allan  MacDonald on the point before asking him to withdraw words alleged by the Leader of the Opposition to be offensive to him. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.The Leader of the Opposition is entirely wrong. I did refer to the imposition of sanctions. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD I assure the honorable gentleman that in the course of my remarks just now I did use the word sanctions. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD. The Labour party did everything in its power in this chamber as well as in the House of Representatives to prevent the Sanctions Bill from being passed and- 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD. I certainly did refer to that measure and I now submit that had sanctions been properly imposed on Italy, there would not have been any rape of Abyssinia. 
My difficulty is to reconcile the statements which I heard  Senator Allan  MacDonald make, and the words which  Senator Collings  says he used. I am waiting for  Senator Allan  MacDonald to repeat to the Senate the words which he employed. As I remember that portion of the honorable gentleman's speech,  Senator Allan  MacDonald referred to the attitude of  Senator Collings  and the members of his party during the discussion of a certain measure in this chamber, and I must confess that I did not consider the words used were offensive. But, as the Leader of the Opposition has said, the practice of the Senate has been that, upon complaint by an honorable senator that certain words were personally offensive to him, such words have been withdrawn, even if the  speaker  did not regard them as offensive. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.That is so, but Mount Isa is a Queensland industry, whereas Yampi Sound is in Western Australia. Therefore  Senator Collings,  I imagine, feels more comfortable in his objections to the export of that product from my State. I would, however, impress on the Senate that the pastoralists of West Kimberley districts are deeply concerned in this matter. They are hopeful that the industrial activity at Koolan Island in connexion with the export of iron ore to Japan, may result in the opening up of a reasonably good market for Kimberley cattle in Japan, and the islands to the south of that country. The disposal of their cattle is, at the moment, an acute problem owing to the great distance which stock have to travel to the Wyndham meat works. The pastoralists, some of whom have been on their hold'ings for 40 and 50 years, are anticipating that, before long, freezing works will be established on Yampi Sound, and that their marketing prospects will thus be improved. 
It is futile for the Leader of the Opposition to argue that we should prohibit the export of iron ore on the ground merely that it may be used for munitions. To be logical, he should approve the application of sanctions to the export of nearly all our surplus primary products, because of the risk that wool, for example, may be converted into clothing for military purposes, and our other products into foodstuffs for the use of foreign troops. If this is Labour's policy, and it receives endorsement in the electorates, we . shall effectively close all avenues for the export of primary products. 
I turn now to the consideration of a non-controversial subject, namely,  the  Government's contribution towards the cost of a memorial to the late Captain William Dampier, R.N., at Broome, in Western Australia, and I congratulate the Government upon its attitude to this movement. It is proposed shortly to commemorate the occasion of the first visit of that very robust English sailor to the north-west coast of Western Australia in 16SS - about 100 years before Captain Cook landed at Botany Bay - and his second expedition as a naval captain in H.M.S.  Roebuck,  in 1699. I hope that the Government will be able to synchronize the movement of some of our naval vessels at that time, so that the unveiling ceremony at Broome will be attended with full naval honours. I know that the present fleet movements will be too soon, because the memorial will not be ready for two or three months, but I trust that everything will be done to make the ceremony a. noteworthy one. 

 Senator ALLAN MACDONALD I know, but I do not think that the date of the despatch of the Australian war vessels has been definitely fixed. I hope that satisfactory arrangements will' be made to ensure the success of the function, and thus give encouragement to the Western Australia Historical Society, which was responsible for the movement that led to the erection of the memorial at Broome, in tardy recognition of the exploits of this great discoverer. 
Another matter in which I am interested is the development of the transcontinental railway services. Recently there has been an increase of trains from two to three a week, and I think the traffic warrants a further improvement. Last session I asked for information with regard to the purchase, of six new steam locomotives to be used on the rim, and suggested that it might be possible to substitute streamlined diesel engines for steam locomotives, on account of their cheaper running and faster traction. I was informed, however, that the railway experts had surveyed the position thoroughly before ordering the steam locomotives, and I would now like to know if the Government will make available to hono'rable senators a copy of the experts' report, so that we may know the reasons actuating them in recommending steam locomotives instead of streamlined diesel engines. I hope that the Government will make the report available before the opening of the new section between Port Pirie and Port Augusta. Despite the criticisms of members of the Opposition concerning the need for standardization of railway gauges, and the time which  Senator Brown  occupied in bringing under the notice of honorable senators the huge mileage over which the 3-ft. 6-in. gauge extends, honorable senators will admit that standardization is a colossal undertaking. Even the short distance between Port Augusta and Port Pirie is, in itself, an accomplishment in that it will reduce the time taken on the journey between Perth or Three Springs and Canberra by more than ten hours. 

 Senator ALLAN MACDONALD I am hoping that we shall be able to reap full "advantage of the reduced time occupied in completing that monotonous and tiresome journey. The vessels now operating on the Australian coast are, I believe, equal to any coastal vessels in the world. They are luxuriously equipped, the staffs are very attentive, and everything is done by the shipping companies to attract passengers to travel by water. Unless those in charge of the Commonwealth railway system provide up-to-date railway transport facilities, the huge capital cost of our transcontinental railway system will eventually be a heavy burden on the Australian taxpayers. I believe that the Government will do everything possible to popularize the transcontinental railway as a means of travel, and in that way enlighten many persons in eastern Australia who have not visited the western State. It is not denied that the -section between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle is rather a nightmare to travellers on the transcontinental railway, and on that account I have on previous occasions asked the Government if negotiations could not be opened up With the Government of Western Australia with a view to improving that section of the line. Many desirable improvements could be made, and I believe that if the Commonwealth Government conferred with the State authorities, beneficial results would accrue. 
I deplore the fact that no mention is made in the Governor-General's Speech of the subject of migration. The figures showing the efflux of Anglo-Saxon people from Australia,, especially during the last quarter, are alarming in comparison with the influx of other than Nordic people. We hear repeatedly that the expansion of our secondary industries is an important matter, not only from an industrial view-point, but also because those engaged in them provide the best market for ' our primary products. "We can never hope for a real extension of our secondary industries until our population is greater than it is to-day. The percentage of illnourished children alleged to have been born during the regime of the Lyons Government falls into insignificance "when compared with our low birth rate. I should have been pleased had we been informed that the Government is conducting negotiations with the Imperial Government with the object of increasing the number of Anglo-Saxons coming to reside in Australia. Honorable senators must agree that this subject should be placed in the forefront of any business to be considered by this Parliament. 
I congratulate the Government upon what it has done towards the introduction of a national insurance scheme for Australia. It is a knotty problem on which expert advice is needed. In.  Sir Walter  Kinnear and  Mr. Ince,  the Government has to advise it two of the best experts available, and when the report of  Sir Walter  Kinnear is available, the Government must decide what is best in the interests of all concerned. 
I reassure the Government that it has a very good record to place before the people at the next general election. I have no doubt as to the results of the election in my State. I have every confidence that the people of Western Australia will show renewed faith in the present administration, and no doubt a similar verdict will be recorded in other i States. 
If I were to reply to all of the inaccurate statements made by honorable senators opposite during th« debate on this motion, and to comment on all the points raised in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, I should . occupy Mie time of the Senate for at. least a week. I agree that we  should   have a Governor-General in « Australia, but, . like the Leader of thu Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I am strongly opposed to unnecessary expenditure being incurred by providing more than one official residence for that gentleman. There is no need to maintain palatial residences in cities other than Canberra ; if such extravagance bc justified in the federal sphere the State governments will be justified in having more than one official residence for State Governors. 

 Senator J. V. MacDONALD.Exactly. If residences for the GovernorGeneral were  provided in Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney, and the occupant of that office should decide to reside permanently in Canberra, the other buildings would be left on the hands of theGovernment. 
Paragraph 2 of the Speech reads - 
The public credit in Australia has been maintained at a veil' high level, with corresponding advantages to interest ratesgenerally, while the conversion of our overseas, indebtedness to lower interest rates has been carried on. as  loans  mature, with very satisfactory results. 
A number of our overseas loans have been, converted at reasonably low rates, but others have still to be converted. I give theHigh Commissioner  (Mr. Bruce)  credit for what he has done, but he has certainly omitted to take full advantage of the opportunities available. The Acting; Premier, the Minister for Lands inQueensland  (Mr. Pease)  said after his return from the United States of America, that so much money was available in that country that loans could' be obtained at as low a rate as 1 per cent. That may be a slight exaggeration of the position,, but I remember reading a statement by  Dr. Dalton,  M.P., to. the effect that so' much capital was available in England at such ridiculously low rates that it could almost be said that borrowers could have it for nothing. 
SenatorJ. V. MacDONALD.- It has been published so often that it must have some foundation. If there is little use for money, the rate of interest must be low. The advisers of the GovernorGeneral should have been aware of the fact that money was available at very low rates a year or so ago, and a paragraph to that effect should have been embodied in the speech. Although we have been informed that the public credit of Australia has been maintained at a very high level, 53 per cent, of the Australian loan converted in London last week was left with the underwriters. 

 - Mr. Lang is quite capable of looking after himself. Despite the strong anti-Labour forces participating in the Gwydir byelection,  the candidate supported by  Mr. Lang  and his followers won the election. Apparently  Mr. Lang  has now ceased to be a bogy. Our credit in London at present is not good. I should like the Minister, in the course of this debate, to tell me how much of our overseas debt held in London remains to be converted to an issue carrying a lower rate of interest than is at present payable. It is my opinion that Australia should have taken the opportunity, when money was so cheap in London that the bankers almost appealed to people to cart it away, to convert the whole of its debt. Great Britain converted £2,000,000,000 of its debt in one operation; and I feel, therefore, that we have been badly treated in London. Some honorable senators on the Government side are continually uttering a paean of praise for what Great Britain has done for us; there are certain sentimental reasons why it should help us, but the financial oligarchy in Britain has always looked after itself rather than helped us. 
I do not know who drafted the following paragraph of the Governor-General's 
Speech, but it is capable of a double meaning, and the meaning which I read into it was not creditable to the Commonwealth Government: - 
My advisers desire to repeat that this recovery would not have been achieved as quickly as ithas been without the patriotic cooperation of the people as a whole and the patient endurance of those who were the greatest sufferers from the depression, 
Those people who were the greatest sufferers from the depression did not patiently endure the burdens put upon them. I myself felt that some one had put his hands into my pocket and relieved me of about £400 worth of the assets which I then possessed. Owing to the depression. I suffered what I consider to be robbery. I was brought to the verge of bankruptcy, but, fortunately, escaped it. Thousands of other Australians, however, were ruined. Their murmurings and cries of disgust at the vast thievery which then took place are still to be heard. Of course, " the people " is a wide term, and may include every boodler in the Commonwealth, but the statement that there was patient endurance on the part of the greatest sufferers, the workers, is not true. 
Some space in the Governor-General's Speech is devoted to national defence. I have always agreed that preparation to defend ourselves is necessary, but the attitude of the Australian Labour party is governed by its conception of our relations with the other parts of the Empire. The Labour party is still opposed to conscription and the compulsory sending of Australians overseas to engage in a vast war, about the beginnings of which we know very little. Our attitude follows the British policy of nonintervention in the Spanish civil war, or, for that matter, in the trouble which recently took place in Abyssinia. If a vast empire like the British Empire wanted to take part in every squabble that occurred in the world it would be in a continual state of warfare, and conditions would be far worse than in medieval days, when warfare was. the principal industry of some European States. Australia is obliged to have a protector. It is not big enough in a world filled with beasts of the jungle to defend itself, and, therefore, it needs an alliance with another country. Our first alliance, of course, must be with the British Empire, and failing that, with the United States of America, or finally with some great European power whose ideals are near to ours. We cannot look at the matter of Imperial defence with the same eyes as does Canada, which, as  Mr. MacKenzie  King has said, leans for its defence upon the United States of America, a country which has a population of 136,000,000 and is probably the most powerful single nation in the world at the present time from the point of view of both attack and defence. Since the great war we have been demanding that our rights of self government should not be handed over to the will of any international financial ring which might demand soldiers from this country, even to the extent of conscription. One material aid to Australia's defence is the fact that roughly £1,000,000,000 of British capital has been invested here, which means that Britain's self interest demands that its navy and army shall be available to protect this country from attack and invasion. 
I do not, but I say that that money was not in the first place invested here for the good of Australia ; it, or rather its equivalent in goods, was sent here, merely because the investors were offered a good return for their money. If  Senator McLeay  remembers his history he will know that after the American War of Independence, Britain had to find some place in which to house its malefactors and Australia was chosen. Therein lies the reason why Australia is now a great dominion of the British Empire. Britain now, however, has to care for its own derelict population. 
The Governor-General's Speech pro-,  ceeded- 
Consequent upon a report by the National Health and Medical Research Council, my advisers will take steps to enable the council to function effectively in the co-ordination of research into the causes of and cure for diseases which levy heavy toll upon the community. They will also continue their cooperation with the governments of the States in relation to national health problems. 
I welcome that statement because on the first day of the session I asked a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health - 
Whether it is correct, as alleged to be stated by  Dr. Nott,  ex-Member of the House of Representatives, now of Canberra, "that 40 per cent, of the babies born during the regime of the- Lyons-Page Government are suffering from malnutrition", and if so, what action does the Government propose to take to remove such a state of affairs? 
The Minister for Health supplied the following answer: - 
The statement that 40 per cent, of children are suffering from malnutrition is doubtless a repetition of statements that have been made by some medical authorities. These statements, however, require to be read with their full context, which indicates the degree and the nature of the malnutrition. The Government has appointed an Advisory Council on Nutrition which is now inquiring into this question. The council expects to make its report about the end of this year. 
The Minister ought to have taken more notice of my question, for I knew at the time that the Minister for Health  (Mr. Hughes)  had admitted that 40 per cent, of the children of Australia were suffering from malnutrition. I had  seen in the  Sydney Morning Herald  the following statement: - 
Figures showing the danger of a decline in the health of the Australian people were quoted by the Federal Minister for Health  (Mr. Hughes)  in an address at the Savoy Theatre, Bligh-street, and in a broadcast from 2GB last night. 

 Mr. Hughes quoted medical authorities to show that .most ill-health was due to incorrect or insufficient diet, lack of exercise, and proper hygiene, and he pleaded for cooperation in a national campaign to educate the people so that children might be protected. 
Last year, he said, 084,000 persons received treatment in the public hospitals of the State. It might be fairly assumed that a similar condition applied throughout -the Commonwealth. The number of the insane was increasing. The number of invalid pensioners had steadily increased, and, in 1036, was about 77,000. 
Maternal mortality and morbidity showed no signs of decrease. The death rate of infants under one month remained almost constant at the old high level. According to the highest medical authorities, 40 per cent, of growing children, suffered more or less seriously from malnutrition. . 
Those things have taken place under the Lyons-Page Administration. 
That may be; but it is proposing to proceed along wrong lines. In any case, such conditions should not exist in this country. The people did not patiently endure the results of the depression, as the Speech states; parents knew that when there were no wages coming in it was impossible for them to provide their children with proper food. 
The honorable senator knows well that the Scullin Government did not have a majority in the Senate. He should also know that during its term of office it was fully occupied in cleaning up the mess which it inherited from the Bruce-Page Government. It faced a deficit of £20,000,000, and had to take extraordinary measures to cope with the situation. Those who, like  Senator Herbert  Hays, ask why Labour governments did not take steps to prevent such things from happening, overlook the fact that Labour has been in office in the Commonwealth for only three normal years- between 1910 and 1913. In 1914 the country was at war, and in 1930-31 it was on the verge of bankruptcy. During the latter period the Scullin Government had to take extraordinary steps to keep the ship of State on an even keel. I sincerely hope that the Minister for Health will be successful in his campaign against malnutrition, and that before long he will be able to report that the number of children so affected has been reduced from 40 per cent, to much smaller proportions. 
I agree that in the fresh air of country districts children are likely to be healthier than in congested city areas. 
Even as a matter of sound economics, it is important that we should have a healthy population. As things are, the strong and the able have to support the sick and. the helpless. During the depression I was fortunate enough to have a job, and I know that those who, like myself, were in employment, had to pay for those who were out of work. Under a proper system no one should be out of work. It is bad national economy to have men and women unemployed. 
A proper national economy would pick them up at the conclusion of their seasonal employment, and find other work for them, even if only in making armaments, as is now being done in so many countries. A proper national economy would ensure that work would be found for all capable of performing it. 
I rejoice at the success which attended the efforts of the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey),  the High Commissioner  (Mr. Bruce)  and the Premier of Queensland  (Mr. Forgan Smith)  to obtain a satisfactory sugar agreement for a further term. For each of the next five years, Australia will be entitled to export 400,000 long tons of sugar. Australia's representatives did their job well. 
I give credit to all concerned. As I am not loth to blame the Government for its misdeeds, so, when it does well, I give it credit. 
I agree that British shipping must be protected against unfair competition. Trade routes in the Pacific between Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and other places must be served by British vessels. The unfair competition of the American shipping lines calls for action, and I shall be glad to support any move to counter such competition. 
The Governor-General's Speech contains references to the extraction of oil from coal. I am keenly desirous that, if possible, the deposits of coal in Queensland and elsewhere in Australia should be utilized for the production of oil. At Blair Athol in Queensland, there are said to be 440,000,000,000 tons of coal, and from such a huge deposit it should be possible to extract large quantities of oil. The Newnes district of New South Wales also has possibilities as a supplier of oil from shale, and I hope that the efforts being made there will be successful. Until Australia is able to produce oil in sufficient quantities to meet its requirements, it should pursue a policy of oil storage, so that in the event of supplies from overseas being cut off, sufficient motive spirit to meet our requirements would be on hand. Many people have a suspicion that the hig oil companies  have  been active in preventing the discovery of oil in Australia. Pending success in the discovery of flow oil, I hope that the possibilities of obtaining supplies from coal and shale will be fully investigated. 
Another paragraph in His Excellency's Speech which I should not have written reads - 
After lengthy negotiations with producers' organizations and exporters' ami ship-owners' representatives, my advisers have succeeded in obtaining a satisfactory agreement on the important question of overseas freight reductions. This agreement will bring about a reduction in the freight rates on wool, chilled beef and fresh apples and pears, over a. period of at least three years, amounting in the aggregate to approximately £500,000 per annum. With a view to reducing the costs to shipping, the Commonwealth Government proposes to reduce light dues from 9d. to 6d. per ton on all overseas shipping visiting Australian ports. The State governments have been asked to co-operate with a view to reductions in harbour charges. 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. First, after lengthy negotiations, the shipping combine is persuaded to reduce freights. Immediately that is done, the combine is given a compensating advantage. The Commonwealth Government proposes to reduce light dues from 9d. to 6d. a ton, and the State governments are to be asked to reduce their .harbour charges. I am reminded that Australia once owned its own line of steamers, but the Bruce-Page Government disposed of the vessels at a ridiculously low price. Even that price has not. been paid, and Australia has been " rooked " of between £500,000 and £600,000, apart from interest. Directly that line was sold to that thief and falsifier of balance-sheets, Lord Kylsant, freights on the carriage of Australian produce to London were increased. Those facts are ugly; but they should not be forgotten. A paragraph of this nature, which contains not a word about the ugly side of the matter, makes good reading. The truth is that the shipping octopus has squeezed probably millions of pounds in excess freights out of producers. Yet when we do persuade them to reduce freights a little, this Government endeavours to make the blow as light as possible. It proposes to reduce light dues and to ask the State governments to reduce harbour charges. We might as well give the shipping combine concessions to the value of £500,000, as it will . not be satisfied until it gets that amount. It is a lamentable fact that we have lost sight of the stabilizing value of the line of steamers that was formerly Controlled by the Commonwealth Government, and of how the shipping octopus ran the freights up on Australian produce sent overseas. The establishment of such a line is a plank, not only of the Labour party's platform, but also of that of the Victorian Country party. I believe that  Senator Marwick,  feeinstance, if he were frank, could tell us quite a lot about the exploitation of th.j farmers in Western Australia by the shipping combine. 
Is it not a fact that the Commonwealth Line of Steamers lost £17,000,000? 
Any proposal to establish a 40-hour working week in industry should emanate from the Commonwealth Government. No individual State could undertake such a proposition because, in the absence of any tariff barriers between the States and lack of power on the part of the State to institute essential sanctions within its own borders, it would lay itself open to unequal competition from the other States. It would be very difficult for Queensland, or South Australia, for instance, to proclaim a 40-hour working week and thus compel its manufacturers to compete at a disadvantage with the manufacturers in Victoria and New South Wales operating a 48-hour week. But no such difficulties confront the Commonwealth Government in relation to other parts of the world. 
Can the Commonwealth Government really institute a 40- hour working week in industry? 

 Senator J. V. MacDONALD.Queensland, for instance. That the Commonwealth Government could do tremendous good through establishing a 40-hour week in industry is exemplified by New Zealand's experience in this respect. The Dominion Government, possessing full sovereign powers, has established a 40- hour working week, and in order to inform honorable senators of the benefits which have accrued as the result of that legislation, I quote the. following extract from the Melbourne  Herald: - 
It would be foolish to do so. 
I have not said a single word about the effect of a 40-hour working week on the efficiency, or output, of the workers. 

 - Senator Brennan, who is a distinguished lawyer, will agree with me that it would be industrially difficult for Queensland, as merely a portion of the Commonwealth, to institute a 40-hour working week, but that in agreement with the Commonwealth and other States it can be done constitutionally and without loss to any one single State. Queensland would be foolish to do so without such agreement, because it would thus place itself at an unfair advantage in competition with the other States. 
I have not said anything on that point, and I do not think that  Mr. Armstrong  touched on it, either. I believe that if this Government is returned to office at the next election, it will make no attempt to institute a 40-hour working week, but I say definitely that if a Labour Government is elected it will immediately do so. 
The appointment of  Mr. Abbott  as Administrator of the Northern Territory is another example of the reactionary outlook of this Government, which believes in persisting in methods which, over and over again, have been proved to be futile. I believe that the development of the Territory should be tackled with a measure of imagination and vision on the part of the Government. Great schemes and undertakings have started from inauspicious beginnings; we know, for instance, how Australia was originally settled.  Mr. Abbott  is probably as good, or bad, as any of the score of administrators who have been appointed by either the Government of South Australia, or the Commonwealth Government, during the last 60 years, to control the Northern Territory, but he is only going to do the job in the way that it has been done in the past. Our neglect of the territory has been pitiably exposed in the recent exploits of the Government's patrol boat  Larrakia.  Until a few days ago very few people knew that that boat existed. The Australian Navy has a job to do, but, apparently, is not charged with the care of the Northern Territory. Consequently, to-day, despite all the talk that has been heard concerning Japanese encroachment on our shores, the smuggling of opium into the Northern Territory, the illicit relations of Japanese divers with native women, and the landing of prohibited immigrants, these happenings continue through the neglect of that portion of Australia. To-day, the only vessel we can commission to patrol the thousands of miles of our coastline from Thursday Island to Darwin is a little lame motor boat. The Government's failure to deal with this problem has been accentuated by recent happenings. Yet, some people are so deeply buried in their own prejudices that even this joke about the  Larrakia  has not made them smile. They have not appreciated all that we  have been told by missionary clergymen and others concerning the maltreatment and neglect of the aborigines. These things are still happening at what is, geographically speaking, the front gate of Australia; yet Ministers disregard them. Anyone who has had experience of life in the back blocks realizes that the natural tendency of a man is to get back to the soft spots; as Carnegie said, the Australian population is clustered like flies round a saucer; the centre of the country is practically empty, and the people cluster round the rim. 
The rainfall on the fringe of the Northern Territory is comparatively high. For generations, I repeat, this neglect of the Northern Territory has gone on in the old hugger-mugger way. Instead of continuing with its bungling methods the Government should attempt to develop the Territory by some semi-socialistic scheme. I am not suggesting that a very large population could be supported in that portion of the Commonwealth, but I feel that after occupying that country for 70 or SO years we have no reason to be proud of our achievement, the present white population being not more than 5,000. More effective measures will have to be adopted in future if we are to develop North Australia on a satisfactory basis. 
A national settlement scheme would, I believe, be successful. 
They would not be expected to sit down and twiddle their thumbs, but they should,. I suggest, be encouraged to engage in a number of small industries which in time would enable them to pay their way. 
Cattle and sheep raising could be undertaken. I believe also that the large number of crocodiles in North Australian rivers would support a fair-sized industry in the production of crocodile leather. The cultivation of tropical fruits is another business that might be undertaken. With modern air transport facilities tropical fruits could be marketed in the southern States, andI have no doubt that such an industry would provide a living for a fair number of people. It is evident that all experiments hitherto have been conducted on entirely wrong lines. New avenues of production must now be tried. Attempts to organize new industries could not' be attended with worse results than have been reported in connexion with many enterprises that have been initiated in the 
Northern. Territory in the past. It is imperative that no further time should be lost in initiating new development schemes, because land-hungry people in the East are turning their eyes to the vast empty spaces in the north of Australia. 
To protect the Australian pearling industry the Government has established a base at Darwin for a " lame duck " of a patrol boat which is supposed to prevent 70 or SO Japanese sampans from fishing illegally in Australian waters. These vessels are known to be operating very close to the Australian coast, and the crews whenever they please land on aboriginal reserves and cause much trouble. 
The sparseness of our population is impressed upon me whenever I travel up and down the Australian coast. In some parts there are large areas of poor quality scrub country carrying stunted  eucalytus  forests. The carrying capacity of the poorer class of land is limited, but I am quite sure that the land-hungry people of other nations, including Indians and Chinese, whose standard of living is so much below our own, could make good use of it, and I fear that unless we occupy it more effec'tively, they may one day take possession of it. In the same way the lands of the Northern Territory, poor and uninviting compared with the richer parts of Australia, should be occupied, and a much greater population than 5,000 whites maintained or assisted to hold the country. This is becoming increasingly urgent. 
Of course not. Nor would  Senator Leckie,  I assume. But we have heard the threat that unless we more effectively people our vast empty spaces other races will come in with or without our permission. 
That is the point which I am endeavouring to emphasize. My complaint is that while we have an expensive administrative staff in- the Northern Territory, we are not taking the right steps to encourage people to go there. I make no reflection on the gentleman who was recently appointed administrator, but I do protest against the lack of imagination as evidenced in the Government^ policy, or lack of policy, for the development of North Australia. Hitherto our efforts have been confined to the encouragement of cattle raising, and to a much lesser extent, wool-growing. If the cattle-raisers had their way, the whole of North Australia would be one vast cattle run. As a matter1 of fact they are the greatest obstacle to the more effective settlement of North Australia. The crying need now is for a closer settlement of that vast area. Instead of having a meagre 5,000 whites scattered, over the entire area, we should have at least 50,000, even if the Commonwealth Government had to support everyone of them for a time in semi-military settlements, because they would be doing useful work in defending and policing the country, and eventually the new industries established would enable them to pay their way. 
I have yet to learn that they have left the Territory, although I am aware of the old lie that the employees at the meatworks made so much trouble, that Vesteys were forced to close down their meatworks at Darwin. The truth is that Vestey Brothers did not -wish to keep the industry going in the Northern Territory, but they did wish to keep competitors out. I understand they still have their station properties and meatworks intact. 
My leader has correctly stated the position. Vestey Brothers closed their works at Darwin, not because of difficulty with the workers, but because they found it more profitable to ship meat from Argentina. If all the lies that are told about the Australian workers causing trouble in industry were true, there  would  be hardly a factory in operation in Melbourne or Sydney. ,  lt is unfortunate that, after over a century of occupation of North Australia hy our people, the aborigines there should he practically at the mercy of Malay and Japanese fishermen, simply because the Commonwealth Government has not, up to the present, provided an efficient patrol of our northern waters to prevent illegal fishing by foreign vessels for pearl shell, trochus shell and other sea products. If we had a bigger white population in the country bordering the Gulf of Carpentaria and extending to Darwin, our position would be much more secure. Originally, the native population of Australia was between 300,000 and 400,000. To-day it is down to about 50,000. Something will have to be done by an intelligent government, if that portion of the Commonwealth is to he retained for settlement by whites. In its present condition, it is a menace because approximately 500,000,000 Asiatics in the north are seeking room for expansion. If tlie Chinese were organized by the Japanese in a mass migration movement southwards we should have a major trouble on our hands, because the front door of Australia would be wide open to them. 
That would depend on the type of migrant seeking admission to Australia. During the last few years we have had considerable trouble with Japanese sampans owing to their encroachment on Australian waters. It is high time that the Government entered into negotiations with the Japanese Government with a view to some satisfactory arrangement. Under international law there is nothing to prevent pearl fishing beyond the threemile limit; but since we have only one patrol boat to police the northern waters it is impossible to prevent fishing vessels manned by Asiatics from poaching pearl shell, trochus shell, and other marine products, in our territorial waters. Unless an agreement is reached to restrict their operations, I fear that, in the course of time, our fishing grounds will be exhausted. It has been necessary to take action along these lines to protect the whaling industry in the An tarctic, a portion of which is under Australian control. For many years it has. been the practice of well organized companies in Norway, Sweden and Japan to send mother ships, accompanied by smaller vessels, to engage in whaling in the Antarctic, and so extensive have been their operations that the extinction of the whale was feared. Recently an agreement was reached to limit their operations. We can not dispute the right of Japanese, Javanese, or Malays to search for marine products in waters beyond the territorial limits, but under the conditions which now prevail unpleasant international complications may develop. The Government should negotiate with the representatives of the nations concerned in order to ascertain if some workable scheme cannot be adopted. A veil appears to have been drawn over what is being done in northern waters. While vessels of the Royal Australian Navy are apparently idle, efforts to maintain a form of patrol have been made by a vessel that is unsuitable for the purpose. 
I was surprised to hear  Senator Hardy  refer to closer settlement as if it were a new proposal. Every honorable senator knows that closer settlement has been a pressing problem, particularly in  some  of the States which, for many years, have possessed legislative authority to resume large estates for subdivision purposes. Even before 1890 and 1S91, when I was in touch with those engaged in the shearing sheds of New South Wales, there was a strong agitation in favour of a closer settlement policy. The Labour party has always supported closer settlement, but even before its advent this policy was favoured by the Liberal and Radical parties. 
Has the honorable senator forgotten that the Labour party was responsible for the establishment of the Commonwealth Bank, the introduction of a White Australia policy and also . for passing numerous tariff schedules, all of which have proved of immense benefit to the Australian people?  Senator Hardy,  who  is comparatively new to' politics, insinuated that the Labour party has never ' taken any action in respect of closer settlement; he overlooks the fact' that that party has always strongly supported the policy, and whenever possible, has assisted to give effect to it. 

 Senator Arkins and other honorable senators referred to the GovernorGeneral's Speech as a most comprehensive and pleasing document. The leading article in the  Canberra Times  on the 18th June last, mentioned some of the omissions : - 
There is nothing in the Governor-General's Speech to indicate why Parliament was not summoned earlier. There is no vital legislation that justified delay. The Inter-State Commission Bill has been hanging fire for years. Its introduction coincides strangely enough with the time at which politicians usually decide upon their future plans. An amendment of the Seamen's Compensation Act is no new  thought. The Statute of Westminster is a monument to Government procrastination. Other measures to be submitted are in the nature of machinery bills and the ratification of agreements. The most  important  subject of proposed legislation - national insurance - is mentioned chiefly to explain why it cannot be proceeded with. But the GovernorGeneral's Speech fails to mention several very important matters that have been before the public since the last meeting of Parliament. The Japanese trade agreement, the protection of our northern coastal waters, the question of constitutional reform and the long-awaited report of the Royal Commission on Banking, find no mention. There is brief mention of the Pacific territories, but none of the .Northern Territory, to which the Government found it necessary to appoint one of its supporters during the parliamentary recess. The Governor-General's- Speech, as printed, has required the use of eight pages of foolscap, but two and a half pages are blank. That sums it up pretty well. 
The charges against the Government arc justified. The Governor-General's Speech, which apparently was hurriedly prepared, could readily be attacked from many angles. Even its accuracy could be challenged successfully. Reference was made to a reduction of shipping freights on certain primary products exported from this country. For many years, Australian shippers have been  shabbily  treated by the shipping combine in the matter of freights, and a reduction is long overdue. 
I have studied carefully the tables in the report submitted by  Mr. Ince  on. the subject of national insurance, and so far  as I have been able to ascertain, the benefits provided are not greater than those now available under the Queensland system. Proposals based on tables contained in that report would be unacceptable to the Australian people, because, in many instances, the rates are not in excess of dole payments. 
The Queensland system is preferable. A measure providing for a system of national insurance will not be passed this session, and the subject has been brought forward at this juncture merely for political window-dressing purposes. If the present Government should be returned, which is most unlikely, the whole proposal will again be pigeonholed. The Labour party i3 .'he only party that will introduce a scheme acceptable to those entitled to benefits.  Senator Hardy  and other honorable senators opposite, have- taunted us with the gibe that, although national insurance has been a plank of the. Labour party's platform for 25 years, we have never done anything to put it into operation. I concede that that is true; but point out that our platform also includes nationalization of banking, and the objective of socialism. These ideals are impossible of achievement while the people are against us, as they have been against us for the most of the last 25 years. It is useless for  Senator Hardy,  or any one else, to say that we had the opportunity to institute national insurance and should have done so. The honorable senator knows that we had no such opportunity. For the whole of its term the Scullin Government had a majority against it in this chamber. Moreover, its predecessors had so mis-managed the country that the Ministry was occupied for the whole of that period in saving the nation from bankruptcy and national disaster. The depression into which we had been precipitated had effects on the legislative programme that were akin to those of war. It was no time for social reform. It took the whole of  Mr. Scullin'®  time - and his hair-turned grey in the process - to restore stability to the Common.wealth. The previous Labour government took office almost concurrently with the outbreak of the Great "War. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  was the Minister for Defence in that government, and he had no time to spare for domestic reforms, which invariably go by the board in time of war. 
Yes. Similarly, when a dictator takes charge, the people can say goodbye to social reform. The only changes a dictator makes are designed to give him fuller mastery of the people", and, when he gets it, he invites them to look outside at the devils who are threatening danger. Dictators are continually mouthing " "War ". We see proof of that to-day in Germany and Italy. The only other time when Labour has had power in the Commonwealth was from 1910 to 1913, when it had a majority in both Houses, That government did a lot of good work. For instance, it established the Commonwealth Bank. In the present Government are distinguished men who were members of that first Labour Cabinet, to whom the memory of that time and its events must still be fresh, and who can be proud that they were members of the Labour party. I cannot understand why the Australian people, in 1913, dismissed that government, unless it was because of the traditional fickleness of democracy. It had done splendid work, and deserved an even greater victory than it had had in 1910. I remind the Senate, too, that the field for social reform is far greater now than it was then ; national insurance was not so important then as now. Again, I enjoin the Senate to look at Labour's platform. There are many things which remain for us to do. 

 Senator J. V. MACDONALD I agree that the abolition of the Senate is necessary, and feel that, if a safeguard be needed, it lies in the adoption of the initiative and referendum. The abolition of the Senate would be a logical sequence of the abolition of legislative councils, to which  Senator Pearce  himself was at one time committed. I am afraid, however, that the Senate will outlive me, and at least the majority of my colleagues. The expectancy of life of mankind is about 70 years, and generally a man who exceeds that age is no longer fitted for political work. 
.- The Government has been accused of not having put very much into the GovernorGeneral's Speech, but is that criticism honest? Within the next few months the Parliament will go to the country, and, at this stage, the Government would not be justified in foreshadowing the tremendous programme that it possibly has in mind. Every one knows that in no circumstances could these matters have been given their due consideration in the remainder of the life of this Parliament, and the Government acted rightly in not stuffing the GovernorGeneral's Speech with more than can be digested before the general election.  Senator J".  V. MacDonald occupied one and a half hours in criticizing the Government on the points contained in the Speech. How much longer would he have needed if the Government had had the temerity to put into the Speech the whole of what it has in mind? The present debate has been marked by both extravagant criticism and extravagant praise of the Government. I do not know which does a government most harm. Naturally, in the six years in which this Government has been conducting the affairs of the country, it has made mistakes - it is just as well to admit that - . and some of them may have been ridiculous. By and large, however, the Government has done a good job of work. It dug the country out of a deep hole; placed it once again on solid ground, and restored prosperity much sooner than it has been restored to any other country. Whatever we may think of the mistakes that have been .made, future historians - will record that the Lyons Government undertook a difficult task and accomplished it with success. I, for one, will not deny that the general effect of its policy has been to the great advantage of Australia, and the people should not be quick to forget that. Nevertheless, I. believe that individual members of the Ministry have been guilty either of shocking errors of judgment, or what is equally  bad, have been victims of bad luck. One thing which will kill a government quicker than anything else is the laughter of the people. I do not mean the hilarious laughter of the Opposition whenever it has the opportunity to indulge in it, or the rueful laughter of Government supporters who laugh and say, " "Well, the Government has made a mistake, but we must stick to it." T mean the derisive laughter of the man in the street. "When a government creates that sort of laughter, it is pretty well at the end of its tether. This Government has, by mistaken loyalty to a ministerial colleague, endangered itself. I concede that a Ministry should take full' responsibility for any faults or mistakes of a Minister, but when it justifies everything that Ministers have done, either collectively or individually, it ultimately throws the onus on to the party, which then has to justify everything that the Government has done - although dissenting f rom some of its acts. "Worse still, it creates a bad impression in the constituencies, and gives rise to derisive laughter, followed by hostility. "Whether this result comes from poor judgment or bad luck on the part of one or two Ministers is immaterial; the important thing is that no Ministry can afford to carry a Jonah. I repeat that this Government has done a great job of work, and it will be remembered for it, but I warn it that it can carry loyalty to a colleague to extremes, and cannot presume on the good work that it has done. If it has a Jonah or a passenger it must not try to impose his  indiscretions on the people of Australia. 
As one instance of the sort of thing that creates derision, I refer to the claim made by the Ministry that its tariff policy is responsible for the large increase of the number of employees in the factories. As the Senate is aware, there are more men engaged in factories to-day than ever before in our history. The Government claimed that it was due to its tariff policy. Could any claim be more childish? 
That is what the right honorable senator says. But one or two Ministers have gone further, and said that the tariff policy pf the Government was responsible for putting men back into the factories. The claim is so ridiculous that it creates derisive laughter in the minds of all who know anything of industry. The Government cannot afford to provoke the people of Australia to derisive laughter. I believe that the improvement is due to the general policy of the Government, but not to its tariff policy. 
To some extent that is so, but the manufacturers of Australia have also done their share. They have undertaken new works; they have improved their methods; they are turning out goods of better quality ; and they are providing as much employment as they can. Tariff protection -has been reduced by the present Government, and therefore the Government's fiscal policy could not have contributed to increased factory employment. 
I do not say that the Government claims full credit for the improved condition. 
Whatever the cause, the fact remains that during the regime of this Government, Australia has recovered from the depression and has reached a state of semi-prosperity. 
I welcome the proposed re-constitution of the Inter-State Commission, although I do not know how, in the absence of judicial powers, it can be effective. The commission may help to remove some of the existing barriers between the States. It would be absurd to claim that there is freetrade between the States. In this connexion, I give credit to Victoria for  not having gone so far as some of the other States .have gone in excluding the products of factories outside their own borders. "We are supposed to be Australians, and we profess to believe in providing equal opportunities for all; but a manufacturer in Victoria who wants to sell something to the Government of New South Wales or a municipality in that State, has no , chance of doing so. Similarly, manufacturers in New South Wales and Victoria have not a hope in the world of selling their goods in Queensland. Irrespective of its price, cement manufactured in Queensland must be used in all governmental and municipal undertakings in that State. Moreover, cement required at, say, Cairns must be transported there by rail, notwithstanding that sea freights may be as rauch as £2 a ton less than rail freights. 
Yes, so long as its price, delivered on the job, was as low as that of Victorian cement. 
I am not blaming one State more than another, but am stating a fact of general application to all the States, although I do not think that Victoria is so guilty in this respect as are some of the other States. We should endeavour to he Australians and to give to every one an equal chance, and because I believe th,at the Inter-State Commission will assist in removing the barriers which now exist, I shall welcome its re-constitution. 
I hope that the appointment of the Inter-State Commission will do much to make Australia a federation in fact, instead of a makebelieve federation. 
The Speech contained a paragraph relating to a 40-hour week.  Senator J.  V. MacDonald said that the Commonwealth can introduce a 40-hour week whenever it desires to do so, but his view differs from that of the best constitutional lawyers in this country. The honorable senator said that what can be done  in  New Zealand can be done in Australia, but he should know that conditions in the two dominions are entirely different. I cannot believe that he really thinks that the Government can, by a stroke of the pen, put a 40-hour week into operation throughout Australia. I agree with the Government that this is a" matter for determination by the properly constituted and unbiassed tribunal which already exists to deal with all matters affecting wages, conditions and hours of employment. Its members are impartial men who have been trained to assess the value of evidence. By its awards both employers and employees are bound. No reasonable person wants any man or woman to work longer than is necessary, but, -after all, the national income has its limits. I am amazed at the distrust of the Arbitration Court displayed by those whom honorable senators opposite represent. The Arbitration Court has to-day decided to increase the basic wage by 6s. a week. Surely that is evi.dence that it is an unbiassed tribunal. 
It covers all who come under the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Court. If certain organizations prefer to appeal to State tribunals, they cannot hope to benefit from any increases granted by the Federal Court. The Commonwealth Arbitration Court has done more than show a desire to give to the workers a fair deal ; at times it has erred on their side. For that I do not blame the Court; were I a member of it, I would probably do the same. I mention these things to show that the workers have always had just treatment at the hands of the Court. 
There has been a good deal of criticism of the Government for the delay in bringing in a system of national insurance, but honorable senators generally will agree that full investigation is necessary before an extensive scheme, such as 'that proposed, is inaugurated. For a scheme to he successful, it must have a proper actuarial basis. It may not be generally known that in social insurance and other direct contributions Australia pays more  per capita  than does any other country in the world. "We have beentold that  31  countries have adopted schemes of national insurance, but  27  of those schemes would not be adequate for Australia's needs. The other four countries pay less than Australia pays now for the amelioration of the conditions of the people. 
-Yes. I am not complaining that Australia does pay more; but it must be apparent to the honorable senator that Australia can afford to wait a little longer to put a proper scheme into operation than can other countries which have no scheme at all in operation. Moreover, it is obvious that a contributory national insurance system cannot be superimposed upon State schemes for unemployment relief. There must be agreement between the Commonwealth and States as to how and by whom the money is to be provided. The States must first be consulted before any satisfactory scheme can be introduced by the Commonwealth. 
Another reason why I welcome the reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission is that for some time there has been dissatisfaction with the existing financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. The present haphazard method of dealing with grants to the States, by which the amount varies from year to year, is not conducive to efficient administration. It should not be beyond the capacity of those who control Commonwealth and State affairs to evolve a better arrangement than that which now obtains. It may be that the Commonwealth will vacate certain fields of taxation and leave them entirely to the States, or, should it retain those sources of revenue, that it will hand to the States a proportion of the sums collected. 
Opinions may differ as to whether the Commonwealth Government is really responsible for the proposal, but I am very pleased to see that it intends to assist the States with the object of providing vocational training for boys and young men, now between the ages of  18  and  25,  who missed their chance during the depression. It might be argued that the Commonwealth  Government  is practically exceeding its duty in making grants to the States for this purpose. Nevertheless, it is a commendable gesture and the object in view is a good one. I, for one, do not begrudge the proposed grant of  £200,000,  or even double that amount, to the States for this purpose. Throughout Australia to-day, artisans are being sought after and any worth his salt can get a job, especially in the heavy industries. If many more men were trained in this direction, in a way similar to that adopted after the war, this Government would be doing excellent work. 

 Senator Marwick spoke of the apprenticeship law; he suggested that before a boy became apprenticed he should be allowed a probationary period of twelve months in which he or his employer could decide whether he was fitted for that calling. I do not wish to criticize the honorable senator, because I realize that he was in earnest, but for some years I have served on the Victorian Apprenticeship Committee and have had experience in dealing with thousands of apprentices. Honorable senators can accept my advice for what it is worth, but I believe that it would be a very great mistake to provide for a probationary period of twelve months as suggested by  Senator Marwick.  If such a probationary period were provided for, an employer would have no obligations at all towards an apprentice in that period; he would not be obliged to teach him anything and, if it suited him, he could claim that the youth was unfitted for that particular work and dismiss him. There are some unscrupulous employers who would take advantage of such a provision, and these would readily use a probationary period of twelve months for the purpose of getting cheap labour. In Victoria, the law once provided for a probationary period of six months. 
Sena tor  Marwick. -  I shouldbe satisfiedwith a probationary period of six months. 
-Well, in Victoria, after working on that basis for three years the representatives of the employers and employees on the Apprenticeship Committee unanimously came to the conclusion that six months was too long a period, and induced the Victorian Government to reduce it to three months. We believe that that period is sufficiently long to enable an apprentice, or his employer, to find out whether a lad is fitted for a particular vocation. I point out, however, that the Victorian law provided a safeguard insofar as it enabled the parties to have particular indentures cancelled if, after a period of service, say, up to six or eight months, it was mutually agreed that the boy was absolutely unsuitable. As a warning to  Senator Marwick,  I point out that if a comparatively long period of probation were provided, many evils which he cannot now foresee would creep in, and, as one who has had experience in the handling of apprenticeship matters, I urge him to be very careful before pressing his suggestion. 
Nevertheless, I  happen to know a little about this matter from first-hand experience. 
I compliment  Senator Allan  MacDonald upon the plain  and straightforward manner in which he dealt with the position at Yampi Sound. He approached this matter from an entirely new and interesting angle, and there seemed to be a lot behind his arguments. 
Without any intention to deride them, I shall now refer to certain statements made by  Senator Hardy  in which, contrary to the practice of most honorable senators, he endeavoured to give us something constructive. He suggested that revenue derived from land tax should be devoted to the furtherance of closer settlement, and likewise that revenue from the petrol duty should be entirely devoted to the. construction and maintenance of roads. If that argument were followed  to its logical conclusion, it would lead to absurdities ; if all revenues collected by way of land tax, or petrol tax, were to be expended solely for the benefit of those sections from whom it is collected, then it would be equally logical to suggest that revenue derived from excise duty on beer and whisky should be spent for the benefit of consumers of those beverages. Plausible as the honorable senator's argument appears on the surface, further examination shows it to be absurd. 
In conclusion, I repeat that despite the criticisms that have been launched against the Government - and there have been many - despite its faults and little slips - some of which have been ridiculous - it has done a good job of work, and I do not believe for one moment that the people of Australia are going to be so ungrateful at the next election as to forget that this Government lifted Australia from the depths of despair to its present heights of prosperity.  Sitting suspended from 6.12 to 8 p.m. 
 I commence by congratulating the mover and seconder of the motion for the adoption of the 
Address-in-Reply  upon -the manner in which they treated the subject entrusted to them. Of course, we claim that we provided them with some good material for a speech. We contend that the GovernorGeneral's Speech was an inspiring record of work well done, and of encouraging promises for the future. 
I realize that the Speech is not pleasing to the Leader of the Opposition, but his disapproval, I suggest, is one of the best tributes to its worth. The more he criticizes the Speech, the more certain we may feel that, whether considered as a record or a forecast, it contains nothing that will be an inspiration to him or to his party. My honorable friend dealt in detail with several subjects mentioned in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, and early in his remarks, touched on the subject of loyalty in his accustomed manner. The leopard, it has been said, cannot change its spots. Accordingly, it was not long before we had convincing evidence of the honorable gentleman's real sentiments. They came  out not so much in his prepared utterances as in his unrehearsed outpourings. He displayed plainly that lack of loyalty to existing institutions which is so much a part of his political make-up. I think we can say that, whether in connexion with Australia, the land of his adoption, or in connexion with the Empire of which Australia forms a part, and of which he is a citizen, the honorable gentleman's real sentiments of disloyalty to existing institutions are constantly disclosed. 
I shall endeavour to do so. The second paragraph of the Governor-General's Speech referred to the widespread enthusiasm everywhere displayed in connexion with the coronation of Their Majesties the King and Queen. That I take it was an appropriate reference to be contained in such a document. 
My honorable friend expresses approval, yet his criticism of the coronation celebration, an event of world-wide importance, was that it occasioned considerable expense to the country. 
What are the facts? We know that hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people took part in the celebrations in Great Britain, and I remind the honorable gentleman that those people included the very poorest citizens of London. It would not be too much to say that in proportion to their numbers, the poorer classes of the community were more fully represented at the coronation celebrations in England than was any other section of the people. If thenwe consider the material aspect of the Coronation, what do we find? It is quite true that it cost a great deal of money; but the greater part of that expenditure was for labour, and therefore was of substantial benefit even to the poorer classes throughout Great Britain.  In his attitude to the 'Coronation the Leader of the Opposition displayed a most niggardly and grudging spirit. He complained that money had been expended in doing honour to  His  Majesty and in carrying out in a fitting manner celebrations which are emblematic of our Empire's extent and greatness. That was the honorable senator's attitude to the King. What was his attitude to  His  Majesty's representative?  Senator Dein,  when speaking yesterday, referred to  the  ungenerous remarks of the Leader of the Opposition concerning  His Excellency  the Governor-General and you,  Mr. President,  ventured the opinion that the incident might be considered as ended. 
That is not so. The  President  did not rule that it would be out of order to refer again to the matter, and I direct attention to it in order to compare the honorable gentleman's professions of loyalty with his remarks on Friday last. I go the length of saying that his observations involved disrespect not only to  His  Majesty the King and to the King's representative, but also to the Empire as a whole. 
We on this side do not think it necessary to proclaim our loyalty. We are content that it may be taken for granted. We are proud to be regarded as citizens of the British Empire. 
This being so, we consider it in extremely bad taste for any member of this chamber to refer to distinguished visitors from the heart of the Empire as " imported gentry ", just as we would resent very much if distinguished Australians now in Great Britain were referred to in the House of Commons in similar terms. 
The remarks of the Leader of the Opposition also indicate disloyalty to Australia. The honorable gentleman never gets up to make an important speech without directing attention to what he alleges are the unsatisfactory social conditions existing in Australia - conditions, which, I am convinced, exist only in his disordered imagination. He always pictures the people of this country as being on the verge of starvation, and although this may not be his intention, his speeches always have the effect of stirring up class hatred. They convey the impression that the condition of the poorer sections of the community is due to the rapacity and dishonesty of the richer people. When he came to the references in the Governor-General's Speech to the marked financial recovery that has taken place in Australia, and the improvement in the employment position, what was his attitude? Does he rejoice that the Speech contains such a pleasant story? Not at all. On the contrary, he said that the figures relating to improvement are absolutely and wholly unreliable, and he ridiculed the statement that, the present satisfactory position could not have been achieved but for  the patriotic co-operation of the people as a whole, and the patient endurance of those who were the greatest sufferers during the depression. He does not think that the people, whom he says he is so proud to represent, should have been complimented for the endurance which they displayed during that trying period. 
The honorable senator always takes the most unpleasant view of anything this Government may do, and as regards the reference in the Speech to the attitude of the people during the depression, he says it is untrue, and the worst "piffle" he has ever heard. 
I admit that the figures relating to the improvement in respect of unemployment, are incomplete. I admit that they cover only the number of trade unionists reportedas unemployed, but the basis of computation in 1937 was the same as that employed in 1932, so, as an indication of the unemployment position, the figures are quite accurate, and show that the position has substantially improved. And will the honorable gentleman deny that the people of Australia showed patient endurance during the period of depression ? The Leader of the Opposition on Friday, and his colleague,  Senator J.  V. MacDonald this afternoon, told us that tens of thousands of persons were ruined during the depression. It is quite true, I suppose, that tens of thousands of persons were then in straitened circumstances, and possibly a great number of them have not recovered. Nobody denies that, but it is a plain fact that the people of Australia did, in the depression years, show patient endurance in very trying circumstances. 
I am speaking of what the people did, and I repeat that they showed patient endurance. 
Exactly. There was no disorder, no protest, and no mean attempt to shift the burden on to other people. The sufferers in the depression stood up to their obligations and showed a. most commendable endurance. 
The gaol and the morgue appear to be the honorable gentleman's refuge whenever he wishes to become particularly terrifying. I repeat that, although the people suffered greatly in the depression years, they bore their trials with remarkable fortitude ; so much so, that the casual visitor to Melbourne or Sydney, at. that time, would have found that all the picture theatres had their quotas of patrons; that the races were well patronised, and the football matches had full attendances. In fact, if a visitor had stayed for a fortnight or so in any of our capital cities during those years, he would never have known from surface indications that the people were suffering from a depression. But recovery came in due time, andSenator Collings, with his usual liberality of sentiment, claims that no credit is due to this Government for what has been done. 
The honorable senator said that no credit was due to this Government for the financial recovery of Australia. 
Wi th great respect to the honorable senator I repeat that he gave no credit to this Government for what it had done. I took down his words at the time, so 1 am not mistaken; and I recall that when  Senator Dein  referred to this matter yesterday, the Leader of the Opposition interjected that credit for the financial recovery was due to the Scullin Government. 1 have nothing to say by way of criticism of  Mr. Scullin,  but if he was the captain of the team in 1931, all J. can say is that he was surrounded by a very unruly crew. 
No; but the honorable senator was hanging about in one of the small boats, looking for a position, and hoping to become one of the crew. A great deal of the credit is due to the presence on the treasury bench of the Lyons Government, and its action. I first came into this chamber in May, 1931, and no one, not even my honorable friend who was not here then, could have any idea of the spirit of the depression which hung over these Houses of Parliament at that time. Talk of the fiduciary note issue was in the air, tampering with the currency was suggested, repudiation of interest was being advocated, and political control of the Commonwealth Bank was being sought; the average decent citizen of this country did not know what was before him.  Mr. Lang's  Government was in power in New South Wales. That Government went out of office, and the Lyons Government assumed office in the Commonwealth sphere, and immediately the whole atmosphere changed. 
What I am saying is true. The whole atmosphere changed from the moment the Lyons Government came in ; but more particularly when the Lang Government was removed from office. From that day, conditions have continued to improve. If we are to learn from the past - and it is  the  only way in which we can learn anything there, would be a great likelihood that. similar conditions would return, although possibly not so bad, if the people of this country should, as I have the greatest confidence they will not, replace the present occupants of the treasury bench by the representatives of any other party by whomsoever led. 
I do not propose to delay the Senate further than to make one or two references to matters mentioned during the debate this afternoon. One is the subject of malnutrition, concerning which a good deal was said by  Senator J.  V. MacDonald and  Senator Brown,  and the other is the 40-hour week, which was dwelt upon at some length by the former honorable senator. In respect of malnutrition, he has used out of their context some remarks which were said to have been made by the Minister for -Health  (Mr. Hughes). 
Possibly a correct report. But I should like to remind the honorable senator that the powers of the Commonwealth Parliament in respect of health are strictly limited. The only reference to health matters contained in the Constitution is to be found in the one word "quarantine". If the right honorable the Minister for Health cited on the public platform certain figures relating to health, it wa3 not by way of complaint that the Commonwealth Parliament has failed in its duty, but was because he desired to direct the attention of State governments  to  a serious aspect of a matter which comes within their purview. 
In regard to the 40-hour week, also, the Commonwealth Parliament has very limited authority; it has no general -powers in respect of hours of labour. The only jurisdiction it possesses is that which is conferred by the industrial arbitration provision in the Constitution. The Arbitration Court has certain Australia-wide powers, but the Government does not control the Court, nor was that ever intended. One of the main purposes in setting up an Arbitration Court was that it should be independent of governments; and it is. The Arbitration Court can deal only with disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State, and can deal only with plaints brought before it. Let me remind honorable senators opposite that there has been no great desire during the last few years on the part of their friends to bring before the Arbitration Court the subject of a 40-hour week. They have not ventured to go to the Court and say, " We think that we are entitled to a 40-hour week in this industry." 
Sen  ator  J. V. MacDonald said that if the Labour party were returned to power, it would bring in a 40-hour week. If my honorable friends of the Opposition were vested with the responsibility in regard to hours of labour and they examined what their powers were, their gallantry would soon disappear; they would realize that they had not the powers which they thought they possessed. No doubt the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  would attempt to ride through the Constitution, but he would be prevented from doing so by the High Court. 
We have either to ride through it or obey it. We are obeying it in this instance. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that we should not obey the Constitution? I should like him. to state his attitude. 
We plead it as an excuse for not doing something, which' some honorable gentlemen who should,but do not, understand the Constitution, say that we can do. 

 - Senator J. V. MacDonald instituted a comparison between the action taken by the New Zealand Government and the attitude adopted by the Commonwealth Govern ment. That point has been adequately replied to by  Senator Leckie,  and I can only express my astonishment at the suggestion of  Senator J.  V. MacDonald. Surely, he realizes the difference between a unitary constitution such as in New Zealand, where the Parliament has power over all subjects whatsoever, and a limited constitution like that of the Commonwealth, in section 51 of which the powers of this Parliament are strictly denned. 
The Commonwealth Government can provide a 40-hour week for its own employees. 
If the States surrendered their powers in that respect that would be a drastic amendment of the Constitution. The people of Australia have always shown that they will not readily agree to amend the Constitution. 
That raises the subject of national insurance, which is too comprehensive a question to be dealt with at this juncture. It was discussed at length this afternoon. Its mention in the Governor-General's Speech was not mere window-dressing. The subject requires a great deal of investigation, not only by the electors, but also by the State governments. We do not expect for a. moment that a national insurance scheme will be passed during the life of this Parliament, but certain details based on the report of  Mr. Ince,  which is now before honorable senators, have been made available, so that they may be studied. If such a system can be effectuated on the lines indicated by  Mr. Ince,  I believe, in spite of the sneering references of  -Senator J.  V. MacDonald to an allowance of 17s. a week during unemployment, that it would be a tremendously beneficient thing for the people of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[8.29].- I move- 
That  the  bill be now read a  second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to provide for the re-constitution of the Inter-State Commission, and to define its powers. Section 101 of the Constitution, which requires the establishment of an InterState Commission, reads - 
There shall be an Inter-State Commission, with such powers of adjudication and administration as the Parliament deems necessary for the execution and maintenance, within the Commonwealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating to trade and commerce, and of all laws made thereunder. 
The appointment and tenure of members of the commission is dealt with in section 103 of the Constitution, which provides that - 
The members of the Inter-State Commission - 
Shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral in Council; 
Shall hold office for seven years,but may be removed within that time by the Governor-General in Council, on an address from both Houses of the Parliamentin the same session praying for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity ; 
Shall receive such remuneration as the Parliament may fix; but such remuneration shall not be diminished during their continuance in office. 
Other provisions of the Constitution relating to the commission are to be found in sections 102 and 104 which deal with preferences and discriminations on State railways, and in section 73 which gives the High Court jurisdiction to hear appeals from orders, &amp;c, of the commission, but as to questions of law only. 
These provisions contemplate the passage of legislation by Parliament before the commission would be properly equipped for carrying out the important functions which the framers of the Constitution intended it to have. Accordingly, in 1912 the Inter-State Commission Act was passed. This act, in addition to providing for such matters as the qualifications and salaries of members of the commission, set out the classes of investigations the commission was charged to undertake. Part V. of the act purported to confer judicial powers on the commission, and it was because of this part that the commission was shorn of very great powers within two years after it commenced to function. I shall refer to this matter later. 
On the 11th August, 1913, the original commission came into being with the appointment of  Mr. A.  B. Piddington, as  chairman,  and Messrs. Swinburne and Lockyer as members. The commission forthwith proceeded to investigate, under instructions from the Commonwealth Government, the effect of the tariff acts then in force. Other inquiries undertaken by the commission included investigations of the price of commodities and the trade relations of. Australia with the islands of the Pacific. While the commission was engaged on  the inquiry into the tariff acts, complaints were made to it that the Government of New South Wales, by seizing certain parcels of wheat which were the subject of inter-State trade, had contravened the provisions for inter-State freetrade contained in section 92 of the Constitution. The commission, in pursuance of its purported judicial powers, investigated the complaints and found, by .a majority, that the Wheat Acquisition Act 1914 of New South Wales, by virtue of which the State government seized the wheal, was invalid as being an infringement of section 92. The Government of New South Wales appealed to the High Court against this decision. By a majority judgment the High Court held that section 101 of the Constitution - the section creating the commission - did not authorize the Parliament of the Commonwealth to constitute the commission a court, or to give to it judicial powers, or to confer upon it the general power to restrain contraventions of inter-State trading rights. The High Court also held that Part V. of the act, which dealt with the judicial powers of the commission, was beyond the power of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
* The result of the wheat case was that all control or regulation or execution or maintenance of the commerce provisions of the Constitution or of laws made under it were removed from the commission. In 191S, Commissioner Swinburne resigned and upon the conclusion of the term of appointment of the other commissioners in 1920, no re-appointments or further appointments were made and the Inter-State Commission ceased to function. Some of the duties originally assigned to the commission have from time to time been carried out by other bodies and royal commissions. For instance, the Tariff Board now carries out inquiries with regard to tariff matters. 
As I have already pointed out, the establishment of the commission is provided for in the Constitution itself. In the words of that learned constitutional writer -  Sir John  Quick - the Inter-State Commission was " one of the fundamental and basic institutions of the federal system ". The Royal Commission on the Finances of Western Australia as affected by federation expressed the view that 
Parliament could not continue to ignore the constitutional requirement that a commission be appointed. The report stated on page  lix- 
Tlie creation of an Interstate Commission is one of the terms of the federal partnership agreement. It is in the bond. 
The royal commission appointed to inquire into the finances of South Australia also recommended the reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission or the establishment of an independent body for a limited period for the purpose of considering and advising on applications for grants to States. The Commonwealth Grants Commission is, of course, a body similar to that mentioned in the alternative recommendation of the royal commission, but the proposed functions of the Inter-State Commission will be much more extensive in scope than those of the Grants Commission. In recommending the re-constitution of the Inter-State Commission, the Royal Commission on the Constitution dealt in some ' detail with the functions with which the commission could be entrusted. I refer honorable senators to pages 249-250 of the royal commission's report. Referring to section 102 of the Constitution by which it is provided that no preference or discrimination by any State with respect to railways is to be taken to be undue and unreasonable or unjust to any State unless so adjudged by tlie Inter-State Commission, the royal commission stated - 
Although preferences or discriminations by means of freights on railways have to some extent been adjusted by agreement among the railways commissioners, we think that there is still need for some supervision over freights designed to attract goods from their natural geographic or economic outlets. 
The royal commission proceeded to point out that many important duties might be carried out by an Inter-State Commission in addition to those mentioned in the Constitution and in the act of 1912. It instanced grants to States as- a matter which could be undertaken and expressed the view that - 
A permanent body should be established which should continuously watch the effect of federal laws and administrative machinery on the various States, and should be in a position to advise, either with or without a special inquiry, whenever applications for grants are made to the Commonwealth. 
Professor Hancock, of the University of Adelaide, states in his hook  Australia  that there is an urgent need to  reestablish  the commission or else to set up some other body fit to act in the matter of assistance to States as " eyes and ears of Parliament " to use the words of Alfred Deakin. 
There is thus a considerable body of well informed opinion in support of the proposal for the reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission or some such  body,  and having regard to the requirements of the Constitution, the Government believes that the commission will serve a valuable purpose in dealing with large questions affecting the relations between the Commonwealth and the States and between the States themselves. As to the latter class of questions, matters of considerable importance in relation to the effect of State legislation on interstate commerce have in the past been litigated in the High Court between the States, and it is conceivable that similar problems will arise in the future. Questions of fact are usually involved in these problems and it may well be that the commission could investigate and report on such questions. 
With the re-constitution of an InterState Commission, a body will be in existence to act as a standing commission of inquiry to which could be referred many of the matters now entrusted to royal commissions and similar bodies. There arc many advantages in having a permanent investigating body adapted to undertake inquiries and make reports as to 'matters upon which the Parliament may bc asked to legislate. The availability of information and recommendations of an independent body such as the commission would prove inestimable in the consideration of the many important problems that confront the Commonwealth Government and would greatly facilitate the work of the Parliament itself. I think it will be agreed generally that it is essential to the proper carrying out of administrative and governmental functions that the authority upon whom responsibility rests for making a decision should he possessed of the best available information and the arguments for and against a particular course of action. At present the Commonwealth Government has the advantage of the reports of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, the Tariff Board, and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, besides the assistance of the staffs of the various public departments in dealing with problems presented for its consideration. 
Several suggestions were made before the Royal Commission on the Constitution during 1927 and- 1928 as to the class of inquiries that the commission might be asked to undertake. For instance, it was suggested that it could inquire into laws which place some States at a disadvantage as compared with others. These laws may not, perhaps, infringe the Constitution, and, in consequence, it would not be possible to have them considered by judicial bodies such as the High Court. The commission could, however, consider the effect of such laws and, having at its disposal all the machinery for obtaining evidence, it may be expected that such matters would receive very full consideration; moreover, the evidence would be so sifted that a government which had to consider the matter could confidently accept the facts found by the commission as the basis for legislative or other action. 
The proposed commission would necessarily require the services of an expert staff to obtain and collate information under the direction of the commission. As time goes on, a trained investigation staff would be developed. This staff would be recruited largely from the Public Service. At the present time, skilled assistants are made available to royal commissions. These assistants are largely drawn from the Commonwealth Public Service, and, upon the completion of the work of a royal commission, return to their respective departments. As the result of their association with a royal commission, these public servants not only obtain much useful information concerning the subject under inquiry, but also receive a valuable training in the methods employed by the commission in pursuing its investigations and making its reports. Now, this training, although of great use to an officer in his subsequent duties in his particular department, is of a character which could be used to greater advantage if the officer were continuously employedupon duties of an investigatory nature. It is obvious, I think, that the continued employment of such officerswith the commission will result in the conservation and coordination of the efforts of these trained officers, and the commission would thus have at its disposal men to whom it could confidently entrust the duty of compiling, collating, and dissecting reports, statements, statistics, and accounts, assisting in the preparation and indexing of reports, and duties of a like nature. 
I come now to the provisions of the hill itself. In the first place provision is made for the appointment of three commissioners, who are to constitute the commission. One of the commissioners will be appointed  chairman,  and will receive a salary of £2,500 per annum. The salary of each of the other commissioners will be £2,000. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the commissioners will be appointed for a period of seven years, and may not be removed from office except by the GovernorGeneral on an address from both Houses of the Parliament praying for removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity. One of the commissioners, not necessarily the  chairman,  must have been a justice, judge, barrister or solicitor. It is inevitable that inquiries into certain matters, possibly of an ancillary character, must be made that might not warrant the whole commission undertaking a long journey. Provision has therefore been made for the commission to delegate an inquiry to one of its members, but the member conducting such an inquiry must report his conclusions back to the full commission. 
The general powers of the commission are set forth in clause 18 of the bill, which reads as follows :  - 
(1.) The commission shall inquire into and report to the Governor-General upon - 
any anomalies, preferences or discriminations alleged to exist in relation to inter-state commerce; 
any alleged contravention of the provisions of the Constitution relating to inter-state commerce; 
applications made by any State to the Commonwealth for the grant by the Parliament of financial assistance in pursuance of section ninetysix of the Constitution ; 
any matters relating to grants of financial assistance made in pursuance of that section by the Parliament to any State which are referred to the commission by the Governor-General ; 
any matters, relating to the making of any grant of financial assistance by the Parliament to any State in pursuance of that section, which are referred to the commission by the Governor-General ; 
any matters concerning the financial relations between the Commonwealth and any State; and 
any other matters, whether related to any matter specified in the preceding paragraphs of this section or not, which the Governor-General refers to the commission. 
Honorable senators will see that in these provisions there is no restriction of the grounds upon which a State may base its application for a grant for financial assistance. A State may choose its own grounds, and present to the commission evidence supporting its request upon those grounds. There is no narrowing of the grounds upon which a State may base its applications; they may be as wide as the State may care to make them. 
Honorable senators will observe that these powers consist of powers of investigation and report. So far as matters relating to trade and commerce are concerned - and these are the matters for which the establishment of the commission is necessary - the investigation may be instituted upon either reference by the Governor-General or the complaint of any State. The commission will then proceed to make investigations, and will report its conclusions to the GovernorGeneral, after which any action which may be necessary to give effect to its findings, whether that action be of a legislative, judicial or administrative character, may then be taken by the Commonwealth. 
In addition to the investigation of matters relating to trade and commerce, it is also proposed that the commission shall assist the Commonwealth, and obviate the expense of establishing other tribunals, by inquiring into and reporting on certain other matters. These matters are set forth in paragraphs  c  to  g  of clause 18. Honorable senators will recognize in paragraphs  c, d  and  e  the matters at present within the scope of the Commonwealth Grants Commis- sion. In consequence of the proposed transfer of functions, it will be no longer necessary for that body to continue to operate, and provision is made in the bill for the repeal of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1935, together with that portion of the Port Augusta to Port Pirie Railway Act which amends the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act. 
Paragraph / relates to any matters concerning^ the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States - not merely to the making of grants by the Commonwealth. Important questions relating to the financial relations of the Commonwealth and States are likely to arise from time to time, and it may frequently be of material assistance to the Commonwealth to have such questions fully investigated by an impartial and independent tribunal such as the InterState Commission. 
Paragraph  g  empowers the commission to investigate" and report on any other matter referred to it by the GovernorGeneral. . This power may frequently enable the Commonwealth to avoid the expense of establishing a royal commission to inquire into a particular matter. 
Part IV. exercises the power conferred on the Parliament by section 102 of the Constitution to forbid the giving of unfair preferences by a State by means of railway rates. This power is conferred subject to the provision that no undue preference shall be deemed to exist unless first adjudged so by the Inter-State Commission. Although the functions of the commission under this part are merely to investigate and report, the actual proceedings will be, in effect, something more. The investigation will he in reality the first step in legal proceedings to restrain. The Commonwealth, a State, or any of the several local authorities and associations enumerated in clause 23, may make complaint to the commission that a State railway is giving unfair preferences. The commission may then investigate the matter and report to the GovernorGeneral . 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes ; under its general powers of inquiry. If the report disclosed that the complaint was well founded, the AttorneyGeneral might then take the necessary legal proceedings in the High Court to restrain the State concerned from continuing the unfair preference. The saving provisions of sections 102 and 104 of the Constitution, which provide that, in determining whether there is an unfair preference, regard shall be had to the financial obligations incurred by the State in connexion with the railway and to the necessity for developing territory in a State, are preserved in the bill. 
In connexion with inquiries  hitherto  held by the Commonwealth Grants Commission, provision is made for the report of the commission to be tabled before the Parliament before any proposed law to give effect to the report is introduced. A similar provision appears in the bill. All other matters will necessarily be included in the annual report of the commission, and that is required to be tabled within fifteen sitting days after its receipt by the Governor-General. 
The usual provisions are made empowering the commission to compel the attendance of witnesses arid the production of documents and to take evidence on affirmation or oath. As a rule, evidence is to be taken in public, but where it is desirable in the public interest so to do, the commission may take the evidence in private. Where the evidence relates to trade secrets, or to the profits or financial position of any witness or party, the evidence must, if a request be made, be taken in private. Provision is also made for the protection of witnesses from any retaliatory action by an employer or any one else. 
Such, in outline, are the  prinicipal  features- of the bill; but, before concluding, I desire to refer Once again to the provision relating to the initiation of inquiries on, the complaint of any State. In this right of initiation, the States are to be given a very real power to bring before the public notice any anomalies, . preferences or . discriminations alleged to exist in relation to interstate commerce. It is real in the sense that any State which feels that it is .being unfairly affected by Commonwealth legislation as to trade will have a statutory right to bring its complaint before an independent body empowered to investigate the complaint and report the result of the inquiry to the Governor-General. The inquiry would normally be conducted in public, and a State would not be hampered in any way in the full presentation of its complaints to the commission. No Commonwealth government would be so unmindful of its responsibilities as not to give earnest consideration to any recommendations of the commission. If the commission had no other function than to inquire into and report on the complaints of States, its re-establishment would be amply justified. It is a great hindrance to the healthy development of a State for either its government or its people to labour under a sense of injustice resulting from the operation of Commonwealth legislation or policy. If a grievance is well-founded, it is desirable that it should be communicated to the authority capable of remedying it. The bill provides machinery not only for the making of the complaint, but also for its investigation by a body other than the authority empowered to remedy any grievance that is the subject of the complaint. 
In commending the bill to honorable senators, I therefore ask them to bear in mind, in the first place, that tlie Constitution requires that there shall be an Inter-State Commission, and, secondly, that there is abundant scope for the exercise by the commission of its proposed powers of inquiry into matters deeply affecting the smooth working of the Constitution. 
The States, secure in the knowledge that their grievances will be entrusted to a body in which they can repose their trust, will be in a position to proceed to carry out their policies for the betterment of the peoples within their respective jurisdictions, and to co-operate more contentedly in the great work which the Australian people set themselves to do when they federated in 1900. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
[8.55]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a  second  time. 
Australia is a party to an International Convention for the amelioration of the condition of the wounded and sick in armies in the field, signed at Geneva on the 27th July, 1929. 
This convention, which is popularly referred to as the Geneva Convention, came into force, so far as Australia is concerned, on the 23rd December, 1931, six months after the deposit of the' instrument of ratification. 
The convention is concerned with the treatment of the wounded and sick of combatants in time of war. The protection of medical staffs and buildings and equipment is also provided for. In order to assist in the protection of the medical services' of armed forces, the convention makes provision for a. distinctive emblem by which such services may be readily differentiated from the combatants. This emblem, namely, a red cross on a white ground, may figure on flags, armlets and material belonging to the medical services with the permission of the competent military authorities. Under Article 24 of the convention, the emblem of the red cross on ' a white ground and the words "Bed Cross", or "Geneva Cross" are not to be used in times either of peace or of war, except to protect, or to indicate the medical formations and establishments and the personnel and material protected by the convention. Certain voluntary aid societies may use, in accordance with local law, the red cross in. connexion with their humanitarian activities in time of peace. 
With a view to protecting the red cross from being used in circumstances other than those permitted under the convention, Article 28 requires the governments of the high contracting parties whose legislation is not at present adequate for the purpose to take the necessary legislative measures to prohibit, in certain circumstances, the use of the red cross and the arms of the Swiss Confederation and imitations thereof. Clause 4 of the bill sets out the circumstances in which the red cross and those arms are not to he used. It provides that a person shall not, without the authority of the Minister, use for the purposes of his trade or business, or for any other purpose whatsoever, the red cross, the words " Red Cross ", or " Geneva Cross ", or the federal colours of Switzerland. 
The convention referred to is not the first one dealing with the protection of the red cross and the words "Red Cross" or " Geneva Cross ". A convention dated the6th June, 1906, also dealt with this matter, and legislation to ensure this protection was enacted in the United Kingdom in 1911. The Geneva Convention Act. of 1911 applied throughout  His  Majesty's dominions. That act and the convention of 1906 do not, however, cover the protection of the arms of the Swiss Confederation, nor imitations of the red cross, which matter is dealt with in Article 28 of the new convention. The Parliament of the United Kingdom recently passed an act to enable effect to he given to Article 28. That act is limited in scope, because of the existing legislation of 1911, which covers several of the matters dealt with in Article 28. It is not proposed that this measure shall be extended to the Commonwealth, and in order to make it quite clear that the Commonwealth has the necessary power to enact legislation to give effect to Article 28 a special provision - section 2 - was inserted in the British act. Section 2 also enables the Commonwealth Parliament to enact that the act of 1911 shall cease to extend to the Commonwealth and its Territories. Accordingly, the present hill deals with all the matters referred to in Article 28 of the convention, and provides for the termination of the extension of the 1.911 act to the Commonwealth and the Territories of Papua and Norfolk Island. 
In effect, the bill docs no more than provide for the protection, in so far as Australia and the Territories are concerned, of the colours of the Swiss Confederation and imitations of the red cross. This being its object, I confidently commend the measure to the favorable consideration of honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
. -I move - 
That thebill benow read a second time. 
This bill is designed to give control over the importation and exportation of that group of medical remedies which are known under various names but which may be brought together under one general description as substances of biological origin. Perhaps the two most familiar of these substances are diphtheria anti-toxin, us an example of a substance prepared by bacterial action, and insulin, as an example of a substance prepared from animal glands. These two will serve to indicate the type of remedies, the control of which is contemplated by the bill. 
It is obviously necessary that these substances shall comply with the following basic requirements: - 
they shall be true to a determined standard, that standard having an official and legal status ; 
they shall be free from contaminations, more especially from bacterial contamination ; 
they must be properly and safely packed ; and 
they must be accurately labelled as to dosage. 
All of these are obvious and necessary precautions for the sale of these remedies, which are not like ordinary chemicals, prepared in the mass according to wellrecognized processes, but, being prepared from living tissue or from the actionof bacteria, are more sensitive and require more delicate methods of analysis. An official standard for the composition and quality of these remedies has been the subject of a great deal of laboratory investigation which has resulted in the formulation of international standards laid down by a committee especially appointed for this purpose by the League of Nations. It has notbeen possible to take action earlier as these standards have only recently been formulated. They are now being rapidly adopted by the principal countries and the bill is designed to enable the Commonwealth to fall into line with other countries in adopting these standards for therapeutic substances and prescribing the necessary precautions in respect of their manufacture, transport, and sale. 
The ambit of the' bill is limited to imports and exports and follows closely on the lines of English legislation dealing with the same subject. There will be complete reciprocity between countries, so that these substances prepared under official supervision in, for example, England and America, will be recognized on arrival in Australia, and, similarly, preparations exported from Australia' will be recognized in importing countries. The bill provides simple machinery giving the Minister power to license importers so as to give an official supervision over the channels of importation Hnd to supervise the preparation of these substances for export. Provision, is also made in respect of the necessary analyses to determine whether the dosage as prescribed on the label adequately represents the strength of the preparation so labelled. There is complete accord on this ma' f,er between the Commonwealth and States, the State representatives on the Federal Health Council having recognized that such action should lie taken; and it is anticipated that this lead given by the Commonwealth will b8 followed by State regulations, so that the system will be uniform and include imports and exports and preparations manufactured within Australia, in respect of which the same standards will be recognized by all authorities. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
Senate adjourned 'at 9.5 p.m. 
 by leave  - I inform honorable senators that advice has to-day been received from the Australian Delegation at the 23rd Session of the International Labour Conference in Geneva that the Conference adopted a draft convention applying the principle of the 40-hour week, with maintenance of the standard of living, to the textile industry; out rejected similar proposed conventions  in  connexion with (a) printing and kindred trades, and (&amp;) the chemical industry. The existing conventions concerning the minimum age for industrial and nonindustrial employment  were  revised so as to raise the age from fourteen to fifteen years, subject to certain excep tions and special provisions modifying the convention in favour of Japan and India, for which a lower age is prescribed. Finally, the Conference adopted two recommendations relating to international co-operation in connexion with the timing of all works undertaken or financed by public authorities. 
The instructions issued by the Commonwealth Government to its delegate at the Conference in regard to the proposed conventions for the reduction of hours of work were as follows: - 
The constitutional position of the Commonwealth and of the Australian States in relation to determining hours of work is that the Commonwealth canlegislate only as to the working hours of its own employees and also for the setting up of a Court of Conciliation and Arbitration tor the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond thelimits of one State. In all other respects the industrial powers belong to the State Parliaments. 
In a few isolated cases StateParlia- ments have passed laws directly regulating hours, but, in substance, the industrial policy ofAustralia has been to set up tribunals with compulsory powers and toleave it to those tribunals to fix, within the limits of their jurisdiction, wages and working hours and conditions generally. 
The people of Australia have repeatedly approved of this policy which enables industrial problems to he dealt with on their merits and after adequate inquiry. 
The Commonwealth Government adheres strongly to this policy, which it regards as of vital importance to both employers and employees, and which has in fact been the means of effecting steady reductions in the working week as circumstances justify them, until at present the average working week in Australia is approximately 45 hours. 
While it is satisfied that the Australian system of independent industrial tribunals and its policy of enforcing their decisions should be continued, the Commonwealth Government agrees that the adoption of an international standard of working hours in respect of particular industries would be most desirable, provided, of course, that it was international in the sense that it commanded the adherence of the majority of competing countries, and provided further that  it was actually effectuated by those countries. It would, accordingly, be prepared to co-operate in any manner within its limited powers in any agreement having such an objective, though it thinks it proper to point out that the differences between industrial workers and those engaged in country industries present problems of great complexity, some solution of which must accompany any measures taken to bring about an all-round reduction of the hours of industrial workers. 
Subject to the clear expression of these views, the Government Delegate is authorized to vote for the adoption of the specific conventions to be considered by the Conference, namely, (a) the textile industry; (b) the printing and kindred trades; and (c) the chemical industry, provided that he also indicates that the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia would make it a condition of its ratification of these conventions that the principal countries engaged in these industries should have adhered to such conventions. 
To avoid any misunderstanding the Government Delegate should make it clear that adherence to any such convention by the Commonwealth cannot, as the constitutional position now stands, confer upon the Parliament of the Commonwealth a legislative power which it does not now possess, but that such adherence would be significant as (i) an indication of the policy of the Government in the circumstances then existing; and (ii) giving an opportunity to the Parliaments of the Status to exercise their own powers in relation to the matter. 
As honorable senators are aware, a convention is adopted at the conference by a two-thirds majority of government, employers' and workers' delegates voting together. The obligation of governments under the Constitution of the International Labour Organization is that they will, within a "period of one year from the closing of the Conference, bring a draft convention before the authority or authorities' within whose competence the matter lies for the enactment of legislation or other action. The draft conventions and recommendations referred to above, on receipt in Australia will, in accordance with the usual practice in such cases, be presented to this Parliament and communicated to the State governments for consideration, and an expression of their views on the question of implementation. 
It will be recalled that the 1935 conference adopted a convention generally affirming the principle of the 40-hour week, and the application of this principle to specific industries was to come before -future conferences. At the conference which has just closed, three industries were considered in this connexion, but only one of them obtained the necessary majority for the adoption of a draft convention in relation thereto. A draft convention was adopted in 1935 applying a 42-hour week, on the basis of four shifts, to automatic glass-bottle manufacture, while in 1936 the conference adopted a draft convention applying the 40-hour week to public works. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether, in the event of the Inter-State Commission Bill being passed by this Parliament, it is the intention of the Government to appoint to that commission any members of Parliament? 
Can the Leader of the Senate say whether, in the event of the Commonwealth and the States agreeing to pass the necessary legislation, a 40-hour week can be established in Australia? 
Was not the Loan Council created by agreement between the States and the Commonwealth that theirborrowing powers were to be handed over to the council? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.As the honorable senator well knows, the Loan Council was constituted by an amendment of the Federal Constitution. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health,  upon notice - 
Regarding the admitted necessity for improving the health of the nation, will the Minister state what is being done to give effect to, or implement, the policy outlined in his broadcast speech of the6th May last? 
The Minister for Health has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
The improvement of the health of the people depends upon attention to many aspects of social welfare, each of which must receive attention and depends very largely upon the co-operation of the people themselves. Already the Commonwealth has secured effective co-operation with the State Health Departments through the Federal Health Council, and has endeavoured by subsidies and other action to stimulate progress in important aspects of public health which call for attention. A campaign to arouse interest and educate the public in matters of health has been begun, and has already evoked considerable interest and response. Cancer, maternal and infant welfare, restoration of cripples, have all received attention. The important questions of diet and personal hygiene have been dealt with, and an Advisory Council on Nutrition has been appointed. The Government proposes to introduce a measure to establish medical research on a permanent national basis. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Will the Government give consideration to the publication of a white paper setting out the negotiations that took place on the Japanese trade diversion policy? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Acting Prime Minister has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
The suggestion that the Commonwealth Government should consider the issue of a white paper setting out details of the trade negotiations with Japan was made by the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia in February last. This suggestion has received the consideration of the Commonwealth Government. The Government does not consider that any good purpose would be achieved by reviewing the factors which led to the trade dispute, which has since been amicably settled. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Did the Government promise that it would not permit the wool-growers of Australia to suffer any loss as a result of the recent trade diversion policy? 
If so, is it the intention of the Government to accede to requests made by the wool section of the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia and the Wheat-growers Union of Western Australia for compensation for losses incurred by wool-growers during the recent absence of Japanese buyers from the Australian woo! sales ? 
If not, why not? 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to construct suitable patrol boats for the preservation of our pearling beds, and to prevent smuggling on the north-west coast of Western Australia ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer :  - 
The whole question of providing an efficient patrol service on the Australian coast is at present receiving the careful consideration of the Government. A powerful vessel is. at present under construction for the Customs 
Department for use in  the prevention of smuggling and other breaches of the Customs Act in the northern waters df Australia. The Commonwealth Government has, however, no power to legislate for the control or protection of pearl or other fisheries within territorial waters, this being a. function of the State Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
In view of its importance to the State Treasurers concerned can the Minister representing the Treasurer state when the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission will be received by the Government? 
The Government has not yet received any indication from the Commonwealth Grants Commission as to when its report will be submitted. 
asked the Minister .representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received the following resolution, reported to have been carried unanimously at a recent meeting of the Joint Committee for Tariff Revision : - " This meeting, having been fully informed and having discussed the reported intention of the Commonwealth Government to appoint an advisory tariff committee consisting of a departmental officer as chairman, the secretary of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, and the director of the Australian Association of British Manufacturers, to make recommendations to the Minister in respect of the framing of new by-laws and the amendment or abolition of existing bylaws - strongly protests against the  appointment  of a committee so constituted on the ground that the p*id representatives of sectional interests are not the proper persons to be entrusted with this important part of tariff administration. 
This meeting is also of the opinion that the appointment of the committee is in direct conflict with the declared policy of the Ministry that it will not make drastic tariff changes or increase existing duties without reference to the Tariff Board. 
This meeting, therefore, requests the Federal Government to refrain from proceeding with the establishment of the proposed advisory tariff committee"? 
If the proposed tariff advisory committee is appointed, will a direct representative of the primary industries of Australia he included in its members? 
If not, why not? 
Yes. 2 and 3. The question of direct representation on the advisory colomittee of primary industries does not arise. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is the Government in possession of information as to the losses in stock in Western Australia as a result of recent droughts? 
If so, what were those losses and their equivalent in money? 
Has the Government received any requests from' («,) the pastoralists, or (b) the Western Australian Government for aid in replacing those losses? 
If any such request has been received, what action does the Government propose to take? 
The Commonwealth Government has received requests from the Western Australian Government and certain local bodies for assistance to cover losses. 
The Commonwealth, while sympathetic with the plight of those who are suffering from drought, regrets that it is unable to make a grant for relief. Losses from drought are suffered in some portion of one or more of the States from time to time. The only course for the Commonwealth, therefore, is to leave the question of drought relief for the States themselves to deal with. This has been the policy since federation. The Commonwealth, however, strongly supported an application to the Loan Council by Western Australia for an increase in the amount to be provided from loan, funds to cover the deficit for Western Australia for ] 936-37. The State asked the. Loan Council, in view df the relief charges which would be thrown on its budget by drought conditions, to increase the provision for "deficit for 1030-37 from f200,000 to £1,000,000, and this request the Loan Council agreed to. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a very short measure containing merely two provisions, the second of which may be said to be divided into two small amendments. The first provision seeks to repeal section 4 of the principal act which reads as follows :  - 
This part of this act shall apply to waterside workers atsuch ports in the Commonwealth as are specified by the Minister by notice in theGazette and to those ports. 
At present certain ports have been specified, and this amendment seeks to name those ports, thus giving them that form of permanency which a statute gives as distinct from notification in the  Gazette  through ministerial authority. The ports named in this measure are exactly the same as those which have already been notified in the  Gazette;  no change will be effected in that respect. 
The two parts of the second proposed amendment, which seek to amend section 12 of the principal act, are entirely ameliorative in character. It has been the subject of representations by the waterside workers to the Government, and in presenting this amendment, the Government is, indeed, doing what it has been requested to do. The first part of this amendmentrelates to sub-section 3, which reads - 
Where a licence issued to any person is cancelled under this section, the licensing officer by whom the licence is cancelled shall, by writing under his hand, fix a period, not being less than six months nor more than twelve months from the date of cancellation, during which the person shall be ineligible to receive a licence under this Part, and the person shall, subject to this Part, thereupon bo ineligible accordingly. 
By that provision, a licensing officer cannot cancel a licence for a period of less than six months. The second part of the second proposed amendment relates to sub-section 6, which reads - 
Upon the hearing of an appeal the Court may as it thinks fit confirm the cancellation or order the restoration of the licence, or, where it confirms the cancellation, may vary the period during which the appellant is ineligible to receive a fresh licence, but so that the period of ineligibility is not less than six nor more than twelve, months. 
A restraintis placed upon the licensing officer that he cannot suspend a licence for less than six months, and, further, if an aggrieved waterside worker appeals and is successful to the extent that he convinces the magistrate that his offence was of a triflng nature, the magistrate, none the less,cannot reduce the term of suspension to less than six months. Under the" proposed amendment, the licensing officer may cancel a waterside worker's licence for any period not less than one month, and the magistrate, on appeal, may vary the sentence so long as he does not reduce the period of suspension to less than one month. This provision is entirely ameliorative. 
No hidden powers are sought under this measure, as will be clear to honorable  senators from the explanation which I have just given. In these circumstances,  I  suggest that honorable senators should give the measure a speedy passage. The second provision is entirely in the interests of the men themselves, whilst the first provision is more in accordance with the spirit of this chamber because it puts into statute form what, up to this time, has been accomplished by administrative action. 
 As the Assistant Minister in charge of the bill is aware, the Opposition is entirely opposed to the Transport "Workers Act as a whole. I am pleased that it is now sought to ameliorate tinpresent position by allowing the term of suspension of a licence to be reduced to one month. We do not oppose that proposal because wc believe that it is a step in the right direction, but we are opposed definitely  to  the whole system of licensing waterside workers. I emphasize that we shall vigorously oppose any increase of the number of ports to which licensing applies, although I accept the assurance of the Assistant Minister that the ports mentioned in the bill are exactly the same as those to which the act has been already applied by proclamation. I have no other comment to make, except that the Opposition regards the bill as the the Government's responsibility, but if, at the next election, the electors give us the opportunity to do so, we shall remove the Transport Workers Act from the statute-book. 
 in reply  - In order that there shall be no misapprehension on the part of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I repeat that the Government has no present intention of increasing the number of ports to which this act applies, but at the same time, I do not deny that the power is retained by which they could be increased. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill lead a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
As the representative of the Opposition in this chamber, I intend to oppose this bill vigorously. 
I do not know whether the honorable senator receives instructions concerning the attitude which ho is to adopt on the measures that come before this chamber, but as the members of the Labour party always faithfully adhere to that party's policy there is no need for them to receive instructions. It may be well for honorable senators to review the history of the Inter-State Commission before coining to a decision on this measure. I realize that any reasons which we may give why this bill should not be passed will be wasted upon honorable senators opposite, who doubtless have already received instructions and must vote accordingly. I shall, however, endeavour briefly to outline the history of the InterState Commission. The establishment of such a commission is provided for in sections 101-104 of the Commonwealth Constitution, and the Inter-State Commission Act of 1912 purported to give effect to those sections. In moving the second reading of the Inter-State Commission Bill in 1912, the then AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Hughes)  said - 
It lias to bc noted that the Inter-State  Commission  will not be merely a commission of inquiry. It will possess, as I have already pointed out, powers of administration and of adjudication. It will be a Court of Record. It may make orders and enforce them in exactly the same way as any other Court. It will lie subject, of course, to' the limitations imposed on its jurisdiction and powers by the Constitution and in matters of law by the right of appeal to the High Court, but" upon matters of fact within its jurisdiction its decisions will he final. 
According to the wording of the 1912 act,' particularly part II.,  Mr. Hughes's  words were justified. It was under part II. that eventually the activities of the  commission were upset. Section 5 (2) provided - 
Every appointment to the commission shall be for seven years. 
That is the period provided in this measure. Unfortunately for those sponsoring this bill, section 72 of the Constitution reads - 
The Justices of the High Court and of the other Courts created by the. Parliament - 
Shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral in Council; 
Shall not be removed except by the Governor-General in Council on an address from both Houses of the Parliament in the same session, praying for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity ; 
Shall receive such remuneration as the Parliament may fix but the remuneration shall not be diminished during their continuance in office. 
The members of the commission appointed in 1912 fulfilled all those conditions except that they were appointed for seven years, and not as provided for in section 72 of the Constitution. The High Court held in 1915, in the case  New South Wales  v.  the Commonwealth,  C.L.R. 54, that as section 103 of the Constitution provides that members of the Inter-State Commission shall hold office for seven years, the Constitution does not authorize the Parliament of the Commonwealth to constitute the Inter-State Commission a court, and that the commission could not issue an injunction. In consequence of that decision the 1912 act became to a great extent inoperative and so did the commission, because the only powers it retained were those of investigation.  Mr. Hughes'  words, in relation to the 1912 legislation, have therefore been rendered meaningless by that decision of the High Court, and all that has happened since. It is interesting, therefore, to compare the present bill with the former bill, and also  Mr. Hughes'  words, some of which I have quoted, with  Senator Pearce's  words last night. The sections of the 1912 act, which conferred judicial powers on the commission, and were proved invalid, have disappeared, and only an anaemic set of provisions on the subject of investigation remains. The commission's sole function - it is not a power - is that of investigating and reporting. I commend that to the notice of the Senate. As explained by the capable Minister who explained the bill last night, it may appear an attractive proposition; if honorable senators are not critical in their approach to the bill,' they may easily be carried away by the eloquence and special pleading of the Minister whose job is to get the measure accepted. I repeat that the commission's sole power is that of recommendation; it can only investigate and report. It may, or may not, make a recommendation, and there is no suggestion that if a recommendation is made there will be any necessity for the Government to act upon it. Compare  Mr. Hughes'  introductory words with those of the right honorable senator who submitted the bill last night.  Mr. Hughes  concentrated his remarks on the powers of the commission as a judicial and administrative body, not forgetting that a function of the commission was to arbitrate in disputes.  His  hopes, of course, were soon dissipated by the High Court.  Senator Pearce,  on the other hand, confined his remarks to the investigatory powers of the commission. " Powers " is a word, which, I have indicated, should not apply to any commission, board or advisory council set up merely to investigate. With all respect to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  I say that some singular feats of reasoning were performed by him in his remarks in introducing this bill when he said - 
I desire to refer once again to the provision relating to the initiation of inquiries on the complaint of any State. 
We know why that was done. Innocent members of the Opposition do occasionally wake up to things. We realize why that special appeal was made to the representatives sent to this chamber from the different States.  Senator Pearce  continued - 
In this right of initiation the States are to be given a very real power to bring before the public notice any anomalies, preferences, , or discriminations alleged to exist in relation to interstate commerce. 
We all know that that is a serious bone of contention at the moment. We have had a referendum on the matter. The Government now wonders what it is going to do to get out of its difficulties - difficulties which I contend should not "have arisen, and which a government ready to take its courage into both hands would readily surmount. It is ridiculous to say that these problems of legislation and administration cannot be got over if the Government is prepared to adopt a courageous course in relation to them.  Senator Pearce  continued - 
It is real in the sense that any State which feels that it is being unfairly affected by Commonwealth legislation as to trade will have a statutory right to bring its complaint before an independent body empowered to investigate the complaint and report the result of the inquiry to the Governor-General. 
I am opposed to this continued delegation of powers and functions which should be exercised by the Government to commissions, boards, advisory councils, and other bodies. I believe that the time has arrived when there should be far less paraphernalia of government than there is to-day. I believe that the people are prepared to scrap the State parliaments and, if asked sanely, give full power to the Commonwealth Parliament when they feel that they have a government that they can trust. 
I prefer to be an optimist rather than a pessimist like the honorable senator. I have heard that a pessimist sees difficulties in every opportunity. I claim to see opportunity in every difficulty. I am doing so in this debate. I believe that the day has arrived when Commonwealth Ministers should accept the responsibilities of their office and return to the taxpayers of the country value equivalent to the salaries' theyreceive. I interpose that the salaries are not high enough if Ministers accept their responsibilities and do the job they are supposed to do without putting the nation to the needless expense of this ever growing number of commissions. There is no reason, except indolence or ignorance, why a Minister should not do the job that devolves upon him in the department he undertakes to administer. He does not need to call on commissions, boards and advisory councils, or get people from overseas to make reports and who are amenable to the Government's will or prepared to recommend delays. Ministers have expert advice at their hands, and they should use it. There are enough intelligent young men in Australia - public servants and others - to supply them with advice and information on any point. 
SenatorBrennan. - Did the honorable senator say that in 1901 ? 
In 1901, I was a fervent supporter of federation. In my support of that cause, I went as far as" my limited opportunities allowed me. Indeed, I had to make sacrifices in doing so. I was only a wage-earner and, owing to the succession of Tory governments that had held sway in Queensland, that wage was very low. I believed in federation because its exponents promised one flag, one nation, one destiny, one parliament. Later I realized that they had sold to us a " gold brick ", for they had given us merely another parliament. If, in my youthful enthusiasm for federation, I overlooked some things which should not have been overlooked, I plead that I was not at that time a member of Parliament, but only a wage-earner, earning little and working long hours. 
In a previous debate this session, I alluded to the fact that accommodation for members in this building was becoming more limited owing to the encroachments of the personnel of various departments which should be accommodated in the secretariat buildings. I emphasize my complaint now and I suggest that the  President  and  Speaker,  who supervise the domestic arrangements for the convenience of members, should at once advertise for a number of capable carpenters to carry out some necessary alterations in this building. I know that it will be necessary to pay those artisans a bonus in addition to their ordinary wages because they would not be able to live here. They would have to go to Queanbeyan, simply because of the failure of the Canberra authorities to provide sufficient housing for the people. The business of these carpenters, I suggest, would be to construct innumerable pigeon holes in which the recommendations or reports of the many investigatory bodies and commissions already existing or to be created might be placed, because I am quite certain that the Government will give no guarantee of its intention to take any notice of those reports. 
The history of interstate trade and commerce shows clearly that instead of appointing a commission to give the people an opportunity to ventilate grievances, the Commonwealth Government should have a definite domestic policy which would put an end to such complaints or disputes. Even the  Canberra Times,  which certainly has riot Labour sympathies - usually it supports this Government - asserts that all that is required to ensure the free flow of interstate commerce i3 not another expensive commission to inquire into problems which may arise, but a government with the necessary courage to do its job. For once I agree with the  Canberra Times.  Of what use is it to tell people that they will have an opportunity to ventilate their grievances before this proposed commission? It will not be vested with power to do anything worth while, and certainly it will not have authority to remove any cause for complaint in connexion with interstate trade. The only authority with power to rectify grievances is the National Parliament. Therefore, in all seriousness, I ask honorable senators of what use is it to appoint a body with power only to investigate and report to one of the parties to a dispute, namely, the Commonwealth Parliament through the GovernorGeneral? 
Another statement made by the Leader of the Senate last night is worthy of more than passing notice. The right honorable gentleman said - ' 
The States, secure in the knowledge that their grievances will be entrusted to a body in which they can repose their trust, will bo in a position to proceed to carry out their policies for the betterment of the peoples within their respective jurisdictions, and to co-operate more contentedly in the great work which the Australian people set themselves to do when they federated in 1900. 
I doubt that  Senator McLeay  has read the speech delivered by the Leader of the Senate; if he has, he has probably forgotten the paragraph to which I have directed attention. It certainly means nothing to me. There is no reason at all why we should succumb to the tyranny of words, or that we should  swallow euphonious phrasessimply because they have been uttered by the leader in this chamber. What is there in the constitution of the commission that will especially command the respect of the States? What is there in the bill, from the first word to the last, that can honestly be said to command respect? The entire measure is distasteful and nauseating to anybody who takes an intelligent interest in the proposal. This expensive commission, we are told, will have investigatory powers. 
I am opposed to its appointment. I thought I had already indicated my attitude to the measure, and that even  Senator Arkins  would be able to understand reasonably plain English. Are we expected to believe that simply because the appointments will be made by the Commonwealth Government, the commission will be attractive to the States? That, at all events, is not the impression which I gained during the referendum campaign, and later, in the Gwydir by-election. Wherever I travelled, the people said to me, in effect, " If you ask us to give that power to a Labour 'Government, very well; but we will never give it to this Government ". 
The honorable senator may know something about public opinion in his own State. It is obvious that he is ignorant of conditions in Queensland, because the Darling Downs seat was not held by a representative of the Labour party. Its last representative was the late  Sir Littleton  Groom, one of the best men who ever; sat in this Parliament, and prior to his election it was represented by his father. 
My colleague is right. In returning a Country party representative, the electors of that division were merely true to their former allegiance. 
But let me return to the bill. I have already shown that the provision relating to appointments to the commission by the Commonwealth Government is not likely to command the respect of the States. I now ask whether the provisions that the commission will be appointed for a limited term, and with limited powers, are likely ' to persuade the .States that they will receive anything of value at the hands of that body. Are these conditions likely to appeal to intelligent people in the States? If the commission is to be of any value, why i3 its life to be limited to seven years, and why is its authority to he restricted? Of course I shall be told that the wider powers given to the InterState Commission appointed in 1912 were over-ridden by decisions of the High Court. It appears, from the speech of the Leader of the Senate last night, that the only way in which the commission could supplement the work of the High Court would be in connexion with legislation which, while it might not infringe the provisions of the Constitution, might place one State at a disadvantage in relation to another. Let that sink in. If that were one of its functions, the work of the commission would only further confuse an already worried business community. Anybody without a biased mind who considers the bill will agree that; under the Government's proposal, the business of the commission will be to tell the Commonwealth Parliament how to do its job. I object to that. We, the members of this House of the Parliament, are here for that purpose. I know of the provision in the Constitution to appoint an Inter-State Commission; I know also that the High Court ruled that some of the powers entrusted to the original commission were an infringement of the Constitution. In so many words the High Court said : " Gentlemen of the Commonwealth Government, you do not know your own job. You set up an Inter-State Commission vested with powers  quite outside the Constitution ". As a result of that ruling we have been without an Inter-State Commission for many years, and it is indecent for this Government now to introduce legislation to appoint a new commission just prior to the dissolution of this Parliament. Of course the Government may be returned to power. I am not making any forecast about the result of the next ejection; but I consider that the Government would have acted more wisely if it had not introduced the bill at this stage. It has already been criticized from one end of the continent to the other. People are saying that the bill is merely a subterfuge; that the real intention is to provide a refuge for certain politicians. 
It is all very well for  Senator Arkins  to voice his dissent. If he does not know what people are thinking about the" bill, it is because he has not placed himself in. contact with public opinion. Everywhere, I am being asked who will be appointed to the commission, and every one knows that the names of two gentlemen are being canvassed as likely to secure appointment to two of the three positions to be created. 
Just so, but I do not wish to elaborate the point. The Senate is supposed to be a States House. Is there any need to set up a commission of this kind? Cannot we in this chamber be trusted to do justice as between the States? In the event of difficulties arising between one State and another, or between the States and the Commonwealth, a government possessing courage and ability would introduce legislation to meet the situation. After the InterState Commission was shorn of its judicial powers by the decision of the High Court it acted for a while as a kind of standing royal commission, and carried out a number of investigations. Its influence, however, was practically negligible. The work performed by it consisted of one investigation in 1913-14; the hearing of the  Wheat  case in 1915, an appeal from which led to the decision of the High Court, which robbed the commission of its judicial powers; an inquiry in the South Pacific in 1916; another inquiry in 1917; and several minor investigations. I do not say that those investigations were of no value, but I do say that the work could have been done as effectively by a Minister sitting in his room and pressing a button - to call to his side departmental experts, with a view to deciding upon a policyto meet the situations as they arose. As 
Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, I do not regard it as my duty to speak merely for the sake of opposing the Government. Recently,  Senator Hardy  twitted me with having allowed certain measures to pass last session without debate. He interpreted my silence as being due to indolence. It was nothing of the kind. Either I approved of the measures, or regarded them as so hopeless that a discussion of them would have been a "waste of time. I am strongly opposed to the 'reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission, as is also every other member of the Labour party, both in this chamber and in the House of Representatives. The Inter-State Commission probably did some good work in connexion with tariffs, but not long afterwards the Government of. the day set up another similar body, when it constituted the Tariff Boa.rd. I do not want to say anything that has any semblance of impropriety about it, but I say 'definitely that during the last months of the regime of the .Bruce-Page Government, commission after commission was established, and numbers of disgruntled members of this Parliament were appointed to them. The creation by the Government of royal commissions and other bodies with nothing but investigatory or advisory powers, whose members roamed around the continent and drew elaborate fees, amounted to a public scandal. 
The honorable senator who has interjected should he sufficiently acquainted with the facts to know the names; but, if he desires it, I shall place on the notice-paper a question asking for the number of commissions appointed by the Bruce-Page Government, and the names of the persons appointed thereto. 
That is so. From time to time new bodies were created, and supporters of the then Government who were getting obstreperous were given jobs on them. 
The honorable senator's interjection does not trouble me. The  appointment  of so many commissi Dns was wrong. The Bruce-Page Government should have done the job; it is the duty of the government in power to accept responsibility. If its members have not the technical- ability required in some cases, they can call to their aid expert advice. 
If I had my wa3T, I would warn certain politicians off the course for ever. One valuable permanent result of the creation of the InterState Commission was the establishment of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, which took the place of the temporary Bureau of Science and Industry. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research is the outcome of a report by the Inter-State Commission in 1916 in relation to new industries. . The existence of such a body is most desirable, but there was no reason, why Ministers of the Crown themselves should not have seen the need for it. Looking around' this chamber, I can see at least half a dozen men who at that time were capable of realizing the need for a scientific body like the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. All that the proposed commission is likely to do can be done as well by Ministers in collaboration with experts. I believe that the framers of the Constitution, and the Government which appointed the Inter-State Commission, were actuated by the best of motives. The commission had wide powers or, at least, it was thought to . possess them; its members were men of ability and experience; yet, despite some inquiry work which might be of value to economic historians, it did little. Even economic historians could have obtained similar information in other ways. With the exception of a few lawyers and others who have taken a special interest in constitutional matters, I doubt whether the people of Australia remember that there ever was an Inter-State Commission. 
I battled for the Constitution. " Like many others,  Senator McLeay  believes "that a constitution prepared 40 years ago must not be criticized, much less altered, nothwithstanding that during those 40 years problems have arisen which could not have been foreseen by the framers of the Constitution. 
After the commission had been shorn of its judicial powers it had nothing to justify its continuance, and the attempt of the Government to revive it by means of artificial respiration is an insult to this chamber and to the people of Australia. 
I know as little of the intentions of the framers of the Constitution as I do of any subject discussed by the honorable senator, when he has concluded his speech. Last night the Leader of the Senate referred to the powers of the commission. Why did he use the plural " powers " ? The commission, if appointed, will have only one power - that of inquiry, investigation and report. Those are merely duties. Its only power will be to clutter pigeon holes. Three years ago the Prime Minister said that the Government realized the necessity for an Inter-State Commission as a working part of the Constitution, and, accordingly, proposed to reconstitute the commission. He also said that the Government would consider later whether there was any necessity for an amendment of the Constitution to enable the commission to function effectively. For three years the Government did nothing, but now, in a moribund Parliament, a government that is discredited, according to all the latest evidence, proposes to reconstitute this body. I suggest that that is scarcely a decent thing to do. The Prime Minister would have acted more honorably had he said that, although it was the intention of the Government in 1934 to reconstitute the Inter-State Commission, it had not been able to do so because of pressure of other business, and that now, with the dissolution of Parliament not many weeks off, it preferred not to do anything in the matter, but to leave it to the new government. 
I think that the Leader of the Senate was never more eloquent than when making his secondreading speech on this bill last night. When I read his speech in  cold print this morning it seemed even more ornate and convincing than it did when I listened to it. T was particularly impressed with his concluding remarks. The honorable senator said - 
T.he 'proposed commission would necessarily require the services of an expert staff to obtain and collate information under the direction of the commission. 
The Government is not doing the job; the first Inter-State Commission apparently did not possess the power it was thought to have; it is proposed, therefore, to set up a new commission, but as this commission will have only investigatory powers we know it will not be able to do the job either. So we shall be obliged to build up an expert staff to obtain and collate information under the direction of the commission. In other words, the expert staff will tell the commission what is its job and how to do it. If an expert staff is appointed to obtain and collate information under the direction of the commission, it will, so it appears to me, have to teach the commission its job. Or is it intended, perhaps, that the commission shall teach these expert public servants their job? Honorable senators are very well aware of the actual position. They can easily visualize the appointment of the three members of this commission, and they know that these men will be well paid for their work.  Senator Pearce  also stated that this expert staff will be recruited from the Public Service. I can imagine many young bright men in the Public Service, on hearing that information, sitting up and saying to themselves, " Here is another avenue of promotion ; we shall not have to wait until someone dies before we can move up." The honorable senator also said that " at the present time skilled assistants are made available to royal commissions." As. undoubtedly, these royal commissions cannot do their job without help from skilled assistants, they are not needed; on the other hand, however, we need the skilled assistants. The honorable senator's statement continued, " These are largely drawn from the Public Service, and upon the completion of a royal commission return to their respective departments." Thus, after building up the hopes of bright young public servants with the prospect of higher classifications, the Government admits that, when the job is over, they will have to return to their respective departments. I was considerably interested in this statement until I noticed that there was that string to it. 
I admit that the right honorable senator's speech at a later stage contains further remarks on this subject, but the paragraph with which I am now dealing reads as follows : - 
These assistants arc largely drawn from the Commonwealth Public Service, and upon the completion of the work of a royal commission return to their respective departments. 
If I have misunderstood the position my condemnation is all. the more justified. Are we to continue building up elaborate staffs to do ibis job? The Government should do it, but, instead, proposes to refer it to the Inter-State Commission, knowing that that body cannot do the job without the assistance of expert public servants. I do not usually throw bouquets at the Minister, but I feel sure that  Senator Pearce,  for instance, could do this job with the assistance of his expert public servants. The Government prefers to follow a sys tem whereby it merely increases the evergrowing expense of government under which this country is labouring to-day. I still hold the view that one national parliament should have full power to govern this country completely, delegating certain powers to advisory councils, or whatever such bodies may be called, thus centralizing the work of law-making at Canberra, and de-centralizing the work of administration over the whole of the States. That is the trend of public thought on this matter to-day, and every honorable senator should aim at achieving that goal. Instead of attempting to do that, however, we are complicating our forms of government, and increasing costs, by setting up all kinds of boards and commissions, to all of which I am totally opposed, because, as I have already said, the Government itself ought to be able to do its job. 
I agree with my leader that at this juncture, particularly, it is wrong for the  Government  to bring in this measure, because legislation of this nature was promised several years ago, and it is only now, on the eve of the dissolution of this Parliament, that it has seen fit to attempt to fulfil its promise. Furthermore, if we can rely upon current rumours, one or two members of this Government are to be appointed to lucrative positions as members of the proposed commission. Frankly, I do not object to the appointment of a parliamentarian to any position which he is capable of filling. It seems to me, however, to be indecent on the part of the Government to make this proposal in the dying hours of the Parliament. If it had brought this measure forward early in its term of office, possibly our attitude might have been modified. 
Some time ago, I saw a film entitled  Mr. Deeds  Goes to Town,  which was claimed to be one of the finest productions in recent years. That picture contained a scene of proceedings in a court in which an alienist gave evidence; after he had testified regarding the crankiness of people of certain types, the .defendant went into the box and called attention to the mental aberrations and nervous habits of many other kinds of people. For instance, he described as "  0  fillers "  certain people in the court, who, while listening to the evidence, occupied their time by filling in the " O's " in printed matter before them. And the alienist happened to be one of those people ! Sometimes 1 believe that members of this Government suffer from mental aberrations, and although they may not be aptly, described as "Ofillers", they certainly are "pigeon-hole fillers". One of our complaints against this Government is that it is a filler - of pigeon-holes, and the proposed commission will probably give it further opportunities to indulge its proclivities in that direction. One of the blots on modern democratic systems is the readiness with which parliaments delegate their duties to boards and commissions, aided by well-paid officials. If any very great advantage accrued from the work of royal commissions we could not oppose their appointment, but it i3 common knowledge throughout Australia that this Government and its predecessor has expended about £100,000 on royal commissions, although most of the work accomplished by them has been disregarded and their reports have been pigeonholed. It is admitted that most of the reports of the previous Inter-State Commission were pigeon-holed. My Leader has referred to one suggestion of the Inter-State Commission which resulted in the formation of a valuable body, and. in that respect I endorse his remarks in regard to the establishment of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. A writer of an article which appeared in a recent issue of the  Australian Quarterly Review,  mentioned that many of the reports of royal commissions were used merely to fill up the volumes of parliamentary papers. Dealing particularly with the work of the Inter-State Commission on the tariff, he said that undoubtedly it conducted an intense investigation of tariff matters, and added, " Those investigations comprise two enormous volumes of parliamentary papers, including masses of statistics and reports of evidence ". Most of these, of course, have been pigeon-holed, and only a few historians ever see them. Possibly there would be less objection to the re-constitution of the Inter-State Com mission if the Government were to declare that no other royal commissions would be appointed, but that all work of a nature previously referred to royal commissions would be done by the Inter-State Commission. However, we are not sure that, if the Government should, by some chance, be returned to office at the  nexelection,  the appointment of royal commissions will cease, and a stop will be put to the increasing cost of such investigations and the wasted effort they represent. Within seven years the salaries of members of the Inter-State Commission will amount to £45,000, in addition to considerable contingent expenditure. We know that, as soon as a commission is set up, its members require assistants and must travel from one end of the country to the other. It is questionable whether these commissions ever achieve anything to justify the money expended on them. It has been said that under section 101 of the Constitution, the appointment of an Inter-State Commission is mandatory, but I believe that thirteen years elapsed after the inception of federation before such a body was appointed. The Inter-State Commission which functioned until 1920 or 1921 was thought to enjoy extensive powers, but in the wheat case  New South Wales  v.  The Commonwealth  the High Court ruled that the commission, by virtue of its limited tenure under section 103, could not be a court and could not exercise judicial powers. According to an interesting article which appeared in the  Australian Quarterly,  the powers vested in the Inter-State Commission were so extensive that it could hear and determine complaints, award damages, inflict heavy fines for disobedience of its orders, and even commit persons to prison for failure to pay. It could also compel witnesses to attend, and be examined on oath. The Government now contends that, in view of section 101 of the Constitution, the InterState Commission should be reconstituted, and the bill sets out fully the scope of the work which the commission is to undertake. If the people really thought that 'the appointment of such a commission would be of advantage to the Com-, monwealth, there would not be strong opposition to its reconstitution; but many of the subjects which would be referred to the commission for investigation and ' report have already been fully investigated by other commissions, and their reports are at the disposal of the Government. Instead of creating additional investigating authorities, definite action is required. For instance, the Government is well aware of the difficulties being experienced by the less populous States, and all that is needed is immediate financial relief to enable the governments of those States to function satisfactorily. A democracy should be as 'active as a dictatorship. While we have bourgeois governments we shall always have inquiries by commissions. 
If the honorable senator will refer to the  Oxford Dictionary,  he will see what bourgeois means. There is a difference between a bourgeois democracy and a proletarian democracy. For the edification of  Senator Leckie,  I may say that when I speak of proletarian democracy, I am referring to the type of democracy which, owing allegiance to the people, solves problems by action rather than by investigation. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the bill. 
I was merely showing that we should have a clear understanding of the word " democracy " before we vote on the second reading of this bill. If the Government perused reports of commissions which have already inquired into various problems, it would find that there is no need for the appointment of an Inter-State Commission. Section 101 of the Constitution provides - 
There shall be an Inter-State Commission with such powers of adjudication and administration as the Parliament deems necessary for the execution and maintenance, within the Commonwealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating to trade and commerce, and of all laws made thereunder.  
Clause 21 of the bill reads: - 
It shall not be lawful for any State, or for any State railway authority, to give or make upon any railway the property of the State, in respect of interstate commerce, or so as to affect such commerce, any preference or discrimination which the commission adjudges undue and unreasonable or unjust to any State. 
The Minister should study that clause in conjunction with clause 22. If a State government, objecting to a decision of the  commisison  based on clause 21, took the case to the High Court, its judgment would be similar to that given in the case  New South Wales  v.  The Commonwealth. 
If a State authority decides to impose certain freight charges on its railways, the commission will have power to decide whether such charges- are lawful. 
There is nothing to that effect in the bill. The Government is setting up a commission with power to override the decisions of a State government. 
The word "lawful " is used in clause 21. 
I still contend that the commission will have the power to say whether the act of the State Government is lawful or unlawful. 
The commission will have the power to determine whether the act of a State is undue and unreasonable. If the commission were to determine that the rates charged on, say, the 
Queensland railways were unreasonable and unjust, the Queensland Government would be charged with acting unlawfully. The matter may later be referred to the High Court, which would give a decision similar to that given in the  Wheat  case. The view of the Opposition is expressed in the minority report of the Royal Commission on the Constitution, which was signed by Messrs. T. R. Ashworth, M. B. Duffy, and D. L. McNamara. Instead of setting up commissions, the Government should act on the recommendation contained in the following paragraph of that report: - 
Despite some surface indications to the contrary, we believe that the Australian people are in a specially favorable position to achieve a consistent national outlook. We are nearly all of one race; approximately 98 per cent, of our people are British; the great need is a constitution which will tend to still further develop national ideals. The Constitution of 1900 was a big stop in the right direction. We record our conviction that the time has arrived for placing full power and responsibility in the national Parliament as the means of achieving social unity. 
As a step towards unification the rail-  ways, for instance, could he put under the full control of the Commonwealth. It would be advisable for the Ministry to withdraw the bill. If it should happen still to be in power after the election, it could then re-introduce this legislation. 

 Senator ALLAN  MacDONAlD (Western Australia) [4.53]. - I regret the Labour party's opposition to this bill. It is a measure for which we have waited many years, and its enactment will tend to dissipate the feeling of some of the smaller States that they have suffered ill-treatment as a result of Commonwealth legislation and policy. Although I deplore the attitude of the Opposition, I am not astonished, since it is in keeping with its policy of aggrandizement of the larger States, to the detriment of ths smaller. Nothing is to be gained by traversing the ancient history contained in the musty tomes of the previous InterState Commission. This bill has been framed to meet present needs, the greatest of which, I contend, is the amelioration of the position of the financially weaker States. We have to face the position as it exists to-day, and that, is where the Opposition lamentably fails to help the smaller States. The feeling in Western 
Australia is that some competent body, able to hear and determine evidence regarding its position under the federation, is needed. W e want a permanent body of men, who, in time, will become experts in their job, and do it thoroughly. We shall then find that the union of the Commonwealth is a union in spirit as well as in law, but until a permanent body, adjudicating on the disabilities of the lesser States is appointed, we shall continue to hear rumblings of discontent and agitations for secession. Even at this late hour, I appeal to the Labour party to try to visualize something better and greater than is indicated by its opposition to the bill. We in Western Australia particularly, want to have examined every means by which we may be assured of the proper consideration which our case warrants. It stands to reason that, while the Commonwealth Grants Commission is functioning as a temporary tribunal, the smaller States will continue to feel justifiably that their financial position in the union is irksome. I think that the term of seven years, which the bill stipulates as the period for which members of the Inter-State Commission shall hold office, is too short. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD Members of that commission will, in fact, be judges and their position should be as inviolable as that of any other judges in the Australian courts. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Members of the commission will adjudicate on matters as important as any matters upon which the courts of law adjudicate. Accordingly, the very ablest men available should be tempted to take up appointments on the commission, and this cannot be accomplished unless the tenure of office be of a much more permanent nature than is provided for in the bill. 
There are a few features of the measure in regard to which I desire enlightenment. I should like the Minister, in his reply, to elucidate clauses 21 and 22 - 
(1.) It shall not be lawful for any State, or for any State railway authority, to give or make upon any railway the property of the State, in respect of interstate commerce, or so as to affect such commerce, any preference or discrimination which the commission adjudges undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State. (2.) In deciding whether a lower charge or difference of treatment constitutes within the meaning of this section a preference or discrimination which is undue or unreasonable, or unjust to any State, the commission shall have due regard to the financial responsibilities incurred by any State in connexion with the construction and maintenance of its railways. 
Nothing in this act shall render unlawful any rate for the carriage of goods upon a railway, the property of a State, if the rate is deemed by the commission to be necessary for the development of the territory of the State, and if the rate applies equally to goods within the State and to goods passing into the State from other States. 
The clause contemplates a state railway authority imposing very cheap freightrates on goods needed for developmental purposes, but my main concern in that matter is the freights charged on the East-West Railway. The residents of Western Australia have for a long period been annoyed at the fact that the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner imposes on goods carried on that line from Adelaide to Kalgoorlie freights much cheaper than are charged by the Western Australia Railways on goods carried on the State section from Perth to Kalgoorlie. It is possible that the I nter-State Commission may consider that this cheaper freight is necessary for development at the South Australian end of the railway, but does this clause compel the commission to exclude any argument or evidence on behalf of Western Australia that the Commonwealth freight rates on goods which will be in competition with goods manufactured within the State should be increased? Western Australian merchants have long suffered disability through the Commonwealth Railways charging lower rates on goods carried between Adelaide and Kalgoorlie. 
I compliment the Government on its having included clause 23, which reads :  - 
(1.) The commission may commence an investigation of any alleged contravention of the provisions of this part either of its own motion or on the complaint of any of the following authorities, that is to say - 
the Commonwealth; 
any State, or any State railway authority : 
any borough, municipality, or body politic; 
any harbour board, marine board, or other State authority; or 
any such association of traders or freighters, or chamber of commerce, manufactures, or agriculture, as is in the opinion of the commission a proper body to make the complaint, and it shall not be necessary for any such authority to prove that it is directly aggrieved by the matter complained of. 
I welcome the insertion of paragraph  e  because the Chambers of Commerce and the Chambers of Manufactures have given a great deal of thought, time and study to the commercial aspects of interstate relationships. Most of the agitation in Western Australia for the appointment of this commission has come from those recognized authorities, and for many years they have brought to light anomalies which I hope will be corrected by the commission. I commend the bill to the Senate and also commend the Government for having introduced it. It should not be deferred until after the general election; it is an urgent measure and should be passed and put into operation without delay. 
I intend to support the bill, but I should like a further explanation of clause 19. which reads: - 
(1.) The Governor-General may cause any report made under paragraph (a), (b) or(c) of sub-section (1.) of the last preceding section to be laid before each House of the Parliament and shall, before any proposedlaw relating to the subject of the report originates in the Parliament, cause the report tobe laid before each House thereof. 
That provision in the bill states that the Governor-General " may " cause the report to be brought before Parliament. These reports may relate to investigations carried out by the commission with respect to anomalies, preferences or discriminations in connexion with InterState commerce, alleged contraventions of the Constitution, or applications by a State for a grant of financial assistance. Such reports should automatically come before the Parliament for discussion and decision. The word " shall " should be substituted for the word "may" in the first line of sub-clause 1, otherwise a government which regarded a report or recommendation unfavorably, might with-  hold it and decline to give Parliament an opportunity to consider it. 
That does not remove my objection to clause 19 in its present form. 
If that be so, I shall be glad to hear the Leader of the Senate on that point. As to the personnel of the commission I should have preferred a provision that the  chairman  of the commission should have been a Justice of the High Court or a Judge of the Supreme Court of a State, instead of the requirement that " one member " should have had judicial experience. It is most desirable that the  chairman  should be a man possessing sound judicial knowledge and capable of conducting the proceedings of the commission in the proper manner. I do not know why clause 6, which deals with this matter, was inserted in its present form. I disagree with  Senator Allan  MacDonald with reference to the tenure of the proposed commission. Appointment for seven years is, I think, quite long enough, but that is the term prescribed by the Constitution. An appointee who was 60 years old at the date of appointment, would be 67 years of age at the end of his term. There should be some time limit governing appointments, otherwise an appointee may be well over 60 years of age at the date of appointment, and although he may be in complete physical and mental health at that time, seven years later he may not be fit physically or mentally to discharge his duties. 
My experience is that if a man holds a lucrative position, he is reluctant to resign! 
Only for proved misbehaviour or incapacity, and incapacity, as the Leader of the Senate well knows, is difficult to prove. We have had experience of one gentleman who should have been removed from a Commonwealth board many years before he retired. Eventually he was forced to resign, on account of ill health. 
Motion (by  Senator E.  B. Johnston) put - 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
The proposal to reconstitute the Inter-State Commission is illtimed. An Inter-State Commission was appointed in 1912, but, apparently, it was a failure, and we have been for so long without it, that many honorable senators have almost forgotten that such a body had existed and they regard its valueas small. The bill to reconstitute the commission within a few months of an appeal to the electors appears to lend support to the current belief that some highly-placed persons are to benefit from its passage. The principal daily newspapers have made frequent references to the probable appointees. When one remembers that the  chairman  will get £2,500 a year for seven years, and the two other members of the commission £2,000 a year for the same period, one is inclined to think that there is substantial ground for current rumours, especially as the Government is anxious for the quick passage of the bill through a Parliament that is hastening to its dissolution. If the bill assured me of a lucrative appointment for a term of seven years, I could support it heartily. Such things have been done in the past. I have in mind a gentleman who was appointed to a position for which he had no qualifications; nevertheless, he was paid a handsome salary over a fixed term, and the total payments ran- into many thousands of pounds. Public opinion is against the appointment of boards and commission's to do work which the Government should do. This bill proposes to continue a practice the evil effects of which were most evident during the regime of the Bruce-Page Government. By appointing commissions, governments can evade their duties, and, at the same time, distribute largess to their friends and those from whom favours have been, or are likely to be, received. 
The commission is to consist of three members, and as their duties will be of a semi-judicial nature, a highly-qualified legal man should be selected as its chairman. Apparently, however, the way is to be kept open for some one else to   occupy that position.  There are  rumours  that a prominent politician, . or ex politician, will be selected for the important post of chairman; but prominence in politics is not necessarily a qualification for a position of this nature. Even on the High Court Bench the influence of politics is apparent. That men who have been prominent in politics occupy high judicial positions is one reason why British workers sometimes refuse to have anything to do with arbitration. They reason - not without justification - that a judge who is in receipt of a salary of £7,000 or even £10,000 a year, cannot do  justice to men working for wages of from  £2  to £4 a week. 
The Opposition cannot prevent the passage of this measure, nor can it hope to secure substantial amendments. It can only make suggestions for its improvement. I therefore suggest that, if one member of the commission is to be a man holding views favorable to the Government, one of the other positions should be filled by a man who favours Labour." That would make for better balance on the commission. 
In Queensland, the State from  which  Senator Cooper  comes) there is- no difference between the Country party and the United Australia party.  The  honorable senator himself entered Parliament as a representative of the Country Progressive Nationalist party. There are only two sides  in  politics  in  Australia  - on  the one . hand, the Labour party, and  on  the other hand, the parties opposed to Labour. 
If capitalistic and financial interests are to be represented  on  the commission, Labour also should have representation there. Clause  12, (1),  provides - 
For the conduct of business any two commissioners shall be a quorum and shall have  . . all the powers of the commission. 
That is a bad principle. With a commission of only three members, all  of  them should be present at meetings. I suggest that the bill be amended accordingly. Subclause  2  provides that at all meetings of the commission, the decision of the majority shall prevail. There is  no  majority  in  a meeting  of  two, unless, ,  of  course, both members are in agreement. A third sub-clause recognizes this, and so provides that, should the two commissioners differ  in  opinion on any matter, the determination shall be postponed until all the commissioners are present. The bill should provide for a quorum  of  three commissioners. I object also to the delegation of power to one commissioner  as  provided for  in  Clause  13.  It may be necessary to make such provision  in  respect of a large body, but not with  a  commission of three members. 
Clause  3  repeals the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act  1933,  which,  on  the coming into force of this legislation, will go out of existence 
By Clause  23,  the commission is empowered to commence  an  investigation of any alleged contravention of the provisions of Part III., either of its own motion or on the complaint of any of a number of authorities mentioned  in  the clause. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - At this stage, the honor-  able senator is not entitled to discuss the measure clause by clause. He must confine himself to the general principles of the bill. " 
I was proceeding to deal with the principle contained in Clause 23. That clause provides for action by the- commission in the event of complaints being made to it by a number of authorities which are named. They are:  a,  the Commonwealth;  b,  any State or any State railway authority;  c,  any borough, municipality or body politic ;  d.  any harbour board, marine board, or other State authority; or  e,  any such association of traders or freighters, or chamber of commerce, manufactures, or agriculture as is, in the opinion of the commission, a proper body to make the complaint. Honorable senators will observe that no provision is made for representations to be made to the commission by any organization of workers. If these other authorities . are to be empowered to bring complaints before the commission, surely the workers whose interests are affected should be able to do the same. 
Finally, the Labour party objects to the reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission, because there is no obligation on the part of the Government to follow its recommendations. The Government will accept the commission's recommendations when it suits its purposes so to do, and will hold the commission responsible; but otherwise the recommendations  will be pigeon-holed. "We have seen how the present Government has treated reports of the Tariff Board. Recommendations favouring reductions of duties have been followed, but others have not been accepted by the Government. The appointment of an Inter-State Commission is not justified, and I shall oppose the bill. 
I wish that a bill of this nature had been brought before this chamber about eleven years ago, when I was first elected to the Senate. We in Tasmania were then clamouring for the reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission because we were having a bad time, due mainly, in the opinion of most Tasmanians, to the hardships imposed by federal policy. I recall that at some of the meetings held then, we said, in effect, "If only there were an Inter-State Commission before which we could put our case and have it thoroughly investigated!" At that time, strangely enough,  Sir Nicholas  Lockyer, one of the original members of the Inter-State Commission* was appointed by  Mr. Bruce,  the then Prime Minister, to come to Tasmania and investigate matters on behalf of the Commonwealth Government. 
I have consistently maintained that section 101 of the Constitution, which is mandatory, should be put into effect; it says that there " shall " be an InterStateCommission. It is very interesting to recall what the Royal Commission on the  Constitution had to say about the appointment of an Inter-State Commission, although, I admit, the statement which I shall quote in this respect, wascontained in a majority report; in fact,, at least two, or three, reports were presented in respect of some sections of the Constitution. I was amused to some extent by the remarks of the Leader of theOpposition. I do not know whether his ferocity is simulated - I think it is - but on this occasion he excelled himself; he was like a roaring lion, and made some of" us shiver. At one stage I was fairly knocking at the knees in fear of what might happen to this measure if the honorable senator had his way - and still may happen, if, unhappily, a Labour government is returned at the next election. I have always been of opinion that grants to States should not be made under. section 96 of the Constitution until recommended after thorough investigation by the InterState Commission - that is, when such a commission is in existence. What hasbeen the position since the lapse of theprevious Inter-.State Commission? Various inquiries have been held from timeto time into the affairs of claimant States ; some years ago a Royal  Commis-  sion was set up to investigate a claim on behalf of South Australia; whilst, in more recent years, the Commonwealth Grants Commission has dealt with thesematters. Because this measure will enable us to replace the Common-wealth Grants Commission, which is only a temporary, or transitory body, with a more permanent tribunal, I welcome it.- 
Members of the Inter-State Commission are to be appointed for a period of seven years and, furthermore, it will be a semijudicial body. Incidentally, I had to smile at the suggestion that an age limit should be stipulated in respect of the appointees. I feel sure that our esteemed friend, the Leader of the Opposition, has passed the age indicated. 
I do not believe that the honorable senator could be in better health or more alert mentally than he is at the moment; in fact, I envy his vigor and I sincerely wish that when I approach his age I shall possess something like his measure of energy and cheerfulness. 
Dealing with the appointment of an Inter-State Commission, the report of the Royal Commission on the Constitution stated, at page 2,49 - 
We are also of opinion that there is scope for the work of an Inter-State Commission in carrying out tlie inquiries and investigations enumerated in the Inter-State Commission Act of 1!)I2, referred to on page 54 of this report, or such other inquiries and investigations as might be substituted or added, and in exercising thu powers of adjudication conferred by that act, which may bc validly conferred if sections 71 and 72 of the Constitution, relating to the tenure of judges of courts created by the Commonwealth Parliament, arc amended as we recommend. 
We think that important duties may be carried out by siu Inter-State Commission in addition to those mentioned in the Constitution, and in the Act of 1012. In the section nf this report, dealing with the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States (section xix. ). reference is made to the sums of money granted from time to time to the States of Western Australia and to Tasmania, and to the grant to South Australia recently recommended by a royal commission. These grants were recommended partly on the ground that the finances of a State had been adversely affected by federation and partly on the ground that the State was in  financial  difficulties. We think that a penna nun t body should be established which should continuously watch thu effect of federal laws and administrative machinery on the various States, and should bc in a position to advise, either with or without .a special inquiry, whenever applications for grants are made to the Commonwealth. 
I emphasize that that commission recommended the appointment of a body of a permanent character which would be outside the sphere of political opportunism. I recall that not so very long ago, prior to an impending election in Tasmania, the suggestion was thrown out as a sort of bribe by members of a certain political party that Tasmanians would have better prospects of receiving a liberal grant if that particular party were elected to office. The appointment of an InterState Commission, which will bc charged with inquiring into the claims of Statesin a judicial manner, thoroughly sifting their pros and cons, and which by its very character, will be enabled to come to sober and well-considered judgments, will be all to the good. For this reason I support the measure. 
Yes ; they will have the machinery at their disposal to enable . them to become experts, and all political parties will rest assured that they will be more likely to receive justice in this way than if the old haphazard method of setting up various committees of inquiry from time to time is continued. The report of the Royal Commission on the Constitution also stated - 
The advantage of the establishment of such a body for these purposes would, we think, be twofold. There would be a tribunal in existence equipped with a knowledge of Australian conditions and of the working of the federation, and the claims of necessitous States would no longer afford an opening to thu benevolence or the opportunism of political parties. 
I agree entirely with that view. Most of what has been said concerning the probable personnel of the proposed commission is claptrap; it is no more than supposition. Obviously, in the selection of the personnel of a body of this kind, the Government's choice will rest on men possessing vast experience in the subjects which they will be called upon to consider, men who have an intimate knowledge of the working of federation within the last decade. Such men, undoubtedly, will weigh very carefully all of the evidence placed before them. As to the contention that this Government is delegating the powers of Parliament to another body and  squibbing  its job, or running away from its responsibility, the fact must be realized that in the final  resort  the Parliament itself will deal with this matter. Parliament, however, has not got the time, even if it possessed the ability, to carry out exhaustive investigations of this nature, and, therefore, it must be guided by reports placed before it by experts. 
As  Senator Col lings  has remarked, the Senate is the States House; it is on the floor of this chamber that we should sift these matters. However, I tremble when I conjecture what might happen at times if the Senate were to deal in detail with the claims of the States. Our debates, undoubtedly, would become very warm. In such circumstances I feel sure that my five colleagues and myself would put up a good fight on behalf of Tasmania. The honorable senator's suggestion, boiled down, would very likely result in undesirable bargaining between honorable senators representing the claimant States. Tasmania ns would certainly be eager to advance the claims ofthat at State and, likewise, honorable senators from South Australia, Western Australia, "and even Queensland, would not be backward in supporting the claims of their States. When a grant was wanted from the Commonwealth Government, honorable senators from a particular State would very likely approach honorable senators from other States with a proposition something like this, " Look here, you give us a hand in this particular matter, and we shall reciprocate." It would be a very bad business. 
Honorable senators generally take a broad view of the claims of the weaker States, but a system of bargaining, leading to " gentlemen's agreements " between the representatives of claimant States for mutual support, would not be in the interests of the Commonwealth. The InterState Commission will be able to examine carefully the claims of such States and in that way much good can be achieved. It is unfair and unjust to suggest that a government has not the capacity to govern, merely because it appoints an authority to hold, inquiries which cannot be conducted by Parliament. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
I intend to support the bill; but I protest strongly against the action of the Government in rushing the measure through before honorable senators have had an opportunity to compare its provisions with the Act of 1912. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  moved the second reading of this important bill only yesterday, and within 24 hours we are asked to express our considered opinion on it. Does the Leader of the Senate realize that for fifteen out of seventeen years he has been a member of governments which have refused to re-constitute the Inter-State Commission? Now the Senate is asked to deal withthe bill without having had time to consider it. The debate on this measure, which is bristling with legal intricacies and technicalities, should be adjourned until next week. On numerous occasions when I have asked whether the Government intended to. re-constitute the Inter-State Commission, I have met with rebuffs. At last a bill providing for a commission has been introduced, and an adjournment of the debate has been refused. 
If he will I shall ask leave to continue. 
I am anxious to compare the measure with previous legislation on the subject, and, having been fully occupied this morning, have had insufficient time to do so. As I am not in the fortunate position of Ministers and leaders of parties who have secretarial assistance, it is difficult to deliver a fully considered speech at such short notice. The Minister's attitude to the Senate generally is unjust, but, ashe has the support of the majority, I suppose it is useless to complain. 
Ever since I have been a member of the Senate I have consistently urged that the Inter-State Commission be re-constituted, but my repeated requestshave met with direct refusals. I congratulate the Government upon its changed attitude, and I am pleased to find that effect is being given to the promise made in the Prime Minister's  (Mr. Lyons)  policy speech prior to the last general election. The intention of the framers of the Constitution is clear. Section 101 reads - 
There shall he an Inter-State Commission . . . 
Despite that mandatory provision there has not been an Inter-State Commission for seventeen years, and, consequently, the weaker States have been denied the protection they are entitled to expect under the Constitution. The section continues - with such powers of adjudication and administration as the Parliament deems necessary for the execution and maintenance, within the Commonwealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating to trade and commerce, and of all laws made thereunder. 
Yes, but what has been done during the last seventeen years when various governments, including a Labour government, have been in office? Despite that mandatory provision, for 30 years out of 37 years the States have been without the assistance of such a body. I am glad that the position is being remedied, even belatedly, because, since 1920, the weaker States have been illegally deprived of the assistance of a tribunal which may be regarded as the oil necessary to lubricate the federal machinery. 
I do not think much of that commission or of its personnel. I trust that the personnel of the Inter-State Commission will differ from the body mentioned by the honorable senator. 
SenatorFoll. - Have its grants to Western Australia been inadequate? 
Yes, entirely, and I objected to the biased attitude adopted by its chairman before it commenced its work. It is rather interesting to note the attitude previously adopted by the Government on this subject. On the 15th September, 1932,  Han sard,  Vol. 135, page 498, I asked the Leader of the Senate the following question :  - 
Is it the intention of the Government to appoint an Inter-State Commission in order that the State of Western Australia may receive the protection provided by sections 101 and 102 of the Federal Constitution; if not, why not? 
He replied- 
The Minister replied- 
I intend to read the reply. 
The Minister does not suggest that he would give, on behalf of the Prime Minister, a reply with which he was not in entire agreement. 
I am reading the reply as it appears in  Hansard,  and I know that the Minister will correct me if I use words which are not in the official report, which is clear and convincing. I have not the slightest desire to misrepresent the right honorable gentleman. The reply by  Senator Pearce  reads - 
In view of the decision of the High Court in the case of  New South Wales  v.  Commonwealth  (20, C.L.E. 54), that part5 of the Inter-State Commission Act1912 relating to the judicial powers of the commission is  ultra, vires,  the Government does not considerthat the appointment of commissioners to exercise the remaining powers of the commission under that act would be justified in view of the financial position of the Commonwealth. In any case, however, the non-appointment of the commission docs not deprive the State of Western Australia of any protection. 
I am hopeful that Western Australia will receive protection and assistance from the reconstituted commission. 
Yes, and I am prepared to debate that subject with the honorable senator on any public platform. I am glad that the indefensible attitude adopted by the Government has been abandoned, and that one of our vital disabilities is being removed in some degree by the introduction of this measure; but I do not know to what extent, because in the brief time at my disposal I have not had an opportunity to ascertain whether the bill is all that I think it should.be. 
Not on this measure. I have been at it ever since its introduction seventeen hours ago. 
Of course I have. 
I cannot cover the matter as comprehensively as I desire in a few hours. I have not had an opportunity to study the powers to be conferred upon the commission or the scope of its work, and in that way determine whether it differs in any material respects from the previous commission. The Royal Commission on the Constitution recommended not only that the InterState Commission should be reconstituted, but also that it should have the right, by an amendment of sections 71 and 72 of the Constitution, to exercise the judicial powers which the act of 1912 purported to confer upon it. I regret that no steps were taken to adopt this recommendation, which, incidentally, urged that the retiring age for judges should be fixed at 72 years. On page 250 the report proceeded - 
The same permanent body should, we think, inquire into and report upon such transactions as the agreement between the governments of the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland relating to the purchase and disposal of the sugar crop and the embargo on  imported raw sugar, and inquire into and report on proposed bounties, and the effect of the Navigation Act on the various States. 
The advantage of the establishment of such a body for these purposes would, we think, be twofold. There would be a tribunal in existence equipped with a knowledge of Australian conditions and of the working of the federation, and the claims of necessitous States would no longer afford an opening to the benevolence or the opportunism of political parties. Au analogy may be found in the position of the Public Works Committee in the Commonwealth, and in some of the States. Public works costing more than a prescribed amount will not in normal circumstances be sanctioned by Parliament unless favorably reported on by the Public Works Committee, and in our opinion it would be to the advantage of the federation if it were provided by law that grants under section 00 were not to be made unless first recommended by such a body as the Inter-State Commission. 
In making these recommendations wo have not overlooked the fact that some of the duties originally assigned to the  Inter-State  Commission have been curried out by other bodies, and that very important duties are now carried out by the Development and Migration Commission. As has been pointed out elsewhere in this report, the value of an Inter-State Commission has been acknowledged by the royal commission which inquired into the finances of Western Australia and by that "which inquired into the finances of South Australia. We do not think that the reasons for the opinions expressed by these royal commissions have been diminished by the proposed appointment of an economic adviser by the Commonwealth. 
In this connexion we would also draw attention to the provisions of the Industrial Peace Act. relating to the appointment of an industrial council, and to the evidence in favour of the appointment of an industrial council or parliament given by  Mr. Kneebone  and  Mr. Sutcliffe,  and to' the suggestion by Professor Cumbrae Stewart that a committee be appointed for the purpose of bringing about uniformity in State laws. Certain of the functions of the industrial council which might be of great value to the Commonwealth might well be carried out by the Inter-State  Commission, and the same body might perform a valuable duty in bringing about uniformity in the laws of the State, particularly in the commercial laws. 
In view of the recommendations and the views expressed by the royal commission which inquired into the finances of Western Australia under federation in 1926, it is perfectly clear that the proposed Inter-State Commission should be required, at the request of any State, to inquire into the effect of any federal law or regulation on the primary industries, finances and trade and commerce of any State. We in Western Australia believe, and we have ample evidence to prove it - I might, in this connexion, refer to the report of the Australian economists who were appointed by the Bruce-Page Government to report on the economic aspects of the tariff - that that State, more than any other, suffers from the burdens of the tariff. In my opinion, the Inter-State Commission will be futile if it does not have undoubted power to inquire into the effects of the tariff, the Navigation Act and other federal laws and restrictions and regulations on the finances, primary industries, and trade and commerce of Western Australia. 
SenatorFoll. - There is nothing to stop it from conducting such an inquiry. 
That is not clear. Under this bill the commission may have power to do so, if so requested by the Commonwealth Parliament. I think that it should be mandatory for it to do so at the request of a State. 
In any case, I propose to move, in committee, an amendment, which, if carried, will bring this bill more into conformity with the act under which the previous commission was set up, and which will require the commission to inquire into and report on the effect and operation of any tariff acts, or any other law or regulation of the Commonwealth, on the primary industries, revenues, manufactures and trade or commerce of any State. 
That is not my present contention. The Tariff Board takes an Australian point of view in recommending duties. It seems to me that the previous I nter-State Commission was required to inquire into the effect of the tariff on any individual State. I fear that unless my amendment be accepted, the work of the commission will be abortive, and that body will prove an expensive and unnecessary luxury. This power was given to the previous commission specifically in the following words :  - 
The commission shall be charged with the duty of investigating from time to time all matters which in the opinion of the commission ought in the public interest to be investigated affecting - 
the effect and operation of any tariff act or other legislation of the Com monwealth in regard to revenue.. Australian manufactures, and industry and trade generally; 
The amendment I propose to move is of similar purport, except that I naturally put in the first place the effect of the tariff on Australian primary industries. The deplorable burdens placed on primary industries by legislation, particularly the tariff, are too well known, and have been recorded by too many Australian commissions to need any elaborating. Even withthe amendment I shall propose, the powers of the proposed commission will be reduced in comparison with those of its predecessor. The report of the Royal Commission on the Constitution, in referring to the legislation under which the original Inter-State Commission was established, said - 
Part III. of the act relates to investigations by the Inter-State Commission, and is divided into two sections- 16 and 17. By section 16 thecommission is charged with the duty of investigating all matters which in its opinion require investigation in the public interests affecting (a) the production of and trade in commodities ; (b) the encouragement, improvement, and extension of Australian industries and manufactures; (c) markets outside Australia, and the opening up of external trade generally ; 
Now follows the paragraph which I wish to see repeated in the present legislation - (d) the effect and operation of any tariff act or other legislation of the Commonwealth in regard to revenue, Australian manufactures, and industry and trade generally; (e) prices of commodities; (f) profits of trade and manufacture; (g) wages and social and industrial conditions;(h) labour, employment and unemployment; (i) bounties paid by foreign countries to encourage shipping or export trade; (j) population; (k) immigration; and (l) other matters referred to the commission by either House of the Parliament, by resolution, for investigation. 
It is perfectly clear, therefore, that the commission to be constituted under the bill which we a.re now considering is not to have anything like the measure of power and wide range of inquiry that were specified for the previous commission. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8p.m. 

The list of subjects in respect of which the new Inter-State Commission is authorized to make investigations indicates that it will have much less work to do. Its judicial duties have also been taken away. It seems to me, from a cursory examination of the bill, that everything in connexion . with the commission has been cut clown except the salaries which the Government, with characteristic federal liberality, fixed at the rates paid to the first commissioners - £2,500 a year for the  chairman  and £2,000 a year for etch member. Part IV. of the bill contains provisions empowering the commission to prevent any State railway authority from fixing unfair and discriminating freight rates, to the disadvantage of other States. It is absurd to confine the authority of the commission to the investigation of freights charged on State railways, anil to exclude any examination of rates imposed by the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner on the transcontinental railway, which carries the interstate traffic between South Australia and Western Australia. 
I doubt this, but the time available for consideration of the bill has been limited. I direct the attention of the right honorable gentleman to clause 21, which reads - 
It shall not he lawful for any State or for any State railway authority, to give or make upon any railway the property of the State, in respect of Inter-State commerce, or so as to affect such commerce, any preference or discrimination which the commission adjudges undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State. 
That is my contention, and I have not yet been able to discover in the bill a provision which would include the transcontinental line. The freights on that railway should be under the commission's review. Australia is served by systems of railway from Cairns to Fremantle, and the freight rates on all of them, except the Commonwealth railways, will be subject to investigation by the Inter-State Commission, with a view to preventing unfair discrimination. This being so, the bill, I believe, inflicts another glaring injustice on the people of Western Australia, because the preferen tial rates charged on the transcontinental railway discriminate unfairly against the primary and secondary industries of that State. The Commonwealth Railways Commissioner is a. law unto himself. On the transcontinental railway he is carrying primary and secondary products from eastern States at rates which pay little more than axle grease. It is difficult, sometimes, to ascertain how low are some of the rates as they are fixed under secret' agreements. I object to the exclusion of the freights and charges on the transcontinental railway from the list of subjects which may be investigated by the proposed commission. The primary and secondary producers in Western Australia should not be penalized in this way. I have a high regard for Commonwealth railway officials, and pay a tribute to them for their courtesy and attention, but I think that, in order to divert traffic to their lines, they would not be averse to imposing preferential rates on many classes of goods. I have given notice of an amendment to ensure some measure of (protection to our primary and secondary industries from the unfair freight rates that are charged on the transcontinental railway, and I shall depend oh the good sense and fairmindedness of the Senate to support me. I hope that the Minister will accept the amendment, the effect of which will be to bring the transcontinental line under the control of the Inter-State Commission as regards freight rates and other charges. 
I welcome the measure and congratulate the Minister upon its introduction. I trust that the bill will be passed with the amendments indicated by me. I also hope that no political appointments will be made to the commission, and particularly the political appointments which have been predicted in the press. Sincethat body will have an important work to do, its members should have the highest qualifications; that is essential. We should be able to obtain from our universities the services of prominent economists or highly trained constitutional lawyers. Perhaps, also, the Government will be able to select a suitable appointee from our efficient Public Service. Great care should be exercised in  making the appointments, because the welfare of the smaller States and the smooth working of the federal machine will depend on the efficient functioning of the new body. The Commonwealth Public Service Act stipulates that a public servant must retire when he reaches the age of 65 years. That is generally regarded as a wise provision, and I hope that it will be applied to members of the new Inter-State Commission. 
.- I indicated yesterday that I was in favour of this measure, and gave briefly my reasons for supporting it. I was interested a little while ago, to hear the Leader of the Opposition state the definition of a pessimist. I regard the honorable gentleman as an optimistic pessimist and would say that the difference between a pessimist and an optimistic pessimist is this - a pessimist is a man who fears that the worst will happen; an optimistic pessimist is a man who hopes and believes that the worst will happen. 
Anybody would think, from the remarks of honorable senators in opposition, that the Commonwealth had been standing still for the last twenty years; but no one with his eyes open could have failed to notice the remarkable development that has taken place in all branches of industry since the Inter-State Commission was abolished. 
It is evident to every one that the conditions affecting trade and commerce in Australia have materially altered. In recent years there has been a surprising increase of governmental activities. The new conditions that have arisen point to the absolute necessity for the reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission. My only regret is that the commission will not have the judicial powers which the Parliament intended the original commission to have. It may be that the Commonwealth will have to take drastic steps against some of the States, thereby placing itself in an awkward position ; but if it has the backing of the commission it can proceed against the offending States without being accused of bias. In some respects the relations between the States are deplorable, as, for instance, in respect of interstate freights. Such things should not exist in a country which is supposed to be federated. Objection has been raised to the reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission on the ground of expense, but as it will replace the Commonwealth Grants Commission, the additional expenditure will not be great. The existing body already costs more than half the estimated expenditure on the new commission. 

 Senator Johnston seems to be afraid that, with the passing of this legislation, the Commonwealth railways will engage in a campaign against Western Australia. The honorable senator seems obsessed by the idea that every man's hand is against the western State. That is not so ; every honorable senator entertains the kindliest feelings for Western Australia, but the extreme remarks of the honorable senator on occasions tend to make other honorable senators feel that their sympathy is wasted. The honorable senator is wrong in his judgment of his fellows both in this Parliament and outside it. 
I understand that the chief complaint of  Senator Johnston  and others from Western Australia is in respect of railway freights to Kalgoorlie, and relates particularly to beer from the eastern States. 
It would appear that the drinkers of beer in Kalgoorlie prefer beer brewed in Adelaide to that of the Swan Brewery at Perth. The honorable senator should calm his fears, for he has only to read Part III. of the bill to realize that the committee may inquire into and report to the GovernorGeneral upon any anomalies, preferences, or discriminations, alleged to exist in relation to interstate commerce. If railway freights are not associated with interstate commerce, I do not know what is. Under this legislation the commission may investigate the grievance which the honorable senator has voiced, and should it find that the complaint is well founded, I cannot imagine that any Common- wealth Government would fail to take immediate action to remove the cause of complaint. 1 hope tha't there will he no opposition to the bill. I should like the commission to be vested with the judicial powers that it was thought the Constitution provided, but, even in the absence of those powers, I believe that it will be of great value in removing anomalies and the bad feeling which is growing between the States. 
 The policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  at the last general election stated that the Government intended to introduce legislation to re-constitute the Inter-State Commission. That plank of the Government's platform was hailed with delight in South Australia, and I am pleased that effect is about to be given to the promise. Like  Senator Leckie,  I regret that, by a decision of the High Court in  1915,  some of the powers which were thought to be vested in the original Inter-State Commission were declared not. to repose in it. In setting out the duties of the new commission the bill makes no attempt to clothe it with judicial powers.  Senator Johnston  fears that the commission will not be empowered to deal with the tariff and the navigation laws, but the bill clearly says that it will have power to inquire into " any matter " that is referred to it by any State or by the Governor-General. By innuendo, some honorable senators have suggested that political appointmentsare to be made to the commission, and they have given, the impression that they know the names of the persons who are to fill some of the positions. I have not the remotest idea of the .Government's intention in regard to the personnel of the commission. 
Objection has been taken to what is claimed to be an omission from the bill in that it does not provide that the legal member of the commission shall be its  chairman.  I do not think that he should be. Indeed, there will be some advantages in not having a legal  chairman.  But it is essential that the commission shall contain one member with legal knowledge and training.  Senator J.  V. MacDonald expressed the opinion that one member should be a representative of Labour. 
The honorable senator need not fear that the Lyons Government will act unfairly in selecting men for this important position; it will appoint only men of undoubted integrity and ability, who may be relied upon to act fairly, whatever their political beliefs. 
As a representative of one of the weaker States, I express the hope that, with the appointment of an Inter-State Commission, there will be greater permanency in respect of grants to the -States. I have no fault to find with the Commonwealth Grants Commission, except that it does not provide that permanency which is most desirable in the making of grants. State treasurers should have definite knowledge beforehand of the amounts that they are to receive, so that they may prepare their budgets on a satisfactory basis. 

 Senator Leckie referred to the power of the commission in relation to railway  freights. In this connexion, I anticipate that the commission will materially assist some of the weaker States. South Australia, for instance, suffers considerably through having two wealthy neighbours in Victoria and New South "Wales. For many years, almost the whole of the trade with Broken Hill was done with South Australia, but, with the construction of a railway line connecting Broken Hill with Sydney, much of the trade has been diverted from South Australia. Although the distance between Broken Hill and Sydney is about  700  miles, as compared with a little over half that distance from Broken Hill to Adelaide, the freight charges on both railways are practically the same. Victoria has treated South Australia in much the same w(ay. For many years, wool from stations in the Darling country of New South "Wales was conveyed by river to Morgan and then sent by train a further  100  miles to Adelaide. Now, however, much of the wool is transferred from the boat to the train at Mildura, and conveyed to Melbourne, a distance of  300  miles, for no more than it costs to send it  100  miles in South Australia. I am looking forward to the Inter-State Commission doing much for South Australia in the matter of railway freights. I support the bill, not for that reason alone, but because the appointment of an Inter-State Commission should be of benefit to the whole of Australia. Its existence should obviate the necessity to appoint numerous small commissions. I hope, also, that it will not be a body disinclined to deal with small matters for fear of loss of dignity. When appointed, the commission should be used in every way possible, with a view to avoiding unnecessary expense in the appointment of other investigatory bodies. I may have something further to say when the bill is being considered in committee. At this juncture I favour the passage of the measure. I believe that it will be welcomed by at least the representatives of the three weaker States. 
 I do not propose to deal with those points which I covered during my speech on the Address-in-Reply, when I outlined my reasons for supporting this measure and complimented the Government on its introduction. My principal reason for supporting the reconstitution of tlie Inter-State Commission is that such a body will enjoy security of tenure, in contrast to the Commonwealth Grants Commission, which was appointed from year to year. When it last visited Western Australia the latter body spent only ten days in that State, and five of those days were spent in the country districts. I suggest that in so limited a time it was impossible for it to inquire fully into the claims of Western Australia. The Inter-State Commission should be able, if necessary, to spend six months in any one State in order that its investigations may be as thorough as possible. Before the InterState Commission representatives of the smaller States will he given every opportunity to set out clearly their disabilities and the grounds on which they claim grants from the Commonwealth. It is for this reason, principally, that I support the bill. 
I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that it is time that a convention was held to review the Constitution. The deliberations of such a convention would remove many of the causes of the ill-feeling which the smaller. States now exhibit towards the more populous States, and, if it served no other purpose, it would at least bring the various units of the nation into a more harmonious relationship. For this reason 1 hope that steps will be taken in the near future to convene a convention for that purpose. 
I disagree with the suggestion made by the Leader of the Opposition that no need exists for the appointment of this commission, because, so he claimed, the job could be done equally as well by  a  Minister, assisted by an expert staff. I suggest to the honorable senator that, at certain times, on the eve of an election, for instance, if he wore a Minister he would not relish being called to adjudicate in a dispute arising', for instance, out of the landing of goods in New South Wales from Queensland. However, I agree with his contention that no political appointments should be made to the commission. 
In all circumstances I shall express what I have in mind ; I am not influenced by the decisions of any political caucus. In Western Australia I have witnessed several political appointments of the nature to which I refer, and I have consistently protested against them. I propose to follow a similar course at all times.  Senator J.  V. MacDonald suggested that a gentleman with Labour political sympathies should bc appointed to the commission. I disagree with him ; this tribunal should be kept free of politics. 
-I shall not bc mean enough to believe that that will be so. I hope that the Government will appoint men who are above party politics. 
There arc plenty of them. The only comment which I wish to offer in respect of the Commonwealth Grants Commission is that it was impossible for a claimant State to receive justice from that body, because the States put up their case on a certain basis, and that commission assessed it on another. I feel sure that all honorable senators appreciate the need for the reconstitution of the Inter-State Commission in order to give full effect to the Constitution. 
Whilst I do not propose to delve into ancient history, let me say that we in Western Australia have felt all along that we have not received justice from the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It is my fervent hope that, while I represent Western Australia in this chamber, I shall win support and sympathy for that State by advancing its just claims in a fair manner; I realize that I cannot  hope to win such support by abusing other States. On at least one occasion since I was elected to this chamber I have had the pleasure of submitting a motion on behalf of Western Australia, and although that proposal was defeated, I received sufficient support to encourage mo to continue my advocacy along those lines. Indeed, I am thankful that, included among my supporters on the occasion to which I refer, were the only members of the Opposition then present; I feel sure that I would have received the support of the other honorable senator opposite had he been present. 
I ask the Minister, when he is replying, to clear up the point raised by  Senator Johnston  that, whilst all the State railways will be brought within the jurisdiction of the Inter-State Commission, the Commonwealth railways may be exempt. In this connexion I draw the attention of honorable senators to section 102 of the Constitution, which reads -  102. The Parliament may by any law with respect to trade or commerce forbid, as to railways, any preference or discrimination by any State, or by any authority constituted under a. State, if such preference or discrimination is undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State; due regard being had to the financial responsibilities incurred by any State in connexion with the construction and maintenance of its railways. But no preference or discrimination shall, within the meaning of this section be taken to be undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State, unless so adjudged by the Inter-State Commission. 
It is possible that the work of the InterState Commission may relate to the provisions of this seddon of the Constitution. I have very much pleasure in supporting the bill. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External 
Affairs) [S.39]. -  in reply  - I thank honorable senators for the very favorable reception they have given this measure, although there have been some spots on the sun, as  it  were.  Senator Collings  does not seem to be altogether satisfied with it, but, then, he is generally dissatisfied with any proposal that emanates from the Government. I tremble to think of what the life of a Minister would be  when  Senator Collings  had accomplished all his desires; it is just about as strenuous now as it could possibly be, but if in addition to his administrative and political duties, a Minister was obliged to take the place of boards and commissions, and conduct innumerable inquiries, dissecting all the evidence presented, as the honorable senator suggested, his life would be unbearable. 
I remind  Senator Allan  MacDonald and  Senator Marwick  in regard to the vexatious question of freights on . the Commonwealth railway between Kalgoorlie and Port Augusta that that is a railway taking part in interstate commerce.  Senator Marwick  has just read the appropriate section of the Constitution, and, of course, in Part IV. this  bill must conform to the Constitution; it cannot purport to do more than the Constitution provides. Part IV. contains the machinery by which, first of all, an investigation and a report must be made; and if discrimination, or undue preference, is found and not adjusted, redress must be sought by litigation before the High Court. Thus Part IV. contemplates litigation before the High Court. Who would be the parties to such litigation? In the case of the State railways authorities it is clear that it would be either the State government concerned, or a body nominated by that government, or the railway authorities of that State. And who would be the prosecutor to plead before the High Court the facts as found by the Inter-State Commission? He would be the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth. Now, I remind honorable senators that the Commonwealth railways are run under Commonwealth law, and the freights are fixed either by regulations, or by-laws, which are Commonwealth law. Thus, if the Commonwealth railways were sued in the High Court, the Commonwealth AttorneyGeneral would appear as the legal officer for the Commonwealth railways. Thus, if the Commonwealth railways were included within the scope of Part IV., and the commission found that rates on these railways were discriminating, we would have the spectacle of the Commonwealth Attorney-General, under the machinery provided in this bill, prosecuting himself as the Commonwealth Attorney-General - a truly Gilbertian situation. For that reason Part IV. of this measure cannot be applied to the Commonwealth railways. I assured  Senator Johnston,  however, when he was speaking, that the Commonwealth railways do come within the scope of this bill, and I now give-  Senator Allan  MacDonald and  Senator Marwick  the same assurance. If those honorable senators will refer to clause 18 they will find that - 
Tlie commission shall inquire into and report to the Governor-General upon - 
any anomalies, preferences or discriminations alleged to exist in relation to Inter-State commerce; 
Is not a complaint against the Commonwealth railways that there has been discrimination and preference within tlie meaning of paragraph a? I turn now to clause 20 - 
The commission may commence any investigation pursuant to- paragraphs (a) and (6) of sub-section (1.) of section 18, either on reference by the Governor-General or on the complaint of any State. 
If the Government of Western Australia felt that there had been unjust discrimination by the Commonwealth railway authorities, it would be its duty to lodge a complaint with the Inter-State Commission in accordance with clause 18 1 a of the bill. The complaint having been made, the commission will' have full power to conduct an inquiry and deliver its finding. A.s  Senator Leckie  pointed out, although the Commonwealth Attorney-General cannot prosecute himself, there will be, assuming that the complaint has been proved, the report of the Inter-State Commission that the Commonwealth Railways Department is giving undue preference or discriminating in relation to interstate commerce. With that finding before it, would any Commonwealth government continue to uphold a Commonwealth law, regulation, or by-law, which contraverted  that fundamental principle of its own legislation? It is unthinkable. Therefore, those honorable senators who raised this point should see that this matter is fully provided for, and that it cannot be covered in the way suggested by  Senator Johnston,  because the Commonwealth Government would find itself in the ridiculous position which I mentioned previously. Moreover, that is why it is not specifically provided for in the Constitution. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, and a State could bring a case before the High Court. 
I come now to the point raised by  Senator Grant  in connexion with clause 19, which reads - 
The Governor-General may cause any report made under paragraphs  (a),  (6) or (c) of sub-section (1.) of the last preceding section to be laid before each House of the Parliament, and shall, before any proposed law relating to the subject of the report originates in the Parliament, cause the report to bo laid before each House thereof. 
I have circulated an amendment to leave out paragraphs  a, b  or c with a view to insert in lieu thereof paragraphs  c, d  or e. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.This clause relates to claimsdealing with grants, and not to any others. The reason is fairly obvious. Honorable senators are aware that the report of a commission covering financial grants to States is a very important factor in a Commonwealth budget, and therefore the Government would have to take into consideration the report of the commission, because subsequently it would have to be the subject of budget legislation. The Government might receive a report while Parliament was in session, but before it had decided upon the budget it proposed to submit to Parliament. An obligation upon the Government to table the report immediately it was received would be most embarrassing, and would by no means relieve the uncertainty of the State Treasurer, because he would not know the decision which the Commonwealth Government would reach upon the recommendation. The Commonwealth Treasurer, also, would be embarrassed if the report were made public before he had drafted his budget, because all sorts of pressure would be put upon him in respect of that one feature. Legislation of some kind must follow the presentation of the report, and when the Government brings it3 budget before Parliament it will also table the report. Before Parliament will be asked to agree to the Government's proposals it will have before it the report of the InterState Commission, so that it will not be in any worse position under this bill than it is to-day. Each year the Parliament is in possession of the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission before the budget is proceeded with. 

 Senator Grant also referred to the tenure of members of the Inter-State Commission. The term fixed in the bill is that prescribed in the Constitution, and cannot be amended by this legislation. 

 Senator Johnston, who foreshadowed an amendment, suggested that there should be a specific instruction to the commission as to the factors upon which a State may claim financial assistance from the Commonwealth. There is a well-known legal maxim,inclusio  unius exclusio alterius  - the inclusion of the one means the exclusion of the other. I understand that the insertion of a provision to include certain things is held in law to exclude all others. I urge those interested in this matter to read carefully the following paragraphs of clause 18: - 
any matters relating to grants for financial assistance . . . 
any matters relating to the making of any grants of financial assistance; and 
any matters concerning the financial relations between the Commonwealth and any State. 
The words " any matters " include the tariff, the Navigation Act, or, in fact, any disability under which a State feels that it suffers. The State is the judge - that is the virtue of this measure - upon what basis it will make its claim for a. grant. 
To my mind, there is one factor in Western Australia's claim which obtains to a greater extent in that State than in any other -  Senator Marwick  mentioned it - and that is that one-sixteenth of the population of Australia is endeavouring to develop, one-third of the Commonwealth . 
In my judgment this part of this country that we have been passing through in the last few weeks, will ono day carry a greater population than any part of Australia that I have ever  seen. 
The extraordinary part of that prophecy is that there are only a few more white people in that area to-day than there were when  Sir George  Grey went through it. We cannot envisage the future of that vast area. Its development and the responsibility of the State Government in that regard might be the strongest element in Western Australia's claim; with greater financial assistance one-third of the Commonwealth might be successfully developed by one-sixteenth of its population. I appeal to honorable senator not to begin to particularize, but to remember that a State can base a claim before the proposed commission on any ground, whether it be the tariff, the Navigation Act, or even that responsibility with which I have just dealt. Once we start to particularize, we may weaken the claim of a State we are desirous of assisting. I thank honorable senators for the way in which they have received the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 - 
The Governor-General shall, as soon as conveniently practicable, appoint three persons to be Commissioners, and on the happen ing of any vacancy in the office of Commissioner, the Governor-General shall appoint a person to the vacant office. 

 Senator E. B. JOHNSTON  (Western Australia [9.3].- I move - 
That at tlie end of sub-clause ], the following proviso bo inserted: - 
Provided that no person who has attained the age of G5 years shall bc appointed as a commissioner. 
I prefer to do so. 
I am hitting at no one. What I am hitting at is the non-recognition of the principle laid down in the Commonwealth Public Service Act that a man may not continue in the Service after he has attained the age of 65 years. That rule obtains throughout the Public Service with much greater severity than I would impose by my amendment on the Inter-State Commissioners. Those men who control our great departments of State, and who make public service their life work, are required to retire when they reach 65 years of age and this principle has been accepted by all parties in .this Parliament. Quite recently, we have seen such distinguished men as the former Commonwealth Statistician,  Mr. Wickens,  and the Commissioner of Taxation in Western Australia,  Mr. Black,  forced to retire on their attainment of that age. Under the same rule,  Mr. E.  W. Parkes recently retired from the position of  Clerk  of . the House of Representatives, and  Sir William  Clemens from the position of  Chairman  of the Public Service Board. The same requirement will shortly apply to the Secretary to the Department of Defence,  Mr. Shepherd,  to  Mr. Ewing,  the Commissioner of Taxation, .and ultimately to other equally prominent departmental heads. To some extent my amendment is in conformity with the recommendation of the Royal Commission on the Constitution that judges shall retire when they reach 72 years of age. We do not want a commission composed of septuagenarians. 
Because when men are appointed under this proposed act, no retiring age can be applied to them; they will he appointed for the full term of seven years. If a public servant is compelled to retire at a certain age, no other servants of the Crown should be permitted to commence the highly importantduties of the Interstate Commission after reaching that age. 
SenatorAllanMacDonald. - How canwe apply that principle to any one else until we have first applied it to ourselves? 
The conditions are entirely different, but if the honorable senator brings down a bill with that object in view Ishall give to it my earnest consideration. 
[9.8].-The Government cannot accept the amendment. Any government making appointments of this kind would take into consideration the age and physical fitness of. the appointees and other relevant factors. The important point is to get the best men available. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 17 agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
[ 9.13]. -The fact thata tariff schedule becomes operative immediately it is tabled in the House ofRepre- sentatives renders it necessary that the resolutions contained therein shall be laid before that House before they otherwise become public. I understand that in the past, when a new schedule was tabled in the Lower House, copies were placed in the lockers of senators and members. I shall ascertain if that course has been followed in this instance. 
Question resolved inthe affirmative. 
The Senate adjourned at9.14 p.m. 
 by leave  - I have made inquiries and find that the tariff resolutions to which  Senator Leckie  referred last night were distributed in the usual way before the dinner adjournment last evening. They were placed in the letter boxes of honorable senators, but there were not sufficient copies to hand round in the chamber. 
 by leave  - I have here a copy of the  Canberra Times,  of to-day's date, containing what is alleged to be a report of the debate on the Inter-State Commission Bill in the Senate yesterday. Dealing with  Senator E.  B. Johnston's criticism that no provision had been made in the bill by which Commonwealth railway freights could be inquired into, I am reported as having said - 
If the Common wealth railway was brought under the same provisions as provided for interstate railways, and the commission found that the Commonwealth railway was giving unfair preference or discrimination, they would have the anomaly, if  Senator Johnston's  amendment was carried, of the AttorneyGeneral having to prosecute himself before the High Court to carry out the hoard's finding. For that reason, the Commonwealth railway had been excluded from the provisions. 
That is entirely contrary to what I did say, although the preliminary part of the report is correct. According to an uncorrected  Hansard  proof of my speech I said - 
For that reason Part IV. of this measure cannot he applied to the Commonwealth railways. I assured  Senator Johnston,  however, when he was speaking, that the Commonwealth railways do come within the province of this bill, and I now give  Senator Allan  MacDonald and  Senator Marwick  the same assurance. 
I pointed out that they came under clause 18, from which I then quoted. 
 by leave  - In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 24th June, the following statement appeared in a leader entitled " National Insurance " : - 
A conference of Federal and State Governments is to be held in August, promptly after the Prime Minister's return, to debate not only the merging of present overlapping services, but also the constitutional difficulty of federal powers under the Constitution.Without employment cover the present scheme would be shorn of its chief recommendation to the immense body of the public. Yet trade and industry are powers reserved for State sovereignty and not that of the Commonwealth. The Canadian Government's Employment and Social Insurance Act of 1935 crashed upon precisely this rock; the Privy Council, upon reference, held last January that the Dominion Parliament's legislation was  ultra vires  the Constitution, since trade and industry are provincial powers, and that the Federal Act was an encroachment. Alone, therefore, Parliament in Canberra cannot legislate for insurance affecting industrial contracts. Experience of referendum submissions suggests that the course to-day must be for the States to hand over the necessary powers to the Commonwealth. 
I now ask the Leader of the Senate if he will have made available to honorable senators a synopsis of the Canadian case to which reference is made in the article. Although the Canadian and Australian Constitutions differ in some respects there is a great deal of similarity between them, and the synopsis for which I have asked would be of considerable value to honorable senators. 
When an honorable senator asks for leave to make a statement based on a newspaper paragraph, it is assumed that he himself is affected by the paragraph. So far as I can judge from the statement which the honorable senator has read, he is not implicated. Unless he is personally concerned to the extent of having been misrepresented or misreported by a press statement, an honorable senator should not adopt the procedure that has been adopted by  Senator James  McLachlan this morning. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Was evidence received in Australia by  Sir Walter  Kin near and  Mr. G.  H. Ince, the visiting experts on National Insurance? 
Why was  Mr. C.  H. Iffla, the  President  of the Australian Pensioners' League, refused permission to give evidence before these gentlemen? 

 Senator SIR GEORGE PEARCE. The information is being obtained and will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received a resolution from the Primary Producers' Association of Western Australia, urging that Australian steamship companies - such as the Wesfarmers Shipping Line - should be given the right to share the advantages conferred on the Australian Overseas Transport Association, under the provisions of the Australian Industries Preservation Act 1900-1930? 
If so, what decision has been arrived at in the matter? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers to the honorable senators questions : - 1 and 2. Early in the negotiations between the Government, ship-owners and shippers in regard to rates of freight on certain Australian export commodities, the Primary Producers' Association of Western Australia made representations somewhat on the lines set out in the above question. These representations were subsequently withdrawn when satisfactory agreement was reached between Westralian Farmers' and the Oversea Shipping Representatives' Association. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What are the details of the freight reductions made by the Oversea Shipping Representatives Association on Australian exports? 
Have shipping freights to Australia been increased recently, or has an announcement been made to the effect that such freights are to be increased? 
What were the freights on wheat and metals a year ago and what are they to-day? 
Wool -1/8d. per lb. 
Fresh apples and pears - 3d. a case. 
Chilled beef- l/16d. per lb. 
The Commonwealth Government has not had any negotiations in regard to freight rates to Australia, and has not made any announcement in regard thereto. 
Wheat - Charter rates in June 1936 varied around 25s. per ton. At present they vary around 50s. per ton. 
Metals - Full details will be foundin the Quarterly Summary of Australia Statistics. As far as the Commonwealth Government is aware, there has not been any change during the last twelve months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
If he has read the reports of the sale of apples in London and Liverpool this week? 
If it is a fact that the prices obtained barely pay expenses and leave practically nothing for growers? 
Will the Government give consideration to this matter, and make the grant to growers this year more liberal than last year? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
Yes. 
It is noticed that prices have fallen from previous high levels, hut the Government is not in a position to say whether growers are receiving practically nothing. 
The Government has not received representations from growers. It is understood that growers have freely sold their fruit to agents, who may have incurred losses owing to the fall in London prices. 
asked the Minister in Charge of Development,  upon notice - 
What are the names of the companies prospecting for oil in New Guinea and Papua who have received advances from the Government? 
What amounts have been paid to date? 
SenatorSIRGEORGEPEARCE.The answer to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 1 and 2. No advances have been made under the Petroleum Oil Search Acts1936 to companies for the purpose of prospecting in New Guinea or Papua. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister bring under the notice of the Minister for the Interior the fact that owing to the layout of roads within the City of Canberra, visitors find extreme difficulty in finding their location or retaining the geography of the road system? 
In view of these difficulties will the Minister consider the advisability of introducing the coloured road scheme (either strip or full road colour) as used in the United States of America, especially the City of Philadelphia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
Yes. 
The matter will be investigated by the Department of the Interior. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister  upon notice - 
On what date was the most recent reclassification of officers in charge of Commonwealth Departments in the various States declared ? 
Oil what date did the resultant increases in salaries take effect? 
What was the increase in each of the salary grades in the different Departments in each of the States? 
[11.13].- I move- 
That the Senate approves of the distribution of the State of Western Australia into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs. R. H. Bandy, J. P. Camm and S. R. H. Roberts, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of distributing the said State into Divisions, in their report laid before Parliament on the seventeenth day of June, 1937, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the report be adopted. 
Following the census taken on the 30th June, 1933, commissioners were appointed, pursuant to the provisions of the Electoral Act, to propose a redistribution of the Electoral Divisions in the States of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia. The respective commissioners duly submitted their proposals, and those relating to the States of New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia, were adopted and given effect prior to the general elections held on the 15th September, 1934. With regard, however, to the States of Victoria and Western Australia, the commissioners' original proposals were disapproved by the House ofRepresentatives, and as time did not permit of fresh proposals being obtained and dealt with before the dissolution, the 1934 elections in the States mentioned necessarily had to be held on the then existing boundaries. Subsequently a direction was issued to the commissioners for these two States to submit fresh re-distribution proposals. These were received, and while the proposals in respect of the State of Victoria were, in due course, adopted, those in respect of the State of Western Australia were, on the 14th May, 1936, again disapproved by the House of Representatives, mainly with the object of enabling further proposals to be submitted by the Commissioners On the basis of up-to-date figures. The previous proposals for the redistribution of the electoral divisions in Western Australia were based on the enrolment figures as at the 30th December, 1933. On those figures the Division of Kalgoorlie was considerably below the allowable minimum, and, therefore, the Commissi oners were compelled i n any scheme of redistribution based thereon to increase the territory of that already extremely large division. Since 1933. however, the enrolment for Kalgoorlie division has advanced at a much greater rate than that of any other division in the State, and when the last proposals were disapproved that division was already well within the margin permitted by law. In the circumstances it was considered advisable to obtain entirely new proposals based on up-to-date figures, and accordingly a fresh proclamation directing a redistribution of the electoral divisions in Western Australia was issued in October last, and the proposals now before the House, based on the enrolment as at the 31st October, 1936, are the outcome. These proposals were duly published by the Commissioners as required by the Electoral Act before submitting their report, and as no objections or suggestions were lodged in respect of them within the period of 30 days allowed therefor, it would appear that they are wholly acceptable to the electors of the State concerned. 
The principal features of the proposals are, first, that provision is made for a reduction of the size of the extremely extensive Division of Kalgoorlie by transferring therefrom a considerable portion of the Subdivision of Irwin, and, secondly, that by re-arranging the boundaries of the Divisions of Freemantle, Perth and Swan, not only is a more equitable distribution of representation provided for, but also greater effectiveness is given to the principle of community of interest than obtains at present. Having due regard to the provisions of the Electoral Act, I commend the proposals now before the Senate as making for a fair and reasonable distribution of the electoral divisions in the State of Western Australia, and urge their approval accordingly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move- 
That after paragraph (b) the following paragraph be inserted: - (ba) the effect and operation of any tariff act or other law or regulation of the Commonwealth on primary industries, revenue, manufactures or trade and commerce in any State or States. 
I can see no objection to the commission conducting such an inquiry, if it is to have any real power to assist the weaker States against the repression of the tariff, or if it is to exercise the same power as the previous commission had. In the remarks made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  last night, it would appear that I require this merely as a basis for grants to the State. It is nothing of the kind. Sub-clause c deals with that aspect - 
The commission shall inquireinto and report to the Governor -General upon - 
applications made by any State to the Commonwealth for the grant by the Parliament of financial assistance in pursuance of section ninety-six of the Constitution; 
But I want the commission to have the power to inquire into the effects of the  tariff and Commonwealth laws and regulations, quite apart from the matter of grants to States. I want the commission to have this power in order that it may give relief to primary producers, or any other section of the community, in any State or States, adversely affected by the tariff. 
Relief of the nature that the first royal commission on the disabilities of Western Australia under federation recommended in 1925. 
Pardon me, it was not. It. recommended that, by a constitutional alteration, Western Australia should have, for 25 years, control of its own tariff - I wish those who suffer from the tariff to receive real relief of that nature - or be given such other relief as might be thought fit by the Inter-State Commission after a full inquiry into the facts. It is quite likely that the Inter-State Commission, if it had delegated to it the power for which my amendment provides, would recommend, as did the Royal Commission in 1925, that Western Australia should have fiscal autonomy for a period of 25 years. Of course, if the commission had power to inquire into the tariff and other federal laws, it might evolve some remedy that does not occur to me in the hasty consideration which the committee has to give to the bill. If, however, we are going to withhold from it a power which was specifically given to its predecessor to investigate tariff matters, the whole work of the commission is going tobe rendered, if "not abortive, then of much less value to the smaller States than was the work of the previous commission, which  inter alia  was empowered to investigate the following : - 
The effect and operation of any tariff act or other legislation of the Commonwealth in regard to revenue, Australian manufactures, and industry and trade generally. 
That is a power similar to the one which I seek in my amendment. In fact, I adopted the same wording, giving prominence, however, to primary industries. 
The previous commission had power finally to investigate other matters referred to it by either House of the Parliament by resolution. 
I know. Power for the commission to investigate the incidence of the tariff and other federal laws at' the request of the State was given specifically in the previous act, and it should be continued in this legislation. Why not make it clear that if any State thinks that it suffers from the Navigation Act or any other Commonwealth law or regulation, it has the right to have its complaint investigated by the commission? Why should not the commission have a direction to inquire into these matters? We want something more than a general provision, which may or may not be regarded as conclusive. Yesterday,  Senator Pearce  tried to floor me with a Latin quotation. I am not floored, and I am not discouraged from proceeding with this amendment which is essential if the case of the smaller States is to receive due consideration by the commission. A Latin tag dug up from ministerial legal archives has nothing to do with the present and future needs of Western Australia, or with its position under the burden of high tariff protection. 
[11.25].- First I point  out  to  Senator Johnston  that it is not wise to seek to re-enact a provision of the Act of 1912 without considering what has been done since. When that law was passed the Tariff Board was not in existence, and the intention then was that the commission should have, amongst other duties, those now entrusted to the Tariff Board. In 1921, the Tariff Board Act was passed, and section 15 2 provides - 
The Minister may refer to the board for their inquiry and report the following matters : - 
The general effect of the working of the Customs Tariff and the Excise Tariff, in relation to the primary and secondary industries of the Commonwealth ; 
The fiscal and industrial effects of the customs laws of the Commonwealth : 
The incidence between the rates of duty on raw materials and on finished or partly finished products; and 
Any other matter in any way effecting the encouragement of primary or secondary industries in relation to the tariff. 
The first objection to  Senator Johnston's  amendment is that, if it were carried, there would be two authorities doing exactly the same class of investigation. 
Parliament has placed the obligation on the Tariff Board to investigate the effect of the tariff on all industries, whether they be primary or secondary, and I repeat that if  Senator Johnston's  amendment be carried, we shall have two bodies doing the same class of work.  Senator Johnston  referred to the Royal Commisison into the disabilities of Western Australia in 1925, but he did not read to the Senate what that commission was charged to do. Here is the patent which was issued to the commission - 
Know ye that we do by these our letters patent issued in our name by our GovernorGeneral of our Commonwealth of Australia, acting with the advice of our Federal Executive Council, and in pursuance of the Constitution of our said Commonwealth the Royal Commissions Act 1902-1912, and all other powers himthereunto enabling, appoint you to be commissioners to inquire into and report upon the effect of federation upon the financial position of the State of Western Australia, and as to any special financial disability suffered by that State as a result of federation which is not suffered by the other States of the Commonwealth, and to recommend what steps should be taken to remedy such financial disability, if any, sufferedby that State. 
As I said last night, all that that commission said could be done by the InterState Commission can be done under the paragraphs in this clause, to which  Senator Johnston  wishes to add the following paragraph : - " (ba) The effect and operation of any Tariff Act or other law or regulation of the Commonwealth on primary industries, revenue, manufactures or trade and commerce in any State or States." 
This is already provided for in the Tariff Board Act, and if a State wants an inquiry as to the effects of Commonwealth law on the financial position of the State, or on its industries, it can move the commission under paragraphs  d, e  andf. 
I gave honorable senators that assurance last night, not on my own authority, but on the authority of the legal advisers of the Commonwealth; the services of those officers are available to honorable senators also. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.They are in the chamber to assist Ministers and honorable senators who wish to be informed on any legal points.  Senator Johnston  will find that the matters covered by his amendment can be fully inquired into and reported upon by the commission under the powers set out in paragraphs  d, e  andf. The Inter-State Commission will have power to assess the facts and the finanical disabilities ofany State, and that is a point in which Western Australia is particularly interested. In these circumstances, I suggest that the amendment is entirely unnecessary. 
The amendment moved by  Senator Johnston  is identical with an amendment moved some time ago by the honorable member for Swan  (Mr. Gregory)  to the Commonwealth Grants Commission Bill. The powers of the Inter-State Commission are sufficiently wide, and are much more comprehensive than those of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Having obtained legal advice on the subject, I have not the slightest doubt in this matter; otherwise I would support the amendment moved by  Senator Johnston.  The Inter-State Commission will have sufficient power to inquire into any disabilities which Western Australia, or, in fact, any other State, may suffer. If we start to itemize by including subjects which should be inquired into, it will be necessary to include everything. The work of the commission in Western Australia should be much broader than of assessing the disabilities of that State due to federation. For instance, it will have powerto inquire fully into the disability which Western Australia Buffers owing to the enormous area of country which the government and people of that State must develop in the interests of national security. Western Australia with its comparatively small population and large productive capacity also suffers the disability of being far removed from the 'big consuming centres in the Commonwealth. Having perused the bill most carefully, and obtained legal advice, I feel that the powers of the commission are sufficiently comprehensive to enable it to inquire into any claim which a State may make. In these circumstances, I trust that  Senator Johnston  will withdraw his amendment. 
 This important measure provides for the reconstitution of the InterState Commission to ensure that the States individually will receive a fair deal as 'between one another, and that the States as a whole will obtain just treatment from the Commonwealth. Honorable senators will recall those wise wor ds of that fine statesman, the late  Mr. Alfred  Deakin, that the " Inter-State Commission is the eyes and the ears of the Federal Parliament". Such a commission should he not only the eyes and ears, but also the conscience of this Parliament. I shall state, somewhat briefly, how some of the States and particularly Western Australia will be affected by this measure unless adequate safeguards are provided. I direct the attention of honorable senators, and of  Senator Leckie  particularly, to the fact that, while coastal vessels and transcontinental trains are constantly carrying the products of eastern States to Western Australia, and to one another, there is practically no traffic in goods from Western Australia to the eastern States. Western Australian products are carried principally by overseas vessels to other countries, where they are sold in open competition. The products of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania, and South Australia are sold extensively in the western State; but Western Australia, as a primary-producing State, has to dispose of its products in overseas markets. The tariff policy, which affects Western Australia so detrimentally, both now and hitherto, is one which I helped to create and have always supported, but adequate safeguards are still necessary in this bill to ensure that the people of my State may be compensated in some way for the undoubted losses they incur under the tariff and in other ways. That is the object of  Senator E.'B.  Johnston's amendment. An overwhelming majority of the electors in Western Australia who cast their votes in favour of secession originally resided in the eastern States, but after living in Western Australia for some time, they realized that " something is rotten in the State of Denmark ", and, despite their previous allegiance to and association with eastern States, they supported* the secession movement in an endeavour to secure some measure of justice. We feel aggrieved, and justly so, when asked to support a policy from which we cannot extract any benefits to compensate us for our lossses. Commission after commission has been appointed, and all their reports have told the same story of Western Australia's unsatisfied and unsatisfactory position. In these circumstances, we feel that there is some justification for the complaints we lodge and the requests we make. Jibes are hurled, quite unjustifiably, at the western State. Thirty years ago &amp; newspaper published in the State represented in this chamber by  Senator Leckie  referred to the railway from South Australia to Western Australia as "the desert railway" in an endeavour to convey the impression that such a line would traverse only desert country to an unjustified destination ; that is only one of many instances of the unreasonable prejudice displayed by responsible elements in other States against Western Australia. When I was first elected to this chamber in 1907 I supported a protectionist policy, and from that day to the present, I have advocated reasonable protection in the interests of the Commonwealth. Therefore, I am justified in finding some fault when adequate consideration is not extended to the western State, which is not only a big market for eastern manufacturers, but also actually their feeding ground, if not the fattening paddock for their interests. Although Western Australia imports millions of pounds worth of eastern products, the quantity  of Western Australian produce which the people in the eastern States purchase could be transported in a single train. Honorable senators will therefore see the disabilities under which Western Australia labours. The possibilities of additional development in Western Australia are tremendous, and the Inter-State Commission should have the fullest possible power to inquire into every phase of that States' disabilities and to recommend the best way in which relief can be afforded. Much of the light land which is being worked in Western Australia would be regarded in the eastern States as rubbish; our settlers, in their endeavours to extract a living from the unwilling soil, are doing wonderful work in the face of great handicaps. This fact has a direct bearing upon the proposals in this bill now before the committee, because if settlers in Western Australia do not receive a fair deal they will be forced to abandon their holdings, crowd into the cities, and intensify economic competition in the more populous centres. This they will be provoked to do if they are called upon to carry further unreasonable burdens whilst, at the same time, industries in the eastern States are pandered to by every government, without exception. 
I had experience on the land in Queensland long before the honorable senator was born, and I repeat that land which is being worked in Western Australia would not be even looked at in Queensland. It has been said that Western Australians are all right at the moment, and that their difficulties will be attended to fully in good time. They might be; but history has the habit of repeating itself. I urge, therefore, that provision should be made here, and made emphatically, in this measure, to alleviate those conditions under which Western Australian settlers are obliged to strain every nerve and sinew in order to win a living from the soil. The argument advanced by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  in respect of the amendment now before the committee is that if any specific subjects for inquiry are stipulated in the measure, we shall run the risk of excluding other subjects which may be of equal importance. 
That means if we include one provision which, by unanimous consent, ought to be included - such as is now suggested in  Senator Johnston's  amendment, for instance - we may exclude something of no moment at this stage but which may arise for consideration inthe near or distant future. I recognize the great work achieved by the pioneers who wrote the golden headlines of our early history, and who laid down many great principles for our guidance. But as an example of the necessity for making specific provision for particular cases in our legislation, as  Senator Johnston  now proposes, 1 recall a scene from  The Merchant of Venice.  When Shylock was asked to relent in the bargain he had made with Antonio, he invariably insisted that such and such a concession had not been nominated in the bond. He paid no heed to the pleading of the keeneyed Portia when she pointed out that Antonio's life would be in danger if he insisted on his pound of flesh; again, he replied that no such eventuality was mentioned in the bond. Then, dramatically, the tables were turned when Portia declared that the law of Venice was superior to Shylock's bond, and that if in cutting his pound of flesh he shed one drop of christian blood his lands and goods would be confiscated. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
The honorable senator who has just resumed his seat has painted so dismal a picture of the trying conditions in Western Australia that 1 am prompted to ask him why he made his home in that State. If his description of the difficulties confronting settlers in Western Australia were true it would he impossible for them to remain there. He himself  has lived in the west for many years and he has grown white and honorable in the service of that great State and in the service  of  this Parliament. One  of  the reasons why I welcome this measure is that for quite a number of years representatives of the smaller States, and even senators from New South "Wales, have said in this chamber within my hearing, that the eastern States, the largest of which I represent, are over-bearing in their attitude towards, the smaller States. 
I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the clause under discussion and, in particular, to the amendment submitted by  Senator Johnston.^ 
I want to see that perfect justice, if possible, is done in respect of the smaller States. As a member of the Senate,  I  have no purpose other than to see that the smaller units of this federation receive equitable treatment. I believe that, as the result of the re-constitution of the Inter-State Commission many misunderstandings and difficulties now existing between the smaller and the larger States will be removed. 
I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the clause under consideration. 
 When I was interrupted in my remarks a few minutes ago I was stressing the importance of making specific provision in a measure of this nature for investigation into a particular matter, and I suggested that this fact was clearly demonstrated in the scene enacted in  2'he Merchant of Venice,  which I endeavoured to describe. In this instance, also, we shall do well to express what we mean and intend " in the bond "..  I  should like to have the assurance of the Minister that it is the intention  of  this_ Government that the claims of a State on the ground of disability, due to the operation of the tariff, shall come within the investigatory powers of- the commission. Furthermore, I point out that no provision is made in this measure to enable the commission to deal with disabilities which might arise in respect of transport either by water or by air. I remind the committee that in 1912, when the principal act was passed, the present development of aerial transport was not foreseen. Then, again, if we are to believe the words of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  other difficulties may arise if the policy of his party is put into full operation in this country. 
If the Labour party is returned to power and gives effect to its policy in its entirety, as it will have every right to do, it is possible that we shall have a fleet of ships carrying goods in Australian waters at rates comparable with those now charged by the Government of New South Wales for the carriage of goods by rail to Broken Hill to the detriment of South Australia.  Senator James  McLachlan has clearly shown how South Australia is being seriously prejudiced  by  the " cut " rates on New South Wales railways. We should make provision for such a contingency. 
 I am glad to have the assurance of the Leader of the Senate, but I should feel easier in my mind if the bill expressly stated that all forms of transport were fully covered, so that there would he no doubt whatever that any disabilities which might be suffered by the smaller States would be the subject of investigation by the commission. 
It is as wide as the definition furnished to a London lecturer, on one occasion, when asked for an expansive term to describe a lecture which he was to deliver. One of his hearers suggested that he should style it " The universe and collateral subjects". Perhaps the definition clause may he so described ; but I should be better pleased if I had an assurance from the Leader of the Senate that the commission would investigate any disabilities which  a  State might suffer from any form of transport.  Senator Sir George  Pearce.  -  In the definition clause " commerce " includes "trade and traffic of all descriptions by land, water or air ". That is sufficient. 
.- The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  is quite wrong in saying that my amendment, if carried, would result in a duplication of the work of the Tariff Board. 
My sole purpose is to give the Inter-State Commission the duty and the right to make inquiries concerning all disabilities which may be suffered by a State as the result of federal legislation. All similar tribunals are vested with wide authority. The five economists appointed by the Bruce-Page Government some years ago to report on the economic effect of the tariff, pointed out that certain States, particularly Western Australia and Tasmania, suffered definite and severe disabilities under federation, whilst other States benefited from the incidence of Commonwealth tariff policy and other forms of legislation. Even with the partial measure of relief given at certain seasons of the year to Tasmania, that State has suffered definite injury from the operation of the Navigation Act. The same may be said of citizens of the north-west of Western Australia. I have received many complaints from constituents in that portion of my State that they are not permitted to travel by or receive goods from British-owned vessels which touch at the north-western ports of Western Australia. These complaints have been brought under the notice of the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan),  who has very courteously given them his attention. For the reasons given I am anxious that the Inter-State Commission shall have full power and a direct responsibility to investigate, on behalf of the smaller States, any unjust incidence of the tariff or other Commonwealth legislation. 
I am indebted to  Senator Arkins  for his kindly interest in the welfare of the smaller States, and I appreciate the help which he has given to us. But we may not always have in this chamber sympathetic representatives from the eastern States, and I wish to be quite sure that it will be the duty of the InterState Commission to investigate their disabilities, particularly these resultant from federal legislation. It is fitting that the bill should be introduced in the Senate, which is the States' House. I hope that the amendment which I have moved will be carried so that we may be quite sure that this independent tribunal will investigate all disabilities and do justice to the smaller States. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause verbally amended, and,  as  amended, agreed  to. 
Clause  19 - (1.) The Governor-General may cause any report made under paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of sub-section (1.), the last preceding section to be laid before each House of the Parliament and shall, before any proposed law relating to the subject of the report originates in the Parliament, cause the report to be laid before each House thereof. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs)  [12.8].-  I move- 
That the letters (c), (d) or (e) be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the letters (c), (d) or (e). 
These alterations are consequential on those made in clause  18. 
This is the clause to which I directed attention last night in my speech on the second reading. Notwithstanding the explanation given by the Minister, I am still of the opinion that it should be mandatory on the part of the GovernorGeneral to lay before Parliament any report made by the Inter-State Commission relating to investigations made by that body of disabilities suffered by the States, or applications by them for financial assistance. It should not be possible for a government to withhold from the Parliament reports or recommendations of the commission, thus depriving members of the opportunity to peruse them. 
It might be, but  it  is not an impossible contingency. I  am  aware that a government may consider that a report,  if  laid before Parliament, would disclose its probable budget proposals, which are confidential before presentation to Parliament. But I see a weakness in the clause in its present form, and I think the committee should accept my suggestion to substitute the word "shall" for  the word "may"  There will then  be  an obligation  on the  Government to lay all reports on the table of the Parliament. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs)  [12.15]. -  I think  the  honorable senator is visualizing an extreme set  of  circumstances. If some future government should withhold a report of the commission from Parliament or fail to introduce legislation to give effect to the commission's recommendations, the commission will still have an opportunity to make its views known to the legislature. Clauses  26  and  27  provide that the commission shall present an annual report containing; a summary of the work done, togetherwith its recommendations, and there is  an  obligation on the Minister to lay that report before each House of the Parliament within fifteen sitting days. Therefore, if by any chance a government did not lay before Parliament reports on specific investigations, we may be quite sure that, in its annual report, the commission would comment strongly on this fact, and members would, have ample opportunity to criticize the Government. 
 But the annual report of the commission might be presented much later in the year. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause  20  agreed to. 
Clause  21  (Undue preferences upon State railways.) 
 This clause relates to Inter-State traffic on railways. I move - 
That after the word " for", first occurring, the words " the Commonwealth or " bo inserted. 
If my amendment be accepted, I shall move a further amendment to make the clause read: - 
It shall not be lawful for the Commonwealth, or any State, or for any Commonwealth or State railway authority, to give or make upon any railway the property of the Commonwealth or of the State, in respect of Inter-State commerce, or so as to affect such commerce, any preference or discrimination which the commission adjudges undue and unreasonable, or unjust toany State. 
The object of the amendment is to bring the Commonwealth Railways under exactly the same control asthat which may be exercised over State railways. The Commonwealth railway between Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie is the only line connecting "Western Australia with the eastern States; therefore, unless this amendment is carried, Western  Australia  will have no protection whatever under Part IV.  14  of this bill. In his secondreading speech the Leader of  the  Senate  (Senator Pearce)  inferred that Commonwealth and State railways were similarly controlled . 
SenatorE.  B.  JOHNSTON.- In those other Parts no action can be taken except on a complaint either of a State or of the Governor-General. 
Those authorities may submit complaints against any State railway, but not against a Commonwealth railway. Clause  23  applies only to Part IV., which deals with State railways. It means that a State Railways Commissioner may complain against another State Railways Commissioner, but not against the very railway that is exercising unjust discrimination in respect of freights on goods to Western Australia - the Commonwealth railway. 
The right honorable gentleman is attempting to drag a red herring across the trail. We have no redress to-day under section  99. 
Under this bill the Inter-State Commission will be given direct power over State railways and the freights charged thereon. My amendment would give to it the same power over freights on Commonwealth railways. 
The bill provides that, should any freight rates on State railways be regarded as discriminatory or unfair, any State railway authority, or any borough, municipality, body politic, harbour board, marine board, or other State authority, or any association of traders or freighters, or chamber of commerce, manufactures, or agriculture may make complaint, whereupon the whole machinery of this legislation will be set in motion, and such discrimination may be declared to be illegal. No such power is given to those bodies in respect of Commonwealth railways. I. want that power to be vested in them in respect of Commonwealth railways; the Commonwealth railway freights are most unjust to Western Australian primary and secondary industries, and I hope, therefore, that the Government will accept my amendment. Unless it be incorporated in the bill, State railway authorities who prescribe discriminatory freights will be subject to control by the Inter-State Commission, whereas the Commonwealth railways authorities may not be challenged for similarly offending, unless the authority of a State government or of the Governor-General is invoked, if at all. From the point of view of a State which is responsible for making its railways pay, the carriage of onions and potatoes on a Commonwealth line from one side of Australia to the other at low freights is a matter of considerable importance. If the Inter-State Commission is to be empowered to deal with a complaint against a State railway, it should be able to act similarly when the complaint is against the Commonwealth railway authorities. 
.- I like to give the honorable senator credit for being solicitous for the welfare of his State when he persists in his statement that, unless they are manacled, the other States will do an injustice to  "Western Australia. It should not he necessary for me to disclaim any such intention on the part of the representatives of the other States. I should have thought that  every  honorable senator sits in this chamber as an Australian, not only to represent his own State, but also to have careful regard to the rights of every other State. "When the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  was speaking,  Senator Johnston  interjected somewhat heatedly that the right honorable gentleman was attempting to drag a red herring across the trail.  Senator Pearce  stated an elementary fact when he said that this legislation must be read in conjunction with other legislation already on the" statute-book, particularly the Constitution Act. I remind  Senator Johnston  that even the High Court cannot wipe out the Constitution, or any portion of it. Nor can this Parliament do so, other than by the methods set out in the Constitution itself. The honorable senator must have in his mind the possibility of something happening; otherwise he would not have moved an amendment designed to make provision for that happening. When I asked him what he feared would happen, he replied that, in the event of a State railway providing for discriminatory freights, a number of bodies could make complaint to the Interstate Commission with a view to the discontinuance of the objectionable practice, whereas, should the Commonwealth railways discriminate in respect of freights, there would be no means of cheeking it. For that reason, it is necessary to look elsewhere in the Constitution. Yesterday,  Senator Pearce  gave some reasons why the Commonwealth railways were not mentioned in the bill in exactly the same connexion as the State railways. There is a further reason why the honorable  senator's amendment is not necessary, namely, should the Commonwealth railways authorities discriminate against the railways of a State their action will come within the scope of section 99 of the Constitution, which provides that - 
The Commonwealth shall not, by any law or regulation of trade, commerce, or revenue, give preference to one State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof. 
Moreover, the Constitution empowers an individual to move under that section, as  Mr. James  did recently. 
Let us assume that goods are in transit across Australia by rail. I take it that the idea in  Senator Johnston's  mind is that when those goods reach the portion of the railway which is under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth, a differential ratu might apply to them. 
Under section 99 of the Constitution there can be no differentiation against goods coming from any part of Australia to Western Australia, and section 92 provides that there shall be no interference with the free flow of trade between the States. It is not intended that the Inter-State Commission shall take control of either the Commonwealth railways or the railways of the States. All that it will do in this connexion is to ensure that there shall be no discrimination or differentiation as between the States. The provisions of the Constitution meet anything that can be imagined by  Senator Johnston.  If agreed to, his amendment would serve no good purpose, and I ask the committee to reject it. 
It would not be possible, in any circumstances, for the Commonwealth railways to discriminate against any one State, seeing that there is only one railway line over which goods passing between Western Australia and the other States can be conveyed. I cannot imagine that on a railway on which goods from New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia are being carried, the Commonwealth railways authorities would prescribe differential rates according to the State of origin. 
That is not likely. 
I assure the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  that what is agitating  Senator Johnston's  mind is not what might happen at some distant date on the transAustralian railway, but what actually has already happened. There have been instances in which the Commonwealth freight rates in Western Australia have been much lower than those of the State. Complaints on that score have certainly been countered by the Commonwealth Commissioner of Railways declaring that the State rates were too high. To a degree, I agree with him. The point raised by  Senator Johnston  also exercised my mind during the secondreading debate, but the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  in his reply, convinced me that more than sufficient authority exists under this bill to cope with the very position with which  Senator Johnston  wishes to deal by his amendment. Confirmation of what he said was given to me by the qualified legal officers of the Crown Law Department. 1 am assured by them that, in the event of discriminatory railway freights being charged by the Commonwealth to the detriment of a State, that State may take appropriate action under clause 18 1  a,  and I have no doubt that in such an event a State government would have no hesitation in exercising its right to do so. I am also assured by legal authority that it is impossible to insert  Senator Johnston's  amendment in thebill, because it would mean that a. set of circumstances might arise which would demand the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth to take action against himself; such a situation would be ridiculous. Some years ago a similar Gilbertian situation arose in an outback part of Western Australia, when, assecretary to the local hospital board, a public servant applied to himself, as Registrar of Titles, for the grant of a piece of Crown land for the purpose of building a hospital. As Registrar of Titles he wrote to himself as secretary to the hospital board refusing the application on the ground that the land was the inalienable right of the Crown, and pointing out that if the hospital board wanted a site for a hospital it would have to purchase land in the normal way. Then, as the representative of the hospital board, the gentleman appealed to the Minister against the decision which he himself had reached in his official capacity as a State officer. And so the comedy went on.  Senator Johnston  could himself have ascertained what I have already learned from competent legal authorities, namely, that his amendment could not possibly be inserted in the bill. There is no need for the honorable senator to be anxious about the position in our State. Every Western Australian senator is equally anxious to see that nothing is done in respect of railway freights to prejudice the position of that State. I respectfully urge him to withdraw his amendment because, according to legal advice, there is no virtue in it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 22 agreed to. 
Clause 23- (1.) The Commission may commence an investigation of any alleged contravention of the provisions of this Part either of its own motion or on the complaint of any of the following authorities, that is to say - 
any such association of traders or freighters, or chamber of commerce, manufactures, or agriculture, as is in the opinion of the Commission, a proper body to make the complaint. 
Amendment (by  Senator E.  B. 
Johnston) agreed to - 
That after the word " freighters," paragraph (e), the words "or producers" be inserted. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 24 and 25 agreed to. 
Clause 26 verbally amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 27 agreed to. 
Clause 28 consequentially amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 29 to 34 agreed to. 
Clauses 35 and 36 consequentially amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

Clause 37 consequentially amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 38 to 44 agreed to. 
Clause 45 - 
The Governor-General may make regulations . . . 
for regulating the conduct of proceedings before the commission; 
for enabling the commission in cases to be specified in such regulations to exercise its powers by any one commissioner ; and 
for prescribing penalties (not exceeding in the case of a pecuniary penalty One hundred pounds and in the case of imprisonment a period of three months) for any breach of the regulations. 
[2.18].- I move - 
That paragraph (b) be left out, and that the word " and " be inserted in lieu thereof. 
This paragraph enables a commissioner to be empowered to exercise the powers of the commission. The provision is similar to that contained in the original act ; but, as the powers contained in the other two paragraphs are sufficiently wide, it is considered unnecessary to confer any additional regulation-making power. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 
In view of the fact that Article 28 of the International Convention was agreed to on the 27th July, 1929, will the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  explain why the introduction of this bill, which I intend to support, has been so long delayed ? 
[2.22]. -  in reply  - In moving the second reading of the measure, I explained that originally the Commonwealth was included in the British act; but, since the last Convention was drawn up, it has been decided that we should legislate in this matter ourselves. The Government waited until the amending British act, which was passed only last March, became operative before introducing this measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
I remind the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  of a serious happening which occurred at Bundaberg some years ago, due to carelessness in the preparation or the handling of vaccine. I trust that that incident will not be overlooked, and that every precaution will be taken to prevent a recurrence. I support the bill. 
.- Does the bill apply only to therapeutic substances imported into or exported from Australia? Does it protect the Australian public from therapeutic substances manufactured and sold in Australia? If it does not, I trust that the Commonwealth will request the State authorities to make the necessary provision to ensure that local substances below the proper standard are not used. I wish to be informed by the Minister whether that is so. 
 in reply  - I point out to  Senator Leckie  that the Commonwealth has no control over a substance which is manufactured in a State, and is not exported from that State, either to another State or to  a  foreign country. The Commonwealth can only take action through its powers of control over exports and imports, but, as I said in my second-reading speech, arrangements have been entered into by the Government with the States in order to effect control over that very limited class of substances which are not intended for export from the State in which they are manufactured. Any State legislation along these lines would be complementary to this legislation; thus the Commonwealth will have powers of control over both imports and exports, and, through the agency of the States, material manufactured in  a  State, but  not sent outside  that State, will also be controlled. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
-I have very little to say in respect of this document. It represents more or less a method of conveying information to honorable senators, and contains quite a deal of informative matter; for that reason, we are glad to have it. It  i3  desirable that these conferences be held, and that Australia be represented at them, for we should do everything in our power to support the League. Probably I shall have an opportunity on some future occasion to deal more fully with that phase of the matter. The speech of the Right Honorable S. M. Bruce at the 17th Assembly of the League of Nations on 29th September, 1936, which is published in Appendix D. of the report, is worthy of more than passing notice; it is an admirable address, and I recommend it particularly to the attention of the Government. In the course of his remarks,  Mr. Bruce  said - 
It is urged in some quarters that, unless the existing practice is abandoned in favour of the literal interpretation .of obligations, certain nations will take advantage of that freedom to refuse co-operation. That view I challenge, because I suggest it takes no account of the greatest potential' force in the world to-day, namely, the will to peace of the great mass of ordinary men and women in every country. In the minds of a large proportion of the populations of the world are vivid recollections of the horrors of the Great War. They remember how, in that ghastly cataclysm, the use of modern weapons a°dded to the  barbarity  of war. Nowadays, through the media of the press, the cinema and other methods of modern publicity, the world is learning bow the discoveries of science are 6till further adding to the horrors and terrors of war. As a result, there is, in most countries to-day, such a detestation of war as to create an almost incalculable force of public opinion which demands that the League shall not be allowed to fail, that temporary failure, though severe; shall be converted into an opportunity for the re-adaptation of League machinery so that it may become more effective in the preservation of world peace. 
The strength and pressure of that world public opinion, to which I have referred, will grow progressively in force and will, in the last resort, compel statesmen to act with justice and righteousness whenever the issue is that of the maintenance of world peace or the restraint of an aggressor. 
I impress upon the Government that it cannot afford to ignore that statement. Included among the allies of this Government, along with a section of the press,, are many who are victims of a war hysteria, which is merely a psychological reaction to all that is going on in the world to-day. In support of  Mr. Bruce's  remarks, I wish to impress upon the Government that we in this Parliament should recognize that the peoples, not the governments, of the world do not want war and do not want any of us to do any of those things which would ultimately lead to war. Other remarks made by  Mr. Bruce  in concluding his speech also are worthy of the most careful attention of the Government - 
It is almost impossible tr&gt; exaggerate the possibilities for the improvement of the world's standard of living and of comfort, of culture and even of leisure, that the achievement of mankind in the fields of science have made possible. 
That is the plea which I have made consistently on behalf of the Opposition in this chamber, and I wish that the Government would thoroughly digest that very pregnant statement by  Mr. Bruce.  He continued - 
It is our duty to ensure by co-operative action that these possibilities shall be opened up to the people of all nations. 
The nutrition campaign launched at last year's Assembly is a step in the right direction, but we should regard it as a spear point of a movement to substitute for the policy of restriction of production, the wiser one of increased consumption. 
Coming from  Mr. Bruce,  that statement is most noteworthy. It represents all that the Opposition has ever pleaded for in this connexion. We urge the Government to concentrate on the fact that it is essential to increase the consumption of our goods; the demand is there if only the consumers can be enabled to secure the wherewithal to purchase them. I wish, the members of the Cabinet, particularly, would take notice of the fact that  Mr. 
Bruce is not now in the hurly burly of political controversy, and, therefore, is perfectly free to express opinions which in the circumstances existing earlier in his political career, he would not have expressed on the floor of the Parliament. 1 shall preserve his speech, and probably resurrect it on numerous appropriate occasions in the future; it is indeed worthy of the most careful study. 
Debate (on motion of SenatorFoll) adjourned. 
This morning, during the discussion in committee of the Inter-State Commission Bill, I omitted to obtain from the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  information as to the intention of the Government with regard to the headquarters of the commission. Can the right honorable gentleman now say whether that body will be located in Canberra or, as is too frequently the case with commissions, will it function from some other centre? 
[2.56]. - The matter mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition (SenatorCollings) has not yet been considered. My strong personal view is that the headquarters ofthe commission should be in Canberra. 
SenatorCollings. - If it had not slipped my memory when the bill was being considered in committee, I should have moved for the insertion of a clause making it mandatory for the head-quarters of the commission to be established in Canberra. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No decision has been reached because, as I have already told honorable gentlemen, the matter has not been considered by the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 by leave  - I consider it my duty to bring before the Senate the treatment meted out to this chamber by certain newspapers of this country. Honorable senators will remember that last week I, in a personal explanation, reported to the Senate the misreport in the  Canberra Times  of a speech which I had delivered during the discussion on the Inter-State Commission Bill. As the correction I then made in the Senate has not appeared in that newspaper those who depend upon it for their news no doubt still believe that theversion it published was a fair record of the proceedings of this chamber on that occasion. That is but one instance. I have in my hand a cutting from the Melbourne  Argus  of Saturday last, which purports to give  a  report of the proceedings of the Senate when in committee on the Inter-State Commission Bill. It reads as follows :  - 
Several amendments to the Inter-State Commission Bill were moved by SenaterE. B. Johnston (Western Australia) in committee to-day, but in spite of strong support from Western Australian senators, they were defeated. The first statement was to provide for the inclusion in the matters into which the commission shall inquire, the effect of any tariff act or other law or regulation  of the  Commonwealth on primary industries, revenue, manufactures, or trade and commerce in any State or States. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  said that as the Tariff Board carried out part of these duties., there would be two bodies doing exactly similar work. 
The report then went on to state that I pointed out that the matters could he dealt with by the Tariff Board. Honorable senators who were present during the discussion on that measure know that the  Argus  report is an  entire misrepresentation  of what took place with regard to the amendments moved by  Senator J  ohnston. 
They know that not only did  Senator Johnston  advocate that these matters should be dealt with by the Inter-State Commission, but that all other senators from Western Australia advocated the same; and that I pointed out that the matters mentioned could be dealt with by the commission under the bill as it had been framed. I quoted legal opinion to that effect.  Senator Marwick  said that he also had consulted legal authority, and had been informed that the subjects referred to by  Senator Johnston  could be dealt with by the Interstate Commission under the bill. Other honorable senators from Western Australia therefore accepted my assurance as being a correct statement of the effect of the bill.  Senator Johnston  nevertheless pressed his amendment and called for a division, but the  Chairman  of Committees announced that there was only one " aye ", meaning that  Senator Johnston  was the only one calling for a division in favour of the amendment. Nevertheless, the  Argus  stated that the amendment was strongly supported by other senators from Western Australia. I admit that these are only two comparatively minor incidents in a series of absolute misrepresentations of the business of  the Senate. 
Honorable Senators.-Hear, hear! 
I suppose we have no right to complain if we are ignored by the newspapers, but we certainly have a right to complain if the proceedings of the Senate in the transaction of public business are misrepresented. I consider also that the press has an important duty to furnish to the people of this country a correct report of the proceedings of the Parliament, as well as of the views expressed by individual members of it. You,  Mr. President,  some time ago, and  Senator Abbott  last week, drew attention to the fact that it was not so very long ago that the press of the Mother Country had  to fight for the right to report parliamentary: proceedings. I have come to the conclusion that the time is rapidly approaching when the Parliament will have to fight for the right to let the people know what is being done on their behalf in the national legislature. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear! 
As things are, important bills which are passed sometimes get little or no attention from the press, but if some member of this or the other chamber, in a moment of heat, uses abusive or extravagant language, he can be sure of double headlines and a full report on the cable pages of the newspapers next day. This lack of all sense of proportion in the reporting of the proceedings of the Parliament has become a menace to parliamentary institutions. I say this, not because of the comparatively insignificant incident to which I have referred, but because of the general tendency of the press in recent years either to ignore altogether the proceedings of Parliament or so to report them that no elector can possibly be aware of what is being done. The extraordinary amount of space devoted to the reporting of sporting news disposes entirely of the excuse- that there is lack of space for the reporting of parliamentary 'proceedings, and to suggest that the doings of the national legislature have no news value is to imply that the people of this country take no, interest .whatever in the government of it. I refuse to believe that, and I repeat that; in my view, the time is rapidly, approaching when, if the press does not' do its duty to our parliamentary institutions, the Parliament will have to do its* duty to the people by taking steps to ensure that they may know accurately the business that is .transacted in this building., . 
The '  'PRESIDENT.  - I should like to add a few words to the observations of the Leader of the' Senate  (Senator Pearce)  upon this very important matter. In the first plaGe I refuse to believe that there is a single person in the public life of this country who does not wish to be judged by his words and his acts if they are fairly, presented to the people. It is, however, quite wrong to ask the people to judge a man by statements which were never made or actions of which he has never been guilty, and I agree with the Leader of the Senate that the time has arrived to call public- attention to those news agencies which are responsible for such unfair presentation of the doings of this Parliament. The Leader of the Senate has rightly said that the newspapers of this country are the inheritors of a freedom which was won only after strenuous endeavours in the Mother Country for the right to report the proceedings of Parliament. We are entitled to* expect that that right will be respected; the newspapers should not give to the people an unfair or distorted version of proceedings which it is their bounden duty to record faithfully. I have fought on the floor of this chamber for many years to secure for the Senate a fair share of publicity, comparable, at least, with the publicity given to other news which might be adjudged of interest to the people of this country. I know that I have paid for my temerity, for although I have spoken on many subjects, for many years my name did not appear in the newspapers and its readers had no means of knowing what I had to say. However, I was quite prepared to suffer, because I knew that I had done my duty in calling attention to the remissness of the newspapers in their wilful treatment of the proceedings of this chamber. 1 have in mind another example of the paltry methods adopted at times by a section of the press, including some of the socalled respectable newspapers, in their desire to present this Parliament and its members in an unfair light. I refer to the occasion last year when  Dr. Earle  Page, who was then Acting Prime Minister, convened the meeting of the Cabinet in Western Australia. Immediately there appeared in the Western Australian newspapers a report from Canberra to the effect that Canberra opinion was to the effect that the policy of the Government with reference to a certain matter did not meet with approval in Canberra.  .Dr. Earle  Page challenged this statement, and told the people in Western Australia that at the moment the only people in Canberra were public servants who, as a rule,, were rather loath to express an opinion upon any matter of government policy; therefore the right honorable gentleman suggested that the so-called expression of opinion from Canberra must have been inspired by somebody who disapproved of the Government's attitude and wished to convey the impression that there was substantial public opinion in the Federal Capital Territory against it. That incident may be regarded as a good illustration of how public opinion sometimes is manufactured, for the express purpose of placing the Government of the day in bad relation to the electors. In that case there was a deliberate attempt to manufacture news without any substantial material whatever. 
Honorable Senators . - Hear, hear! 
I have another example of the attitude of the newspapers toward public men. An incident that occurred in this Parliament a year or two ago has a bearing upon the insistence of newspapers that they have a cultural influence on the community. Honorable senators will perhaps remember that on one occasion I was asked a question about the wearing of " slacks " by a young woman visitor, who with others was escorted on a tour of inspection of Parliament House. I said from this Chair what I thought as to the propriety of such apparel in this building. Honorable senators will no doubt be surprised to know that as I left the chamber and was on my way to my apartments I was confronted by a barricade of pressmen, including representatives of the so-called respectable newspapers, whose one desire was to know if I had anything further to say on the subject of " slacks " worn by young women. My reply was that I had said what I thought about the matter from the Chair, and had nothing to add. I have been a member of this Parliament for over 30 years and I have never before or since been met with such an array of pressmen on any subject of real importance to the Commonwealth. I can give honorable senators another instance. Some little time ago in my lonely homestead in Western Australia I read in the daily newspaper what a certain titled gentleman from another country had said about the Federal Parliament, after an all too brief visit to Can berra. This visitor spoke of the lavish appointments of Parliament House,- and went on to say that he was informed that a good deal of card-playing- was indulged in by members. I took it upon myself immediately to correct that impression. As I had been for so long a member of this Parliament I .considered that I was in a much better position to express an opinion on the subject, than was a casual globe-trotting visitor from overseas, whose opinions, nevertheless, had been published under . prominent headings in the newspapers. I told the people that so far from the accommodation being lavish, even in the House of Parliament here some Ministers were obliged to work with their secretaries in a small room, and an interview between a member and a constituent had to be conducted whilst walking about the corridors, because no strangers' room has been provided in this building for such purposes. As for the allegation of card-playing, I stated that I had never seen cards being played in Parliament House - not that I object to card-playing;.,. ..on the contrary, I feel that public men have as much right to some . form of relaxation as has any other citizen. The report appeared in the press of Western Australia, but not a single word of it was printed in the respectable press i0 the eastern States. 
Newspapers in Western Australia also published a report charging members of this Parliament with, snobbishness, and associating my name with it. I wrote a letter to the press pointing out that there was not even a suspicion of truth in the report, but my letter was not .given the prominence that was- given to the charge. Again, no reference to the subject appeared in the press of the eastern States. I leave the matter there, with this remark: that if the public press wishes to educate the people of this country to show respect for parliamentary institutions, instead of merely exciting its readers, it is going the wrong way about its task. Should it continue to disparage parliaments and public men as it is doing and has done, the people will get the parliaments and the public men that they deserve. The result will probably not satisfy the newspapers; but it will be the direct fruit of their systematic attacks on parliaments and parliamentarians. Unlike men in public life, whose actions come up for review by the electors every few years, those in charge of the press of the country may sit in cosy chairs in their comfortable homes and offices free from the public gaze and criticism, but I warn them that if they do not discharge their duty to the people, as public men are required to do, and live up to their claim that they are seeking to educate and edify the people in showing respect for public institutions, including Parliament, they will get the low-grade parliaments which their conduct richly deserves. 
 by leave  - No one could have supported the principle contained in my amendment to theInter-State Commission Bill more heartily than did some senators from Western Australia last week. In this connexion, I refer particularly to your own speech,  Mr. President,  which showed that you stood wholeheartedly behind those amendments. The matter which has been referred to this afternoon is, after all, only like a storm in a tea cup. So far as I can see, nothing has been done to warrant the threats which have been made against the press this afternoon. 
I lay on the table reports and recommendations of the Tariff Board on the following subjects :  - 

 - by leave - In my remarks last week with reference to the press I endeavoured to point out that freedom of the press was a privilege which had been won only after great struggles on the part of our ancestors in connexion with the British parliamentary system. It is one of the underlying principles of democracy, the foundations of which were laid by those who preceded us in the Mother of Parliaments. I endeavoured to show that these privileges are among the most valuable things connected with our British political system. Part and parcel of our parliamentary system is the right to publish fair reports of the proceedings of Parliament. That right was not gained without sacrifice and struggle. I wanted to impress on the Senate and on the press and the people of this country that that right is identical with the right of members to free speech, and that it was something which in these days of dictatorships we should cherish and preserve at all costs. Parliament has a right to expect the fullest co-operation of the press in asserting its right of free speech. The principle is far too valuable to be cast aside lightly. 
Can you, sir, furnish the Senate with particulars of the number of members of this Parliament who were invited to attend the coronation ceremony of Their Majesties this year as the guests of the Empire Parliamentary 
Association, and can you say who bore the expense of the delegation? 
The names of the members of the delegation will be supplied to the honorable senator. The United Kingdom branch of the Empire Parliamentary Association bore the expenses of the delegation. 
Is the Leader of the Senate aware that the inevitable has happened, and that a gentleman by the name of Aarons has nominated for preselection by the United Australia party as a candidate for the Senate election in New South Wales? In view of his nomination, can the right honorable gentleman say what the Government intends to do with regard to the proposed alteration of the Senate ballot paper ? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a statement made by  Sir ArchdaleParkhill  in Perth on the 22nd March last, and reported in the  West Australian  of the 23rd March, as follows: - "I want to point out how important Western Australia is in the defence of the Commonwealth . . . The coastal defence work going on here to-day is as great as that in any other part of the Commonwealth. The two towns that will be most adequately provided for by defence preparation, and where thousands of pounds are being spent, are Fremantle and Sydney. The expenditure on each is at present very much the same."? 
In view of this statement is it proposed to resume the construction of the Henderson Naval Base at Fremantle without delay, in order to place Fremantle defences in a relative position to those at Sydney? 
If not, why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Acting Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Yes. 
No. 
No provision has been made for this project, and the naval advisers to the Government do not recommend that this workbe resumed. The naval situation, since the submission of the Henderson report has been affected by the completion of the Singapore Naval Base. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What was the percentage of attendance at the six-days' camps of continuous training during the past military year, to establishment of (a) infantry (Militia); (b) artillery (Militia) ? 
Percentage of attendance to present establishment at six-days' camps of continuous training for 1936-37: - 
Infantry (Militia) - 71.1 per cent. 
Artillery (Militia) - 73.7 per cent. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of his department to extend to country post offices the benefits of the increased basic wage? 
The payments to persons in charge of nonofficial offices will not be affected. A figure higher than the new basic wage was used when framing the scale on which payment to these persons is based. 
 It is not my intention to speak at length on the report of the Australian delegation to the 17th Assembly of the League of Nations, because, although the report, like that of earlier delegations, is interesting, I regard the League as playing a comparatively unimportant part in international affairs to-day. I regret that I am somewhat sceptical concerning the work of the League at Geneva, but in view of the difficulties confronting the nations of the world to-day, one wonders whether the maintenance of such a huge and expensive organization is justified. In reply to criticisms in this Parliament and elsewhere concerning its work, we have been told that an effort should be made to improve the organization and make it, a more effective body than it  is  to-day. During the 20 years in which the League has been  in  existence, it has been building up an extensive organization and passing pious resolutions to which effect has seldom been given. When the real test came to prove whether it could  be  an effective instrument in settling international disputes it failed most miserably. I was criticized some  time  ago when I said that the attack  by  Italy  upon  Abyssinia sounded the death knell  of  the League  of  Nations, but I believe that now, particularly  as  a result of that conquest, it  is  realized to  be  impotent  as an  organization for -the prevention  of  international disputes. Smaller nations which became members  of  the League, many at the behest  of  larger nations, had a rude awakening when they saw what happened  in  Abyssinia. In spite  of  the prophecies  as  to what would happen  if  Italy  embarked  upon a war  of  aggression  in  Abyssinia, the more powerful nations stood calmly  by  and watched a defenceless people overwhelmed. In these circumstances there  is  little likelihood  of  the League gaining prestige  or  additional support, particularly from nations seeking national security. Although this organization has been  in  existence for twenty years the nations  of  the world are arming to a greater extent than at any period  in  history. The amount  of  money set aside  by  Great Britain for general rearmament purposes, that being expended  by. Germany,  and, more recently, the announcement  of  the Japanese Government that it proposes to expend huge sums  on  defence, make  us  realize that the League  is  incapable  of  performing  the  functions for which it was established. 
We have little definite proof  of  that. It failed to prevent the Japanese from entering Manchukuo, or the conflict between Bolivia and Paraguay. But probably its worst failure  was in  respect  of  Abyssinia, which was brought into the League  by  one  of  the more powerful nations ; later it was overwhelmed  by  Italy, a fellow member  of  the League, and nothing was done  by  ether nations to assist it. Sanctions were applied to Italy, but only  in  respect  of  unimportant commodities, and when it was proposed to apply sanctions to fuel oil, a restriction on the supplies of which would have been a salutary influence, the League eventually decided that no action be taken. .Australia contributes annually a large sum towards the maintenance of this organization. 
 Does the honorable senator think that we should withdraw from the League. 
[3.45]. - I should not like the remarks of  Senator Foll  to pass without something being said concerning the other' side of the picture he has presented in respect of the League of Nations. In regard to the League as in respect of any other human ideal there are two extremes to be avoided. After all, the League is a human institution, and, in the performance of its functions, it has shown certain human weaknesses. However, the statement that it has been a wholesale failure is far too sweeping, as is also the claim that it should be able to abolish war within the span of one generation, for, I remind honorable senators, the League has been in existence for only a generation. When one realizes that for thousands of years international disputes have been settled by war, it is rather optimistic to claim that the League should, within the short period for which it has been in existence, have been able to abolish war. That happy state of affairs, I suggest, cannot be justly expected until the nations generally show their willingness to settle their disputes in another and more humanitarian way. 
Whilst the League has some faults, however - and, I admit, its failure in respect of the Abyssinian dispute was very serious - it has many successes to its credit. I remind  Senator Foll  that since the Abyssinian trouble a dispute has occurred between France and Turkey, over two provinces in Syria and that trouble, but for the existence of the League, would have been settled by recourse to war. Feeling ran very high . in the two countries, and Turkey actually mobilized troops. But it was through the League, and under its direct supervision, that this dispute was settled to the mutual satisfaction of  the  disputants. Again honorable senators will also recall the dangerous situation which arose out of the claims made by Turkey in respect of the fortification of the Dardanelles, and will remember that it was at the Montreux Conference, held under the influence of the League, that this trouble was settled to the satisfaction of all concerned without Turkey rattling the sabre, as several countries are prone to do to-day. These two successes of the League since its failure in respect of Abyssinia provide undeniable evidence of its practical value. 
If the League succeeded in preventing only one war it would more than justify itself. However, apart from its mediation in international disputes, the League functions in many other spheres, as honorable senators will recognize when they read many of the reports issued under its imprimatur. In this respect, I mention the international traffic in drugs which, if unchecked, is a menace to the health and well-being of all nations. At the time the League took up its investigations, this evil was assuming alarming proportions. Furthermore, those who" have studied the wonderful work of the 
League in relation to the protection and rehabilitation of political and other refugees will readily admit its worth and the necessity for its existence. Upwards of 3,000,000 refugees who, but for the intervention of the League, would have starved to death, have been placed in a position in which they were enabled to earn a livelihood under happy conditions. People for whom no nation would provide a home were provided for by the League. Is it not worth while to encourage an international organization capable of doing such wonderful work? Honorable senators who have studied the history of Austria since the war, and realize that that country was tottering on the verge of absolute ruin and degradation, with hundreds of thousands of its children starving, do not need to  be reminded  that it was the League which rescued Austria from disaster. Through international action the League set Austria again on its feet, and rescued hundreds of thousands of its unfortunate people from a terrible fate. 
As another example of the League's work, I mention its efforts in suppression of the international traffic in women, a traffic which, at its worst, was akin to the slave traffic of old. But for the League this evil would have been permitted to develop unchecked. Once again, I admit that the League's failure in respect of the Abyssinian dispute was very serious, but to claim that, because of that failure it is not worth having, is to carry condemnnation to an unreasonable extent. I certainly cannot accept such a judgment. Undoubtedly there is still a need in this troubled world for the League of Nations. If we are to have any hope at all that this world will ever become sane and that the nations will agree to banish war entirely, we can base it only on international action initiated by a body like the League of Nations. During these dark days in the international sphere, rendered gloomier still by the terrible happenings in Spain, we should retain this one vestige of hope for international action; the League is like a lamp that provides the only glimmering light on the. path to the permanent peace of the world. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.. 
Motion agreed to. 
I propose to take this opportunity to say a few words in respect of the excellent work being done generallyby the League of Nations. Members of the Opposition in this chamber maintain that any money which Australia has spent in connexion with the League has been well spent, and we deplore the opposition of certain honorable senators to the League. In this enlightened day it is somewhat distressing to hear any honorable senator speaking as  Senator Foll  has done. Because the influence of the League has been exaggerated, thousands of people believe that, meeting as frequently as it does, it should be able to stop war. War cannot be stopped so long as there exist certain underlying reasons which cause one nation to attack another, or a group of nations to attack another group. Recent events have demonstrated very clearly the powerful influences which cause international trouble. In Spain, for instance, we have an instance of how for economic reasons one nation will fight another. In fact, I suggest that the principal causes of war are economic in character. Just as within a country itself there is a continual struggle economically between one class and another, so in the international sphere there is a constant struggle (between the imperialistic nations of the world. Only the other day Herr Hitler pointed out that one reason why Germany is supporting General Franco in the present Spanish trouble is that it may secure a greater measure of control over the iron ore, and other mineral resources in Spain. He made a definite statement to that effect. Members of this Opposition have repeatedly pointed to the strong influences existing in the world to-day which offset the efforts of earnest people who are anxious for the establishment of permanent peace and, until a re-orientation, or a re-alignment, of these forces is effected, war will be inevitable. 
That fact, however, does not prevent lovers of peace throughout the world from continuing their endeavours by whatever means may be at their disposal, through the League of Nations or otherwise, to banish war. If war could be avoided for an appreciable period, possibly basic economic changes could be effected and war ultimately eliminated. 
The  PRESIDENT  (Senator the Hon.  P. J. Lynch). - I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the subject under discussion. 
Members of the Opposition contend that, having regard to the work done by the League of Nations, only one phase of which is revealed in the operations of the International Labour Office, its supporters are entitled to overlook the disabilities under which it labours. It would be a sorry day for Australia, and many other nations, if the ideas put forward by  Senator Foll  this afternoon were more widely accepted, because the downfall of the League would mean the cessation of its good work through such bodies as the International Labour Office. Labour men throughout the world have sufficient good sense to continue their international organization and international conferences because it is the workers who when war occurs suffer the most; they supply the bulk of the fighting armies and, accordingly, their women and children bear the brunt.  Senator Foll  dealt with the League of Nations, but I am dealing with the international Labour organization.  Senator Foll  strongly supports the presence at Empire conferences of such men as the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey),  and the High Commissioner,  Mr. Bruce. 
I am not saying one word against the character of those honorable gentlemen, but if it is right to hold Empire conferences, it is equally right to hold international conferences which deal with issues which are larger even than those dealt with at conferences within the British Empire. 
But people should not only adhere to ideals but should also take cognizance of realty, lien should not jump to the conclusion that simply because the League of Nations has failed in one direction, it is completely a failure. The threatened disintegration of the League as the result of the intense economic antagonism that exists to-day among nations of the world should be prevented. It is necessary that we support the League of Nations because, to some extent at least, its existence is warding off an immediate clash of the powers. Any influence that for even the space of a few years can ward off a great international upheaval deserves support; it assists the forces that are working through the international Labour organization to institute economic societies which will fight not for supremacy but for the common welfare. The work of the International Labour Office in this direction is commendable. It has directed attention to the disabilities of workers who toil for long hours.  Sir Frederick  Stewart, as a representative of the Commonwealth Government at the International Labour Conference at Geneva supported a reduction of the hours of labour, and many nations have decided to effect this reform. There is no doubt that the thinkers of the world are rapidly reaching the belief that a reduction of the hours of labour is one of the greatest reforms that it is possible to place on the statute-book. It takes precedence over other ameliorative measures such as national insurance; it is far better that we should spread work and wages over the mass than that we should divide the people and say that one section shall be out of work for so many months of the year and shall be recompensed with the dole. 
It is admitted that the seasonal worker is a problem, but not all of those who are on the dole for part of the year are seasonal workers. 
The whole matter is linked up with the affairs pf the International  Labour  Organization. That body has fully justified its existence, and we on this side hope that it will continue with the good work that it has done in the past. 
In my opinion the best contribution that the nations of the world can make towards world peace is  the  lowering of the barriers which prevent a free flow of international trade, and which in the final analysis, will be found to be the cause of the hostility which exists between the nations. Economic nationalism is the evil which must be destroyed. If nations could reach a better understanding in matters of trade and commerce and enable a freer flow of goods between countries, they would go a long way towards removing 'the causes of hostility. 
[4.9]. -  in reply  - During his speech on the reports of the Australian delegation to the Maritime Sessions  of  the International Labour Conference,  Senator Collings  raised some interesting points. He referred to the draft convention concerning the liability of shipowners in case of sickness, injury, and death of seamen, and he inquired as to whether a seaman with no person dependent upon him would receive wages during sickness. Article 5 provides for the payment of full wages as long as the sick or injured person remains on board; and if such person has dependants,  wages are  to be paid in whole or in part from the time when he is landed until he has been cured or the sickness or incapacity has been declared of a permanent character. I invite the attention of the honorable senator to Article 4 under which the shipowner is liable to defray the expenses of medical care and maintenance until the sick or injured person has been cured, or until the sickness or incapacity has been declared of a permanent character, with a proviso that national  law or  regulations may limit the liability of the shipowner in this connexion to a period of not less than sixteen weeks. 
It must be borne in mind that the convention provides only for minimum requirements, and provision is made in 
Article 12 that nothing in the convention shall affect any law, award, custom or agreement between ship-owners and seamen which ensures more favorable conditions than those provided for by the convention. Generally speaking, the provisions of the Navigation Act are in advance of those laid down in the convention. Moreover, the Commonwealth Seamen's Compensation Act makes provision for compensation in the case of long illness, total or partial incapacity, or death. 
In regard to the recommendation concerning the promotion of seamen's welfare in ports, this is a matter which, of course, comes mainly within the jurisdiction of the States, and this recommendation has referred to the States for consideration and advice as to the extent to which its provisions are covered by existing legislation, and as to any action contemplated to give full effect to such provisions. The Commonwealth Government proposes to follow this matter up closely with the States with a view to obtaining their co-operation in the application of the principles of this recommendation which are regarded by the Government as very desirable in the general interests of seamen. 
In regard to the necessity foi1 reference to the State governments, nearly all the conventions and recommendations adopted by the conference concern the States to a greater or less degree, and it is necessary to obtain the co-operation of the States for the complete implementation of the proVisions of such instruments. The honorable senator will remember that the question of the ratification of these conventions was fully discussed at conferences between Commonwealth and State Ministers in 1927, 1929 and 1936. On the second occasion, the Commonwealth Government intimated that it would be prepared to ratify any conventions to the provisions of which the States had given effect under their legislation. This undertaking was repeated last year when the unratified conventions were classified as (a) conventions which appear to be fully or substantially covered by existing State legislation or practice, of which there are ten;  (b)  conventions which require only minor amendments, of which there are eleven; and (c) the remainder which involve more important changes. 
The conference came to the conclusion that the delay which had occurred ' in connexion with the ratification had been due to a large extent to the fact that consideration by the States of the subject matter of the conventions was not a function of any one department or officer, and the conference recommended that States should be invited to rectify this. With regard to the conventions which had already been submitted to the States, the conference recommended that the States should be invited to indicate at once their acquiescence or otherwise in any convention the subject matter of which was substantially covered by existing law, and, so far as concerns the other conventions, to advise the Commonwealth Government as early as possible whether or not they were willing that the Commonwealth should ratify. Replies have so far been received from Victoria, Western Australia and Tasmania, and if the replies received from the other States are equally satisfactory, the Commonwealth should be able to. proceed with ratification of at least ten or twelve of such conventions. 
As regards the appointment of two Government delegates, this, and the appointment of advisers to the non-Government delegates, have been considered on several occasions. The reason for not making such appointments has been mainly the very considerable additional expense involved. The honorable senator's suggestion in this connexion, however, will be borne in mind on the next occasion. 
All the conventions and recommendations adopted at the maritime sessions of the conference under notice have been referred to the State governments for consideration and advice as to any action contemplated thereon. They are also at the present time under consideration by the Commonwealth authorities concerned, with a view to ascertaining what amendments are necessary to implement them. 
When tabling these reports, I set out the position as to the extent to which the provisions of these conventions were already covered by existing legislation and practice, and I can assure the honorable senator that the matter of securing the co-operation of the States where necessary with a view to the ratification of these conventions will he vigorously pursued. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Sitting suspended from4.17 p.m. to 8 p.m. 

I take this opportunity to protest, as forcibly as I am able, against the unseemly procedure which members of this chamber are being asked to accept in dealing with this measure. A copy of the bill was placed in my hands exactly one minute ago and to suggest that I have any possible opportunity to offer either intelligent, or effective, criticism of it is to suggest something bordering on the miraculous. In these circumstances, I do not intend to try. There is much that might be said, and ought to be said, in dealing with a bill of this kind, but I, for one, am not going to assist the Government out of the difficulty into which it has got itself by its procedure in this chamber and in the House of Representatives. To keep honorable senators cooling their heels for six months of the year and then bring us here on the 15th June, expecting us to get through the session by to-morrow night - I understand that is the intention of the Government - is entirely wrong. Something was said in this chamber this afternoon regarding the necessity for preserving public respect for parliamentary institutions in this country, and I agree entirely with every word uttered on that subject, but nothing happening in connexion with public life in Australia to-day is more calculated to bring those institutions into utter disrespect than is process are of the nature which is repeatedly adopted by this Government. Within the time that is being made available to it, this Parliament cannot deal competently with the legislation submitted to it. 
My two colleagues and I work very hard when the Senate is in recess, but that is not the point; it is, that we cannot expect people to respect our parliamentary institutions when we are asked to deal with this bill within so limited a time. This measure contains matters of sufficient importance to call for weeks of the most careful deliberation on the part of honorable senators. If the Opposition chose to adopt certain tactics which it has a right to do, it would be accused of stonewalling and of being a party to a system of legislation by exhaustion. That criticism has been levelled at us time and again, but, on this occasion, we propose to throw full responsibility for the ridiculous situation which has arisen entirely upon the Government. 
During the debate on the AddressinReply last week, my colleague  Senator Brown  made some remarks concerning destitution and distress in this country and when he dared to suggest that the living conditions of all the people in Sydney were not what  Senator Dein  would have us believe, that honorable senator stated that if my colleague would cite a single instance of a person being on the verge of starvation, that person could, within a few hours, obtain government sustenance, or, if he were receiving insufficient sustenance, his allowance would be substantially increased.  Senator Dein  wished honorable senators to infer, of course, that members of the Opposition make a practice of exaggerating the destitution prevailing in so many quarters in this country. The honorable senator, furthermore, undertook to attend personally to such a case. I now wish to ask him to redeem that promise. 
In the cases which I propose to mention I am prepared to furnish privately the names and addresses of the persons concerned to the honorable senator. Both cases are perfectly genuine. Without reservation, I believe that  Senator Dein  has a kindly heart, and I believe that he meant all he said. I shall now give him an opportunity to prove that I am not mistaken in my opinion of him. On a recent occasion, during a debate in this chamber, the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  declared that I was always harping either on the morgue or the cemetery, the suggestion being that I had always a tale of catastrophe, which .could not be accepted at its face value. The first case which I bring particularly to the notice of  Senator Dein  is that of a young man, an earnest student, who for the last twelve months has endeavoured, in vain, to secure employment in order to obtain sufficient income to provide himself with the bare necessaries of life, and, at the same time, allow him freedom to attend at night science lectures at the Technical College. He has appealed to a considerable number of prospective employers, without success. Here is an excellent opportunity for  Senator Dein  to make good his word, and I ask for his cooperation in that matter. But for the fact that a certain individual, who was under no obligation to the young man, came to his rescue, he would be actually starving to-day. He is a brilliant young fellow, and I am sure, if he were given a chance, he would become a considerable asset to this country. If he is not actually starving, he is on the verge of starvation. 
This man would be actually starving but for the fact that some one befriended him by agreeing to make a certain financial contribution to him weekly. 
The second case which I have in mind is that of a widow in New South Wales who, within the last three weeks, approached a member of the House of Representatives and asked him to try to do something to extricate her from her unfortunate difficulties, which were due to the' fact that Bebarfalds Limited, furniture merchants of Sydney, was pressing her for overdue payments on her furniture: She was unable to keep up those payments, because her husband had died some  time previously, and the undertaker was pressing her because she was falling behind in her payments in respect of her husband's time-payment funeral. Notwithstanding the existence of cases of this kind,  Senator Dein  and other honorable senators tell members of -the Opposition that we are only shedding crocodile tears, and have very little grounds for complaint when we describe the conditions of the downtrodden and oppressed sections of the community. 
Did the Standing Orders permit it, I should propose requests in relation to this measure but, of course, the Senate's powers in relation to a money bill are limited. Originally I intended to say quite a good deal on the subject of malnutrition, .but I shall not do so, because I wish to register my emphatic protest against the insane procedure adopted by the Government every year of keeping Parliament in recess for months on end, and then asking members to deal within too limited a space of time with the important legislation placed before it. I am not going to attempt to do my job in those circumstances, and I propose to tell the electors of Queensland of this ridiculous position. This morning members of the House of Representatives went home exhausted after an all-night sitting. It is my intention to throw the responsibility for this insane procedure entirely on the Government. Only a year or two ago, we had the spectacle of  Hansard  reporters dropping on the job, fainting, and unable to carry on any longer. Do such occurences indicate an intelligent method of getting legislation through this or any other chamber ? The Government will not get anything out of me by the process of exhaustion. Later, when the Estimates come before us - if they ever do come, and the Government does not decide to do without them - I shall say what I want to say. If Government members want an. "all-nighter", let them go ahead and have it, as Government supporters did in the House of Representatives last night, when they made provocative speeches, and expected others to sit in silence. So far as I and my colleagues are concerned, nothing that honorable .senators opposite may say will make us talk. The responsibility is on the Government. By the actions of the Government the taxpayers are being defrauded ; they pay us to do our job here,  not anywhere else, and we are denied the opportunity to do it properly. 
No. I have something which I could say about  Senator Hardy  which would make him a spectacle for derision among the people, but I do not intend to say it at present. I can cite some startling cases of malnutrition, and some startling remarks on the subject by Ministers of the Crown, ministers of religion, and responsible citizens; but I do not, at this stage, intend to discuss the matter beyond saying that my investigations have led me to the belief that malnutrition does not always originate in Surry Hills, Woolloomooloo, Fitzroy, or Richmond ; a good deal of it originates in Toorak and Potts Point. That, however, will be the subject for a speech later on, and with that remark I leave the subject for honorable senators to think over. The job which lies before us is not only to discover meansto provide every one with the necessaries of life and conditions of health and decency, but also some means whereby we can take away from other people the excess of the good things of life that makes them also come into the category of those who are not properly nourished. So far as this bill is concerned, the Government may get out of the hole in which it is in its own way, and as it thinks best. 
 I shall follow the example of brevity set by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  What I wish to bring before the Senate is a serious anomaly in the administration of the service pensions. As honorable members are aware, a service pension is granted to returned soldiers for any one of three reasons. First, a soldier who has served in a theatre of war, and is permanently unemployable, becomes eligible for the pension; secondly, a soldier who has served in a theatre of war and is 60 years of age or over, is eligible; and, thirdly, the pension is paid to all returned soldiers who are suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. The anomaly on which I propose to address the Senate relates to those in the first category. When the service pensions legislation originally came before the Senate, there was con siderable debate as to the definition of " permanently unemployable ", and it was finally defined that, if a returned soldier who served in a theatre of war could prove that he was permanently unemployable, he would be granted a service pension. During the last session of Parliament the Government introduced an. amendment to the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act, which made the service pension even more generous, by providing that a returned soldier, if permanently unemployable, could become eligible for a service pension in spite of the fact that he was already drawing an invalid pension, provided he surrendered his invalid pension. Since that amendment was made, a number of men who served in a theatre of war, and who draw the invalid pension, have applied to the Repatriation Department for a service pension on the ground that they are permanently unemployable ; their applications have been refused. Honorable senators are aware that the pensions authorities must be satisfied that an applicant for an invalid pension is permanently and totally incapacitated before the pension is granted ; but the Repatriation Department says that the granting of an invalid pension by the Pensions Department is not prima facie evidence of total and permanent incapacity; it insists upon making its own tests. To my knowledge, about 50 returned men have been refused the service pension on the ground that they are not permanently unemployable, despite the fact that the Pensions Department has granted them an invalid pension. That is a definite anomaly, and it is surely not the intention of the Government to perpetuate it by allowing two sets of Commonwealth pension authorities to make different decisions on the same matter. If a man who served in a theatre of war has been granted an invalid pension, equity demands that the Repatriation Department shall accept that fact as prima facie evidence of his entitlement. The hardship that is existing under this anomaly could be easily removed by a direction from the Government to the effect that the granting by the Pensions Department of an invalid pension on the ground of permanent and total incapacity shall be sufficient proof for the Repatriation Department. Justice demands that the 
Government shall take prompt steps to have this anomaly removed. 
I welcome this opportunity to refer to the debate which took place in the Senate this afternoon in relation to the League of Nations. I was particularly interested in listening to the remarks of  Senator Foll  and some other honorable senators. When I speak of defence, I speak of the British Empire, or as it is called to-day, the British Commonwealth of Nations, and not only of Australia, because we are all bound together in this matter. The Empire is a wheel, of which the Old Country is the hub, and the dominions are the spokes. If the hub is smashed, the outlook for the spokes is bad; at the same time, the spokes have to do their part of the job, as a part of the wheel. At times there is a good deal of confused thought about defence, because we have to-day, not only in the dominions, but also- in Great Britain, hosts of well-meaning and intelligent people who hold some very strong views of defence, which, in my opinion, are quite erroneous. Some say that we should not be involved in war if we do not make it ourselves. That is to say, that if we do not make trouble, trouble should not come to us. Let us first consider our case : what motive could any nation have for attacking us if we were manifestly unaggressive, and ' even indifferent to the elementary national duty of self-defence? The answer to that is that we own a great many things which make us a subject of the envy of less fortunate countries. Yet there are in this Commonwealth men of heart and brain who contend that either we should have no defence, at all, or that  we  should limit our need for defence by relying on our fellow members of the League of Nations. Some friends we must have on whom we can rely. But friends are not to be had for nothing, and, if they promise support to us,- we must promise support to them. Pooled security can never be a reality unless every partner to the British Empire contributes his fair and just share, according to his means, to the general defence. That is the only fair and logical conclusion that we can reach. Peace and security cannot be bought; they must be deserved and earned, and a nation which refuses to face that fact in the world of to-day is making war against itself inevitable in the course of a very few years. Our whole object should be to prevent war.  To argue that we shall do again what is necessary if an emergency occurs is beside the point. Time will not be permitted to us. Equally futile is the contention that if we keep away from trouble, trouble will keep away from us. Everything will depend upon the estimate which foreign nations are led to form of our preparation for war. The British Commonwealth, cannot afford to be caught unprepared. The first thing to be done in Australia is to bring home to the country the grave danger of its present attitude to military training and service. I think that our democracy to-day suffers from its disbelief in the necessity for military organization, but I think that it is instinctively opposed to inequality of sacrifice. When I talk about the necessity for military organization in Australia, I am thinking of the dire necessity for discipline and organization in the event of air raids. I do not propose to go into a technical dissertation on defence, or what form the next war may take, but it is quite conceivable that an aircraft carrier may reach within 60 or 70 miles of our coast, and if that occurred aeroplanes from the ship could, within half an hour, drop bombs upon the capital cities. That could be done quite easily. It is absolutely essential that our civilians should have some organized training, some idea of discipline, and have instilled in them some measure of selfcontrol to avert some of the consequences of such an attack. 
I said just now that the Australian democracy is to-day suffering from a disbelief in the necessity for military training and organization for "war, but that T believe it to be utterly opposed to inequality of sacrifice. Why should the patriotic few give up their leisure in order to undergo military training while the vast majority of Australian men loaf on the job? I am convinced that democratic thought and feeling on this issue is quite sound. If service and sacrifice are necessary, and I submit that they are to-day, they should fall impartially upon the boy whose father has wealth, and the boy whose father may not possess a " bob " or even a job. . Our aim should be universal service - a truly democratic ideal. In such a system of training there should be no distinction of class or wealth, or between man and man. No able-bodied person should be permitted to evade the call. 
Many honorable senators will recall that in November, 1929, by an act of positive insanity the Labour Government of the day, then just in the saddle, absolutely destroyed, presumably at the dictation of the then honorable member for Ballarat and an ignorant caucus, the system of defence which had been built up to a high state of efficiency as the result of twenty years of patient effort. To-day we are paying dearly for that disastrous act of government policy, and paying for it in many ways. I have had recently placed in my hands the annual report of the Royal Military College at Duntroon for the year just ended. It is a revealing document, and shows that once more we are, thank God, moving in the right direction for the efficient training of our military staff. But, unhappily, we are about 120 short of trained staff officers. "We simply have not got them. Honorable senators will realize what this means when I tell them that it takes at least four years of patient training by competent instructors, to turn out a young man fit for his job of military leadership and organization. Untrained mobs and levies, raised in a state of emergency can be " licked " into shape only if we have available an adequate number of highlytrained staff officers. The Kitchener scheme of citizen force training, is a system which this country can very well afford and which, I consider was reasonably efficient. 
With regard to the present arrangements for militia training, I put it to the Government that, in some respects, it is being penny-wise and pound-foolish. I have in mind its attitude to the cadet training organizations in connexion with many of our larger public schools. It is, I contend, reasonable to expect that the Commonwealth should provide the boys belonging to these school cadet organizations with the necessary uniforms, thus relieving many parents of what may be, to them, an unfair burden. Many intelligent and keen youngsters are debarred from joining school cadet corps, because their parents are unable to find the money to provide them with uniforms, which cost about £4. The Government, I understand, contributes £1 towards the cost of uniforms, and the balance nas to be found by the boys' parents. This arrangement is not fair. The aim should be to make these cadet corps really officers' training corps on the lines followed in England in pre-war days, and which has been resumed more recently. It would be sound policy to do this. 
The Royal Military College at Duntroon has had a chequered career, particularly in recent years. It was established about 25 years ago and, for its size, is, without doubt, the finest military college in the British Empire. This is no idle boast; the records amply support my contention. If the college had been in any other country, its wonderful record would have been blazoned forth to the world time after time. The cadets consist of young Australians with a few New Zealanders, and for several years in succession the college won the championship in competition with every military college in the British Empire,, beating those at Kingston in Canada, and! at Sandhurst and Woolwich. 
Whenever I enter the historic church of St. John the Baptist, and see there the tablet to the memory of Duntroon graduates, I am reminded of the truly remarkable record establishe'd by those splendid young Australian officers, 150 in number, who were trained at Duntroon,, and served in the Great War. Of that, total, 42 did not return to Australia, having lost their lives in the world war and 58 were wounded. Almost without exception the Australian staff officers trained at Duntroon were mentioned in the despatches, and received high military decorations for their splendid services to the Empire. If 'we are going to do any good with our system of citizen soldiering, I impress upon honorable senators that the training of staff cadets at the Duntroon Royal Military College must be the keystone of our efforts; so we should do all that lies in our power to see that it is well staffed with officers, and fully  equipped for the efficient training of the lads who secure admission to it. I hope, as the years go on, that every government, irrespective of its political outlook, will fully appreciate the ideal democratic military college which we now possess. The son of even the poorest Australian citizen may, if he has the necessary qualifications, secure admission to the college, and there receive four years of training at the expense of the Government. At the end of four years, the graduate will probably be sent to India or some other portion of the British Empire for further training with troops, as it is not possible to get this additional experience in Australia. Then, at the end of his period of training abroad, he will be returned to Australia a fully-trained officer with the highest ideals of leadership, thoroughly fit in every respect for his important job. I sincerely hope that never again will the college be treated as it was during the depression years. 
.- I have received many letters from Queensland returned soldiers, who are very much concerned at the decision of the Government, announced about a year ago, not to accept further applications for the erection of war service homes. Apparently, insufficient notice was given to permit these men and others to lodge applications, and so participate in the benefits of the  War  Service Homes Act. This seems unfair to a very deserving section of exsoldiers. I should like to know from the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  if it is the intention of the Government to make a sum of money available at  a  later date to give the few remaining members of the Australian Imperial Force, who have not acquired homes under the  War  Service Homes Act, an opportunity to lodge applications. Some of the letters which have reached me, have come from returned soldiers who have been living for several years in mining fields in outback and pastoral areas in Queensland. These men have become too old for strenous manual labour, and are now seeking lighter employment in the larger centres of population. Those who have made inquiries as to the possibility of securing war service homes have been informed that no applications have been received since June of last year. Several most admirable men have informed me that their applications were rejected. As many ex-service men are getting on in years, the department, I assume, takes the view that they will not be able to continue their payments for the full mortgage period fixed by the act, but I feel sure that their repayments would be continued by members of their families. The Government might very well comply with their requests, and  make  it  known  that further applications will be received up to a certain date. This would give the remaining few an opportunity to take advantage of the act, and acquire their own homes. The department has a remarkably good asset in these houses. Until the depression, the repayment instalments in arrears represented less than per cent. of the total advances made, and even now, I venture to say, the percentage of arrears is exceedingly small. I therefore urge the Government to consider the re-opening of applications for war service homes in order to give these men an opportunity to lodge applications. 
I have received several requests from time to time from the South African W ar Veterans Association in Queensland. These men are in their declining years, and some of them are in sore distress. Many of their fellows who have passed away were buried as paupers; in respect of others that tragedy was avoided only by the generosity of their comrades. I realize that these men were sent away by the several States, and that, therefore, it is impossible to provide a definite Commonwealth pension scheme for them; but if a sum of money were placed on the Estimates for distribution by the Minister for Repatriation those in need would at least be spared the indignity of a pauper's funeral. Australia is under an obligation to do something for these men who in their day answered the call of their country as others did later. 
According to a statement which appeared in the press recently,  Mr. Forgan  Smith, the Premier of Queensland, on his return to Australia from the Sugar Conference, said that the State governments are becoming alarmed at the number of foreign migrants coming to Australia,  and that  the entry of so many foreigners was either without the knowledge of the State governments or in direct opposition to their wishes. According to figures .quoted in the press article to which I have referred, there were 125 aliens on board one vessel which recently arrived at an Australian port; the destination of 45 of them was Queensland. I presume that all of them were nominated by relatives or friends who are already resident in Australia. I do not know the Government's intention in this  connexion, or the number of foreign migrants who have entered this country during recent years, but I do know that this subject is being given a good deal of attention in Queensland, particularly in the northern portions of the State. British preference to workers on the cane-field is also a subject of discussion there. I do not say that there is a large influx of aliens into Queensland, but I am concerned' that the Premier of that State should say that foreigners are allowed to come into Australia in direct opposition to the wishes of the State governments. So serious a statement emanating from such a source should be investigated. 
A few weeks ago, when I was in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea, representations were made to me in favour of the erection of a local broadcasting station, either at Rabaul or elsewhere. Immediately on my return I conveyed these representations to the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan),  and urged that the department should reconsider its decision in respect of a B class licence in that territory. I was struck with the remarkable progress that had taken place in New Guinea during the four years that had elapsed since I was there previously. It was most pleasing' to see the new buildings which had been erected, and the development of mining and other primary industries which have taken place under the Australian administration of the territory. On the mainland, in particular, in territory which was practically untouched by the Germans during their occupancy of New Guinea, the development is remarkable. I hope that the Minister will agree to give to these people the broadcasting facilities that they seek. 
Those of us who have visited New Guinea, and know of the isolation of its people realize that the establishment of a broadcasting station there would be of inestimable value to them, particularly thewomen folk who, at times, when their men are absent from home on duty or through sickness or other reasons, are left alone except for a few native servantsMany of them have receiving sets and at times the reception from mainland stations is quite good. Wireless communication with the rest of the world is a godsend to them. With one of the tributers at the Bulolo River I heard the coronation ceremony of Their Majesties the King and Queen. At other times, however, the reception is not good. These people are pioneering new territory and they deserve the facilities which a local broadcasting station would give. Its erection would brighten their lives considerably, and I hope that their request will be acceded to 
A matter of vital concern to Australia is the alarming growth of international propaganda by means of wireless communication and broadcasting. During recent . years many countries have developed an extraordinary technique in this respect. Some of the most prominent nations of the world have their own highly-trained technical staffs, including outstanding linguists, who send out to the world propaganda placed in their hands for the purpose. I am informed on the best authority that speeches are broadcast in languages which make it clear that propaganda detrimental to the British Empire and to ourselves is being indulged in, because such speeches obviously could not serve any other purpose. It may be that some check of these activities is kept, but more should be done, so that we may be better informed as to the views that are being disseminated. 
That is so; but the defence of this country is our chief concern. An adequate defence policy cannot ignore the need to keep up to date with the technique of modern  wireless communication. Nearly every wireless receiving set of recent manufacture is capable of receiving messages from the other side of the world. 1 read recently that Heir  Goebbers,  who is in charge of the propaganda of the German Government, recently said that Australia had definitely been set down for invasion and capture by foreign powers. His statement emphasizes the need for Australia to keep in constant contact with wireless messages broadcast from foreign countries. People everywhere are being influenced by this propaganda, and, consequently, it cannot be ignored. It may be necessary to engage in counter propaganda in order that the world may know the truth. The Department of External Affairs is the proper medium for dealing with this matter and should give it immediate attention. 
A complete topographical survey of this continent should be undertaken without delay. I am aware that an aerial survey of Australia is now taking place, but that is not sufficient. Should Australia be attacked - and I sincerely hope that it will not be - an enemy might land in a portion of the continent the topography of which is practically unknown by the authorities. 
That this should be done on an international scale at once is, in my opinion, imperative. I again emphasize the necessity to link up the southern parts of Australia with the Northern Territory by means of concrete highways. When I discussed this subject on a previous occasion I said that the first essential was the construction of bridges, which some honorable senators contended was impracticable. I still maintain that it will eventually be found necessary to construct main highways to give direct access to the north, and thus provide a more ready means to open up additional territory. 
There are many months in the year when the existing tracks are impassable. When I last mentioned this subject I was informed that bridges would be swept away by flood waters in the wet season, low level bridges constructed of concrete would remain for years anu render great service in making these routes trafficable at practically all periods of the year. Honorable senators cannot have it both ways. I cited the opinion of a gentleman holding an important position in the Northern Territory, to the effect that the building of such highways is essential. There ar.e others, of course, who say that such a scheme is impracticable. 
Yes, in section. According to a paragraph which appeared recently in the Sydney Morning Herald, the construction of the highway from South Australia to the Northern Territory has already been mentioned. 
I do not favour such an extension, because I believe that the time is not far distant when for purposes such as these, railways will be obsolete. The further development of the Northern Territory must be undertaken largely by the construction of roads which can be used by vehicles driven by diesel engines, generating electrical power which is transferred to each unit of the train, such as are now being employed with astounding success in Germany and in the United States of America. If the Northern Territory is to be settled, better means of communication must be provided. Only to-day I read a book by a  Mr. Hadfield  entitled  Through the Windscreen,  to the effect that the Northern Territory could be settled most effectively if its development was in the hands of men of initiative. While there are some who say that extensive and profitable development of the Northern Territory is impracticable, there are others who contend that it has a wonderful future. 
Road construction must first be undertaken to give access to markets. For instance, during drought periods hundreds of thousands of cattle die owing to the lack of adequate transport facilities. 
Has the honorable senator overlooked the fact that only recently an aeroplane driven by a diesel engine was imported to transport sheep ana cattle to good pastures during dry periods of the year?  Senator Foll  referred this evening to the remarkable change that is taking place in certain portions of the Mandated Territory of New Guinea. Surely we have not forgotten that the mining fields of that territory have been developed mainly with the assistance of air transport. Owing to the absence of roads and railways, heavy mining equipment, including dredges, has been transported by that means. 
The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has demonstrated quite clearly what can be done by the application of science to industry. Will the Minister in charge of Development  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  arrange for a thorough investigation to be made of the possibility of producing rubber in Australia or in New Guinea. A prominent industrialist in Sydney asked me to bring this matter forward, because, from personal reading and observation, he believes that rubber can be grown in New Guinea, and perhaps in parts of Australia. Investigations could also be conducted to ascertain whether the plants necessary for the production of jute could be cultivated, so .that we could manufacture our own wool packs and wheat sacks and other jute products instead of importing them in large quantities. 
I shall be pleased to see them. The Australian cotton industry has a great future, but I believe it should be developed further, particularly as cotton is used extensively in  the  manufacture of war material. A mechanical cotton-picker was once regarded as an impossibility, but eighteen months ago I mentioned that such a machine to collect the cotton bolls had been invented by the Rust brothers, in the United States of America. I understand that one of these machines is being brought to 
Australia for experimental purposes in the Queensland cotton fields. 
Some time ago I read that it had been decided to store certain phonograph records and cinematograph films in our Parliamentary Library. I do not know to what extent this branch of the Library is to be developed; but provision should be made to retain records of the spoken word, and also motion pictures of the  speaker.  Such records should be kept of debates on important subjects in this Parliament. Moreover, the Library could be supplied with records of important speeches delivered in the British Parliament. Although that will not be done for some considerable time, it will, nevertheless, be eventually accomplished; at one time man never, thought of preserving the written word, but eventually utilized the printing press to do so. I should like to see the innovation, which has been introduced, together with my suggestions, made an important part of our National Library. I suggest to the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  that, as a part of the operations of the Australian broadcasting system, attention should be paid to the development of television. We should not leave all of the pioneering work in this field to other countries, such  as Great Britain. In that respect I remind honorable senators of the early history of wireless. The head of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited,  Sir Ernest  Fiske, was a pioneer of wireless, and, to-day, is recognized as such throughout the world. In that field he has accomplished many things which have redounded to his and Australia's credit, but when he was conducting his early experiments, he was laughed at. I should like to see the Government enter the experimental field so far as television is concerned, although, I might add, television is practically beyond the experimental stage; indeed, some of the Coronation scenes were witnessed by many people in this way. Let us allocate some of the money which we expend on broadcasting, amounting to hundreds of thousands of pounds annually, to the development of television. 
I emphasise that it is essential in the' interest of the development and prosperity of this country that a national survey of the potential capacity of Aus-  tralia should be undertaken. America provides an excellent example in that regard. After all, such a survey is an essential part of the modern science of government, because economics are becoming a major part of government. The only way in which to govern a country effectively is to base its future development on a scientific survey of its potential capacity. If they read the official reports dealing with American ac.tivity in this direction, honorable senators will marvel at what is being done in that country. From those reports, one can study every phase of American life, as the survey deals with every ramification of the life of that nation. On this survey, a scientific plan is being plotted, and, according to this plan, the country will be scientifically developed. I repeat that such a study is an essential part of the science of government. No government can develop a country in the most effective way for the people living in it unless it is acquainted with the full potentialities of the country. It must have definite information, for example, as to what the people can produce, and what constitutes a full wage in relation to the fullest possible consumption of products. These are things which, by scientific investigation, can be brought down to a common-sense basis. As yet we have hardly scratched the surface of Australia from the point of view of production; this continent has enormous possibilities, but we shall not fully realize those possibilities unless we view this problem with scientific eyes. I believe that if a committee were established to conduct such a survey as I suggest  it would develop into as fine an institution as is the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. 
I was greatly interested in the remarks of  Senator Arkins  with respect to a national survey of the country's potential capacity. Undoubtedly, as a nation, we have merely ambled along and picked the soft spots df this  country; we have failed to deal with many of our big problems along the right lines. Not only this Government, but also past governments, have failed to give us anything like. a proper survey of Australia's big problems, and our lack in this regard is particularly felt in respect of the northern portion of this continent. I propose to quote statements made recently by two gentlemen who are familiar with the Northern Territory, each of whom gives some startling facts concerning the state of things in that part of Australia. An interview with Captain Frank Hurley, who is well known throughout Australia, is reported in an issue of the Brisbane  Telegraph  last week as follows : - 
There is developing on north Australian shores a mixed breed with a Japanese 6train. This is not surprising when it is realized that at Thursday Island alone 400 virile young Japanese are indentured to the pearl fisheries. Though Darwin has a lesser complement, there are 100 alien luggers with an aggregate of another 1,000 hands operating off the northers and north-east coasts. In a few years, if present conditions continue, the pearling industry will have gone the way of the pearl - into the hands of Japan. The poaching of trochusshell was prevalent.  Every  shell irrespective of size in fact, almost everything that lived or had any commercial use was scavenged. It was difficult to apprehend the poachers shell in hand owing to the Argus-eyed look-out and to the fact that they were familiar with every shelter and getaway. The industry, maintained some white population in tropical Australia,, and on this score alone, apart from revenue, no effort should be spared to retain it. 
Without levelling a charge against this Government in particular, it is clear that we have neglected the development of an important industry in our northern waters. Last week an interview with  Mr. J.  Brand, of Thursday Island, was reported in an issue of the Brisbane  Telegraph  as follows: - 
The pearling industry of this country, instead of being worked by Australian divers, is nowadays in the hands of the Japanese who  ure  making large sums. Out of 36 luggers which go out from Thursday Island, only two white' men are on board, and one of these is my own. I always go out in it to  supervize  The pearling industry to-day in some instances may be run by Australian, owners or companies, but almost exclusively Japanese are given the jobs of divers and members of the lugger crews. It cannot be 6aid that white men arc inferior to the Japanese' as divers because the Admiralty-trained divers are recognized throughout the world as being without equals. It should be compulsory for  every  lugger to carry at least one white man as master, as a starting point, and later on make it a White Man's industry . . . There are numerous instances of divers making up to £1,000 a year. At present the pearling industry is being run to afford employment for the coloured men. Many owners won't even give an Australian a " cat's chance " to make a living. Unless Australians soon awake, the pearling industry will pass into the hands of the Japanese. It will be useless to complain then. It is for the authorities to grapple with the matter right now and make it a truly white man's industry. The risk is not as great diving for pearl shell as that taken daily by coal-miners. 
I do not think that these figures have been published before, but as I have not seen any governmental document which sets out the position in respect of our great marine industries in northern waters, including the gathering of pearlshell, trochus-shells and beche-de-mer, I shall have to accept them as truly reflecting the facts. These statements should he carefully investigated by the Government. 
Apparently, the encroachment of the Japanese has arisen because of our neglect of those waters. From time to time we have heard complaints that Japanese have not only poached in our waters, but have also come  ashore  and conducted themselves with our aboriginal women in a manner which we should not permit in any circumstances. These incidents are happening from year to year, but the Government apparently is prepared more or less to ignore them. 

 Senator Arkins has rightly said that, because of certain of the remarks which he has just made, some honorable senators will regard him as a visionary. For the honorable senator's benefit,  I may  say that there are some people who, as soon as one dares to express an idea less than 250 years old, claim that he is fit for cold storage, and that the only difficulty arising in his case is to find suitable freezing works for his accommodation. As the honorable senator  has  pointed  out,  nothing has been done to provide effective means of transport between the southern States and the Northern Territory. The lack of such facilities is one of the greatest handicaps to the development of that part of Australia. We have it on the authority of many experts that the most rapid and effective way of developing the territory is to connect it by railway with Queensland. Queenslanders because of their greater experience of tropical conditions, should be given the first opportunity to assist in the development of the Northern Territory, and the Barkly Tableland. As  Senator Arkins  said, some people hold that the Northern Territory has a wonderful future, and others condemn it. A former administrator,  Dr. Gilruth,  said once that he would not accept 5,000 square miles of the country as a gift. I agree with  Senator Arkins,  however, that the Northern Territory, because of the experience that has been gained, has a better future than its past, which has been disfigured by inefficient administration, and lack of sound planning. There is a better future for the territory than any Australian government has so far assured for it, but we should be shutting our eyes to the facts if we said that within a few years the territory would support a population of 2,000,000. It has taken Victoria 100 years to achieve a population of 2,000,000 and Queensland 120 years, a population of scarcely 1,000,000. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that a substantial population could be assured to the territory by sound planning and, if necessary, a little paternal socialism. Private enterprise has failed in the territory. I daresay the people who settled in that country in the earlier generations were simply stockmen who wanted to keep it a close preserve. We have had the same experience in western Queensland, where the earlier settlers tried to get the land closed against closer settlement. If people are fenced out of the Northern Territory by stories that it has no future beyond what is provided by sheep and cattle grazing, we shall never have a population there of more than 5,000 persons. 
To  a  certain extent I agree with the honorable senator. As  a  matter of fact, because of the fact that the average annual rainfall is only about 10 inches, and conditions are generally unsuitable for close settlement, the holdings in western Queensland should be large stations. I am not blind to the practical side of the matter, but I do say that with planned economy, social services, and military organization - military preparedness is necessary if we are to hold it - the Northern Territory should eventually support  a  population of at least 50,000 persons. A popula- tion of that size is necessary to give us our first line of defence. There is no doubt that up to the present we have failed to develop the territory as it should be developed, and although  Senator Arkins  has made several constructive suggestions, those in authority do not appear able to listen to anything that is new. They prefer to stick to the old methods, and, because one failure has occurred, they appear to believe that the Northern Territory, as a commercial proposition, is doomed for all time.  Senator Arkins  pointed to previous conquests over great difficulties which were believed to be unsurmountable. In our own lifetime there have been many wonderful changes. I remember myself regarding flight by heavier than air craft as impossible. In my younger days in Melbourne I saw iwo Frenchmen - men with high reputations - attempt to fly in a mechanical contraption, but their effort met with failure. Accordingly, I was doubtful that flight by such means would ever be achieved by mankind, until one morning I  waB  confronted with the proof that the miracle had been accomplished. That was only the beginning! For thousands of years men of vision had been laughed at and scorned for attempting to do what the people believed was only for the birds. 
 Science has said many things which have been proved wrong. At one time it said that the world was flat and that everything revolved around this little show of ours called the earth. 
Yes, in some cases that was so. But to come back to what is at issue, I suggest that governmental authorities should make an examination into the statements of Captain Hurley and  Mr. Brand  regarding the Northern Territory and all matters concerned with it with  a  view to making this portion of Australia what it should be, and not merely a fighting ground and a breeding place for all kinds of Asiatics, as it has  been in the  past. I am pleased that  Senator Arkins,  although he and I differ in politics, has pointed out the need for a new plan for the Northern Territory. We must improve on what has been done in the past. There is no doubt that we could do more for the defence of the territory if we developed it on a national plan. 

 Senator Foll this afternoon referred to a letter which he had received from the South African War Veterans Association. My colleagues and I have received similar letters.  Senator Foil's  appeal for a pension for the veterans of the South African campaign was reasonable. It is about 35 years since that campaign ended - I do not want to go into its cause, which many people who supported the allied case in the last war condemned - but it took place, and this country entered into it by collaborating with Great Britain and sending troops. In his letter, as  Senator Foll  pointed out, the secretary of the South African War Veterans Association claims that it is not equitable that the men who went from Australia to fight the Boers should go to a pauper's grave. Any one acquainted with a pauper's funeral will blush to know that these old soldiers have been treated so shabbily. There is no reason why they should not be given treatment similar to that given to the veterans of the Great War. A thing that can truly be said  about past wars is that  very little consideration was given in after years to those who escaped with their lives. I have first-hand knowledge that 40 years elapsed before those who fought in the Maori war received a pension, and., at least by Australia, the South African war veterans have been treated nearly as badly. I hope the Minister to whom the veterans have applied will give sympathetic consideration to their appeal. 
In conclusion, I express my belief that Parliament was called together too late this year. The decision to bring us here in the middle of June, when the weather at Canberra is at its worst, can be ascribed to one motive only, and that is that the Government did not want Parliament to meet while the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  and a couple of other Ministers were away. The Government did not want anything to happen which might mar the pleasure of those who are  overseas.  March and April went by, and  just  when  it  suited the Ministry - when the big shows in Britain were over - we were brought here suddenly, and at a moment's notice had the Supply Bill thrown at us.  It  ia a ridiculous state of affairs, against which I have protested .in past years. I do not intend to obstruct the passage of this measure,  but  I felt that I had to take the opportunity afforded  by the  first-reading  to  deal  'with  the matters which I have covered  in  my speech. 
.- I take this opportunity  to  appeal  to the  Government to grant a service pension to the South African war veterans who are in necessitous circumstances. The number of veterans concerned is estimated to be about 200. About 18,000 Australians took part  in the South African campaign.  Seventy-six per cent, of them also served in the Great War, and, therefore, 'are entitled to the benefits conferred by the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Act. The majority of the other 24 per cent, are not in need of any help, but about 200 South African veterans throughout the Commonwealth are unemployable because of advanced age, and (mental and physical incapacity, undoubtedly due to the rigours of active service. The Commonwealth Government has incurred little or no post-war expenditure in connexion with those who fought in the South African campaign. The British Government has met, and is still meeting, pension payments to South African war veterans and their dependants. The 200 men to whom I have referred are a "lost legion." The South African Soldiers Association in each State is not wealthy, but it helps out of its meagre funds those who need succour. As  president  of the association in Victoria for five years, I have firsthand knowledge of the distress amongst those men and their families. They often come to me and state their cases. As federal president-elect of these associations, I appeal to the Government to set aside a small sum in the forthcoming Estimates to provide for those veterans in need a small pension under the same conditions as apply to pensions granted to those who served in the Great War. By so doing, the Government will come into line with the Government of New Zealand, which does not differentiate between the two campaigns. 
I listened with interest to the remarks of other honorable senators who have preceded me concerning the development of the Northern Territory. Since it is Commonwealth territory, members of this Parliament are responsible, through the Government, for the measures taken to develop it. I congratulate the Government upon the interest which it has evinced in this problem during the last twelve months, and I approve of the appointment of the present Administrator,  Mr. Abbott.  The appointment of the Land Board to inquire into and report upon schemes for its development is also a step in the right direction. My feeling is that the greatest measure of success is likely to result from the exploitation of the natural resources of the territory. The pastoralists there have not, up to the present time, received the consideration to which they are entitled. Rentals are considerably higher than in the adjoining States, and what is equally important, they have not the same fixity of tenure. 
I accept the correction from the Leader of the Senate. I was certainly under the impression that land rentals in the Northern Territory were higher than those in Queensland or Western Australia. Apparently I - was wrong, but I know they are higher than in South Australia, and I repeat that their grievance about fixity of tenure is substantial. Under a proposal made some years ago for the closer settlement of the territory, lessees will be required to surrender a portion of their leases at the end of a fixed term of years. Several pastoralists have written to me complaining that under this arrangement they will be obliged to surrender those portions of their properties which are most highly developed and upon which they depend for permanent water. As regards the appointment of the Administrator, I disagree with many critics of the Government. I know of no one better fitted to discharge the important duties of that office than is the gentleman who has been appointed. I say, without reservation, that  Mr. Abbott  propounded the only practical scheme that has ever been presented for the development of the Northern Territory on sound lines. I do not mean that I approve of all the details of the proposal which he outlined, but 1 am in agreement with its general principles.  Mr. Abbott  quite properly concentrated on plans for the development of the cattle industry. I feel sure that if his recommendations were adopted we should soon establish a good overseas* market for chilled beef raised on Northern Territory pastures.  His  proposal involved the expenditure of about £1,000,000, but when we take into consideration the fact that many millions have been already expended on developmental schemes for the Northern Territory, and apparently without success, the venturing of an additional £1,000,000, with a view to establishing an export trade in beef, seems to be well worth while.  Mr. Abbott's  proposal includes the transport of cattle in the Northern Territory by motor vehicles and the erection of meat-works at Vanderlin Island. The idea of transporting cattle by motor vehicle is not so fantastic as some people 'believe it to be. Thi? system has been in, operation for many years in Argentina, where thousands of cattle are handled yearly. The adoption of such a scheme in the Northern Territory would enable us to compete successfully in the British market with what is known as baby beef - cattle from two to three years old - which is in such demand there. I am sure that  Mr. Abbott's  heart is in his work and that he will do everything possible to make his term as Administrator a successful one. One honorable senator spoke this evening of roads and bridges as part of a scheme for development. The honorable gentleman apparently has had no experience of conditions in the territory, or he would know that the construction of concrete roads would be entirely unnecessary. For about ten months of the year, Northern Territory roads are fit for motor traffic, and all that is required is to concrete the bottoms of creeks which, when in flood, are of immense width, rendering the construction of concrete bridges quite impracticable. Flood waters come down in such great volume that very few structures could withstand the impact of water and debris. To give honorable senators an idea of how rapidly flood waters rise in that class' of country I may mention that, some years ago,  Mr. Scott,  manager of the Mount Leonard station in Queensland, was overwhelmed and drowned in flood waters which came down one of the creeks on his property. When the water had subsided his body was found entangled in the branches of a gum tree  30  feet above the normal level of the creek. I sincerely trust that everything possible will be done for the development of the Northern Territory, and again I congratulate the Government on the appointment of'  Mr. Abbott  as Administrator. 
, - I listened with much interest to the remarks of  Senator James  McLachlan, and entirely endorse his approval of the Government's policy to develop the Northern Territory. Similar attention should be given to the northwest coastal districts of Western Australia. I am convinced that, before many years elapse, we shall be compelled to do something to promote settlement in that part of my State if we wish to hold it. I cannot speak from personal knowledge of conditions in the Northern Territory, but I am familiar with my own State, and if the electors are good enough to return me when next I appeal to them I shall visit the territory to familiarize myself with its problems. 
I commend the Government for its proposal to construct a vessel for fisheries research, and I trust that the claims of Western Australia will not be overlooked. The waters off the north-west of Western Australia teem with fish of great potential value. I hope that the research vessel to be built by the Government will investigate the possibilities there. 
I protest against the delay in the issue of uniforms to members of the militia in Western Australia. It is disgraceful that patriotic and public-minded citizens, who give up so much of their time to undergo military training in order better to equip themselves to serve this country iu an emergency, should be expected also to provide their own uniforms. Early this year I was in Bunbury and met a number of residents there who complained that they had to do all their military training in their own clothes. The least that the military authorities can do is to provide these men with uniforms as quickly as possible. Parliament will be asked to vote a tremendous sum of money this year for defence purposes; it is not too much to ask that a portion of the amount be set aside for uniforms for civilian soldiers. 
I hope that the Government will give serious consideration to the request of wheat-growers in "Western Australia to participate in the subsidy provided for the purchase of fertilizers. This subsidy has been the means of encouraging pasture improvement and orchard culture, so expenditure on this account has not been lost to the nation. I hope that wheat-growers will, this year, be eligible for the benefits of that subsidy. 
Payments made under the Apple and Pear Bounty Act have also benefited our producers. As most honorable senators are aware very low prices have ruled this year for apples and pears. Growers in my State have suffered very heavy losses and they are finding difficulty in carrying on. They have approached the Government for assistance, which, I regret to state, has not been forthcoming. I hope that during the .coming year it will be possible to increase the bounty. This is an industry which is capable of considerable expansion. Apples can be grown in soil which is of little use for growing other crops; the light gravelly soil which is so suitable for them does not generally give good returns if put under other crops. 
At Albany, in Western Australia, there is a woollen mill which, in my opinion, is entitled to greater consideration in connexion with contracts for the military and railway requirements of the Commonwealth. In considering military contracts, ocean freights between. Albany and manufacturing centres in Melbourne are taken into consideration. The Navigation Act operates harshly against Western Australia. At times cloth from the Albany mill is sent 300 miles by rail to Fremantle and then shipped to the Eastern States for manufacture. Probably some of it is returned later to Western Australia for use by the militia there. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence  to look into this matter. 
Many country districts in Queensland suffer through lack of adequate telephonic communication. In this connexion I instance a district which I know well; other districts may be in a similar position. There is a suggestion that a telephone line should be erected between Winton and Boulia, a distance of about 245 miles, but the department has objected to the proposal on the ground that the revenue from the line would not pay interest and sinking fund commitments. The provision of proper telegraphic and telephonic communication in outback districts should be regarded, not so much in the light of revenue as of the fact that they are developmental lines. The traffic over telephone lines serving outback districts is not the total business associated with the district that it serves, because the produce of such districts is sent to the cities, where further use of the telephone system is made. A portion of the revenue derived from telephone services in the cities should rightly be credited to country lines. In 1920, the Department paid £856 to the mail contractor for the carriage of mails between Winton and Boulia, but this year, the cost to the Commonwealth for similar services is only £85. The department surely will not maintain that the contractor is now running the service for his own pleasure, at a loss; and therefore, it must agree that the difference between the contract rates is a contribution to its funds by the people of the district. The savings effected by the department in respect of the mail contract should be utilized to  provide a better telephone service for the district. Another mail service runs between Winton and Kynuna. In 1919, the mail contract cost the department £565, but, this year, the same service is rendered at a cost of £44. That service represents 220 miles of travelling weekly, which would cost the contractor "much more than £44 a year. Obviously, therefore, the department, in this instance also, is making a saving at the expense of the people of the district. 
This is a matter of great concern to the residents of outback districts. They are entitled to better treatment; and out of the savings which it has effected in respect of mail contracts the Government should provide it. 
For a long time I have advocated the erection of a wireless broadcasting station in western Queensland. The Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J; McLachlan)  informed the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  a few days ago, in reply to a question, that a short wave station in New South Wales served that district. That may be, but as many of the people in that area cannot afford dual wave sets, the short wave station is not of much use to them. A regional station should be provided to serve the settlers in the far western country. 
For a number of years portions of Queensland have been affected by severe droughts, with the result that the losses of stock have been enormous. In July, 1935, when the drought broke, 3,330,000 sheep were lost in Western and North-western Queensland. Had a catastrophe of that magnitude occurred in any of the capital cities of Australia, the newspapers would have had headlines an inch high informing readers of the fact; but because these things happen in outback districts, where the population is small, they are given little prominence. Statistics compiled by the Queensland Statistician from .stock returns supplied to the 
Clerks of Petty Sessions, show a further loss of .5,360,000 sheep between 1931 and 1935, which also was a drought period. The year 1930 was fair. But between 1925 when the drought commenced, and 1929, a further 8,170,000 sheep were lost. In other words, 16,860,000 sheep were lost in ten years. Those  figures  provide food for thought. Apart from the loss qf the sheep themselves, the value of the wool which they would have produced, even in those bad years when the price was as low as 8d. per lb., would have been considerable. I realize that the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has done much to assist pastoralists in connexion with animal disease, nutrition, the blow-fly pest, &amp;c, but no one seems to realize the terrific losses which graziers incur through droughts. Losses due to dingoes, fluke, the blow-fly and other pests are small in comparison with those caused by drought ; recent investigations have shown that drought is responsible for 700 out of every 1,000 sheep lost. During the recess I visited the west and north-western portions of Queensland, and at all the meetings I attended I was asked if the Commonwealth Government could not assist graziers to restock their holdings. When I brought this matter forward last year I was informed that the Commonwealth Government could not make a grant for this purpose to one State, as other States could make similar claims; but I fail to understand why, under the Farmers' Debt Adjustment Act, settlers cannot be assisted to restock their holdings. Surely that act can be amended to enable money to be made available for this purpose, and thus allow these deserving men to get on their feet again. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later hour. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The re-stocking of pastoral holdings presents the greatest difficulty with which graziers have to contend. The abundant growth of grass which is now going to waste will soon become a menace to other settlers. "When the hot winds commence in November and December, the risk of fire will be great, and should an outbreak occur thousands of acres of good grass will be destroyed. Owing to the limited means of these settlers, the provision of necessary firebreaks is impracticable. This matter has been brought under the notice of the Queensland Government, which is sympathetic, and, as Commonwealth Ministers will be conferring with State Ministers at a meeting of the Loan Council in J  July,  perhaps arrangements can be made for Ministers to meet representatives of the financial institutions and graziers. If that were done, I believe that finance could be provided to assist the re-stocking of this country, which has been so severely affected by drought during the last ten years. I understand that £12,000,000 of loan money has been voted by the Commonwealth Parliament for farmers' debt adjustment, but that, owing to the States requiring for public works a certain proportion of the loan money available, the amount that could be immediately applied to debt adjustment has been reduced. I understand  that the  States have used only £1,817,000 of the £12,000,000, and that Queensland has had only £125,000. Victoria, which, up to the present has utilized only £562,000, has granted some relief to graziers. Surely an arrangement could be made with the Queensland Government and representatives of the financial institutions for funds to re-stock these holdings. At the conclusion of a large and important public meeting, I received the following letter dated the 23rd June: - 
As a concrete example of the paralysing effect, the under-stocking of the north-west has upon industry generally, it was disclosed during the meeting that the- average total sheep holding of the Richmond Petty Session district (which excludes Hughenden, Winton and Julia Creek), over six years from 1930, to 1935, were over 1,012,000 sheep. Following the abnormal stock losses in 1935, to 1936, returns disclose the total holding as 489,000 sheep - a drop of 523,000 sheep or 61 per cent, of the average. 
Another portion of the letter read - 
The frightful effect upon industry and employment generally, quite apart from the capital losses suffered by graziers, may be gauged from the fact that the drop of 523,000 sheep below the average might well represent 11,500 bales of wool or £253,000 of lost income for the year. With the State enrolment for this* district at approximately 950 adults, the money loss represents approximately a decline of £2(16 per adult for the year. 
That does not take into account the increase that would have followed if onehalf of the number lost were ewes. I have brought this matter under the notice of the Government in the hope that it will confer with the Queensland Government to see if assistance in the form I have suggested cannot be given to these settlers who, through no fault of their own, are in such straitened circumstances. Our annual loss from drought is so serious that we would be justified in appointing a Minister to deal wholly and solely with this matter. I sincerely hope that the Leader of the Senate will bring the matters which I have raised before the Cabinet, and that something tangible will result from its consideration of this problem. 
I wish to bring a few matters under the notice of the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan).  Several requests have already been made to him for the restoration of travelling post offices in Tasmania which were discontinued during the depression. The people have done without these facilities for some time now, but it was never thought that their discontinuance would be permanent, as seems now to be the case. The communities most affected are small inland country towns adjacent to railways. In view of the improvement which has taken place in Government finance generally, and in post office revenue in particular, I suggest that the time is opportune for a restoration of these services. In some cases mails may he carried 20 or 30 miles past small towns to an official post office where the mails are sorted, and are not returned to the towns of destination until the following day. Having regard to the great benefits conferred by travelling post offices, the cost of maintaining such, services should not be an obstacle to their restoration. Residents in many small towns in Tasmania would greatly appreciate some intimation from the PostmasterGeneral in respect of this matter. 
To-day I asked the Postmaster-General whether salaries in respect of allowance post offices would be raised as the result of the increase of the basic wage, and he replied to the effect that when they were fixed the salaries of employees engaged at these post offices were above the basic wage. I believe that he must have misunderstood my question. 
But the allowance to assisted post offices is based entirely on the amount of business done. 
I shall do that. 
I wish to support the request made by  Senator Marwick  for a liberal grant this year to assist the applegrowers, who are now in a most unfortunate position. The London market has practically collapsed, and I read in the  Sydney Morning Herald  recently that the price received in London and Liverpool for the three choicest varieties - Jonathans, Delicious and Cleopatraswas from 5s. 6d. to 8s. 6d. a case. I point out that the cost of the cases, packing and transport, averages about 8s. a case. On these prices the grower receives jio return at all. Furthermore, the season on the London market is confined tr» a period of twelve weeks. In order to stabilize that market, Australian and Slew Zealand growers have agreed to an export quota. Nevertheless, the market has failed to absorb even the limited supplies. It is impossible for the apple industry to organize itself like the dried fruits industry. The growers are always being told to organize their industry, but T point out that, unlike dried fruits, apples are perishable, and must be sold when they are ready and the market is available. The producers of dried fruits to-day retain sufficient in Australia to supply the home market and sell the surplus production overseas for whatever they can get. The apple-growers are in an entirely different position; they can send only a limited quantity overseas and have to sell the remainder in Australia  for  what it will bring. Furthermore, the apple orchardist has no  Control  over selling and buying in his industry; he is obliged to purchase his requirements in a dear market, and sell his product in a cheap market. I emphasize that this is an important industry, particularly from the point of view of closer settlement, and because the small -areas suitable for cultivation as apple orchards cannot be utilized for dairying or agriculture. The only way to help this industry effectively is through a direct bounty. Such a grant would not be unfair to other primary industries because the dried fruits, butter and sugar industries are indirectly financed by the consumers of these products in order to enable them to carry on. Similar schemes cannot be applied to the apple industry, and, consequently, the only way in which to help it is by a direct grant. If sugar-growers were obliged to sell' a limited quantity of sugar on the English market at, say, £14 a ton, and sell the balance in an Australian glutted market, they would not be able to carry on. Nor could the producers of dried fruits and butter in relative circumstances. However, the apple-growers are compelled to carry on in face of difficulties of this nature. *I repeat that through the collapse of the London market they are now in a most unfortunate position. Only to-day I received a letter from the  chairman  of the State Fruit Board in Tasmania, which is a semi-governmental body. The letter stated - 
The collapse of the United Kingdom market must, undoubtedly, cause serious monetary loss to growers, and it is very doubtful, when taking the average into account, that the return will cover the actual cost of marketing. 
Further, the State Fruit Board of Tasmania has not submitted representations for bounty, as it is awaiting the finalization of United Kingdom returns before submitting a request to the Federal Government. 
The other day I asked a question on this point, and the Minister replied that he had not received such a request from the growers. This statement explains the reason why; the growers have not been able to put in all the returns from their sale notes. But the Minister's reply also led one to infer that a number of growers had sold their fruit, and that the only loss was suffered by the buyers. This letter continued - 
It is true that many growers have sold a portion of their crop f.o.b., but it must be borne in mind that the high rate of freight is the main factor in determining the f.o.b. prices. 
I have endeavoured to ascertain exactly the proportions of the fruit sold f.o.b., and that sent on consignment. I believe that about 60 per cent. of it has been sold on consignment, that is, on the grower's own account, and this fruit is bringing a price in London and Liverpool that barely covers the cost of packing and freight. The  chairman  of the State Fruit Board in his letter added - 
I would strongly stress the fact that the Australian quota was again reduced this year with the result that the interstate markets are glutted with choice fruit which is being sold at non-remunerative prices. 
I might add that this year thousands of cases of apples will not be marketed at all. Last year a portion of the grant to the apple-growers was ear-marked for research. The growers now contend that the whole of the money should be given to them, because they are so badly off. The letter continues - 
I am of the opinion that this amount should bo taken into consideration when the grant for 1937 export is being considered. 
The letter also asks that Tasmanian federal members will wait upon the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  to place before him the strongest possible representations for a bounty on this year's export of apples and pears. I have taken the opportunity to bring up the matter at this stage, because I shall not have another opportunity to do so before the Estimates are considered. In conclusion, this letter stated - 
I would mention that prices realized this year arc the lowest for some years, and the position of the industry is, indeed, serious. 
I agree that the industry is in an extremely serious plight. I hope that the Government will give every consideration to the representations which I have made, and provide a much more liberal bounty this year than was provided last year. 
[10.45]. -  in reply  - The various matters mentioned by honorable senators will be placed before the Ministers whose departments are concerned. I point out, in all friendliness, that many points have been raised that might have been discussed more appropriately at the committee stage, when questions asked about details of administration could be answered by the Ministers concerned. On the first reading of a Supply bill, it is usual for honorable senators to avail themselves of the opportunity presented to debate general matters not referred to in the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
[10.47].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to grant Supply to carry on the services of the Commonwealth for the first two months of the coming financial year. The clauses and schedule of the bill have been framed in accordance with the practice adopted in past years. The amount which the committee is asked to  appropriate from revenue is £5,776,890, which includes the following sums for ordinary services: - 

<graphic href="153332193706296_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

Provision is made in the bill only for the amount which is estimated to he sufficient to carry on the essential services on the basis of the appropriations by the Parliament for the present year. The items making up this total represent approximately one-sixth of those appropriations, except in a few cases where the expenditure is heavy in the early months of the financial year. 
In accordance with the cost of living provisions of the Public Service and other regulations, the salaries of Commonwealth employees willbe increased from the 1st July, 1937, the maximum increase being £6 per annum in the case of an adult male officer. This increase will involve an annual expenditure of approximately £200,000 per annum. 
The usual provisions are made in the hill for refunds of revenue and advance to the Treasurer, the amountsbeing £350,000 and £1,500,000, respectively. The latter amountis mainly required to carry on uncompleted works in progress at the 30th June, 1937, and to cover unforeseen and miscellaneous expenditure. It will also permit of a continuation of special grants to South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania. The special grants to those States will be continued on the same basis as the grants approved by Parliament for the present financial year, pending the receipt of the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission and the subsequent introduction of new bills, when any necessary adjustments will be made. No provision is made for any new expenditure, or any departure from present policy. 
The present time appears to be an appropriate occasion to furnish to honorable senators an indication of the possible results of this financial year. The Consolidated Revenue Fund for the eleven months ended the 31st May discloses that, during that period, receipts exceeded expenditure by £1,800,000. This is largely due to the lag in expenditure, and cannot be taken as indicating the likelihood of a surplus of that magnitude when the year closes. Receipts for the full year from indirect taxes, that is, customs, excise and sales tax, are expected closely to approximate the budget estimate. Income tax revenue will exceed the estimate.Revenue under other head* will be practically normal. Unforeseen expenditure includes £150,000 by way of grants to the States in December last in order to provide assistance to persons out of employment, and £100,000 to cover the cost of the recent referendum. 
The Commonwealth estimates of expenditure out of loan for the current year included an amount of £600,000 for telephone exchange services. This amount has been expended, but, in view of the difficulty of raising loan money for public works, particularly in May and November of last year, the Government has decided to provide £300,000 of this expenditure from revenue, leaving only £300,000 charged to the loan account for this purpose. The necessary adjustment of the appropriations will be made when the supplementary estimates of expenditure from revenue are introduced at a later date. Notwithstanding these unforeseen items, and our heavy commitments in the current month, I am glad to give the assurance that, in regard to the ConsolidatedRevenue Fund, operations will be satisfactory. I hope to be in a position, within a few days after the 30th June, to make available to honorable senators a statement setting out in some detail the revenue and expenditure of the year. I am confident that the returns will then disclose a surplus. 
Question resolved in the affirmative-. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate the following questions with reference to his attack on the press yesterday: - 
.  Under what sectionof the Constitution does the Minister claim the power to control or censor the Australian press? 
Is it the Minister's intention to have the proposed control or censorship of the Australian press conducted by the Australian Book Censors, or will a new department be established for the purpose? 
If, as suggested by the Minister, the Aus tralian press is  to  be compelled  to  publish speeches by Ministers and members, which competent journalists at present regard asof insufficient public interest  to  mention, does the Government intend  to  pay for the space occupied  at  advertising rates? 
Will the Minister refrain from exercising the proposed control or censorship over the Australian press until the electors have had an opportunity to pass judgment - or sentence of death - on this proposed limitation of the freedom of the Australia press? 
Order ! The  latter part of  the question  is  frivolous. 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate advise honorable senators as to when they may expect the report of the Monetary and Banking Commission? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether the press report of this morning is correct, that the Postal Department has this year returned a surplus amounting to several millions of pounds? If so, is it the intention of the honorable gentleman to recommend to his colleagues in the Cabinet that penny postage be restored in Australia? 
The latter portion of the question involves a matter of policy with which Cabinet must deal ; I can make no statement regarding it. The press must possess the faculty of pre-vision if it is able to state what surplus has been made this year by the Postal Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
When will an improvement be made in the tri-weekly railway service from Perth to the eastern States, to obviate two of the three weekly trains leaving on consecutive days, namely, Friday and Saturday? 
When agreement has been reached by the railway administrations of Western Australia and South Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What saving will be made in the time spent travelling between Perth and Melbourne or Perth and Canberra, by the adoption of the Red Hill deviation next month? 
The saving in time will be dependent on the negotiations now in train between the Commonwealth and States' Railways Commissioners. When new locomotives now being constructed are available it is expected that time-tables will be introduced permitting for arrival in Melbourne a day earlier than at present. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral  upon notice - 
Has the Minister seen a press report to the effect that it is proposed to change the present air mail route, Darwin-Daly WatersPerth to Darwin-Adelaide-Perth? 
If theGovernment is considering such a proposal will it be remembered that such a change may cause very great inconvenience to the people of Western Australia? 
Will the Minister make a full statement upon the subject? 
I have seen the press report referred to in the first portion of the honorable senator's question. No consideration has been given to the matter by the Government. When it is considered, a full statement will be made upon it. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Has a contract been made for the Air Mail Service between Sydney and Rabaul? 
If so, who were the successful tenderers; and 
What is the amount payable under such contract ? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
For the beautification of our country roads, the protection of bird life, and the prevention of soil erosion, will he take action to have all trees lopped near telephone lines instead of destroying them? 
The cutting of trees adjacent to telephone lines is restricted to such timber as can be regarded as an interference to communication services. Where lopping of limbs would suffice to prevent the likelihood of interference, removal of the trees is not permitted, and officers of the department have been given strict instructions that no unnecessary cutting or lopping is to be carried out. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether consideration has been given to the decisions of the conference of the Australian Teachers' Federation held recently in Melbourne to the effect (1) , that education should be consummated on a national basis; (2) that a grant of loan money to be used in the direction of relief of unemployment, while most welcome, is not all that is essential: (3) that education shallbe a charge upon the Commonwealth as well as State Budgets, and that the Commonwealth subsidize education? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Acting Prime Minister has supplied the following answer :  - 
Representations were recently made by the Australian Teachers' Federation urging that the matter of financial assistance for education be accepted as a Commonwealth as well as a State responsibility. The Federation was informed that the Commonwealth Government could not see its way to assume financial responsibility for grants for the purpose of education 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to intervene in the proceedings before the High 
Court regarding the validity of the Commonwealth Bankruptcy Act, consequent upon the restraining order issued against the Judge in Bankruptcy by  Mr. Justice  Evattin Sydney on Friday last? 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied me with the following answer :  - 
The proceedings arose out of a prosecution under the Bankruptcy Act initiated by the Commonwealth. No question of intervention by the Commonwealth therefore arises. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What is the total number of conventions of the League of Nations International Labour Office which has been ratified by the Commonwealth Government? 
What were the conventions so ratified (if any) ? 

 Senator SIR GEORGE PEARCE.The Acting Prime Minister has supplied the following answers :  - 
Ten. 2. (i) Minimum age for admission of children for employment at sea, 1920. 
Unemployment indemnity in case of loss or foundering of the ship, 1920. 
Facilities for finding employment for seamen, 1920. 
Minimum ago for the admission of young persons to employment as trimmers and stokers. 1921. 
Compulsory medical examination of children and young persons employed at sea. 1921. 
Simplification of the inspection of emigrants on board ship, 1926. 
Seamen's articles of agreement,1926. 
Minimum wage fixing machinery, 1928. 
Marking of the weight on heavy packages transported by vessels, 1929. 
Forced' or compulsory labour. 1930. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Government given consideration to the desirableness of appointing a Commonwealth price fixing official, in order to protect those who will benefit under the recent basic wage increase granted by the Commonwealth 
Arbitration Court from threatened exploitation by a raising of prices of necessary commodities ? 
The Acting Prime Minister has supplied me with the following answer :  - 
The matter of price fixing is one which docs not fall within the province of the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What was last season's export quota of lamb and mutton? 
What amount was exported? 
What is the allocation for next season? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
No precise quota is fixed at the beginning of a season to govern the mutton andlamb exports for thatseason. From time to time during the season the Commonwealth Government consults with the British Government regarding supplies, having regard to the nature of the season. During the season October, 1936, to September, 1937, the United Kingdom imports from Australia will amount to approximately 1,900,000 cwts. As in all previous seasons,. Australia is in the position this season of being able to export the entire surplus production of mutton and lamb. It is anticipated that a similar position will exist during next season. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What was the price of wool -per bale, and per lb. - during the period the Japanese buyers were off the market? 
What was the price for the same months in the twoprevious years? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer: - 
The following were the prices of wool during the period July to December, 1930, when Japanese buyers were not competing in the Australian sales, together with similarinfor- mationfor the corresponding period of the preceding two years: - 

<graphic href="153332193706300_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
When will the conversion of the Petersham Telephone Exchange be completed? 
When is a commencement to bo made with the erection of the proposed Undercliffe Telephone Exchange and when is its completion expected? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The conversion of the Petersham area proper to automatic telephone working is expected to be completed in December next. 
The question of establishing a telephone exchange at Undercliffe will be considered in connexion with the programme of work for the financial year 1937-38. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is his department proceeding with the conversion of the telephone system of the City of Melbourne to an automatic system? 
If so, when will the conversion be completed? 
A portion of the city area of Melbourne is being converted to automatic working as a stage in the telephone development of the area. 
It is expected the new exchange will bo opened before the end of next year. 
[11.14].  -  I move - 
That the hill be now read a third time 
I called " not formal " to this Order of theDay so that I might be enabled to draw attention. to still further misrepresentation in the  Canberra Times  this morning in regard to  Senator Johnston's  proposed amendment. When I first raised this question of misrepresentation, by leave, I mentioned that, in the  Canberra Times  of that morning, I had been reported as follows: - 

 Senator Sir George Pearce, leader of the Government, in reply to  Senator Johnston,  explained that if the Commonwealth railway was brought under the same provisions as providedfor interstate railways, and the commission found that the Commonwealth railway was giving unfair preference or discrimination, they would have the anomaly, if  Senator Johnston's  amendment was carried, of the Attorney-General having to prosecute himself before the High Court to carry out the board's finding. For that reason, the Commonwealth railway had been excluded from the provisions. 
I went on to say - 
That is entirely contrary to what I did say, although the preliminary part of the report is correct. According to an uncorrected Hansard  proof  of my speech, I said - 
For that reason, Part IV. of this measure cannot be applied to the CommomveaJth Railways. I assured  Senator Johnston,  however, when he was speaking, that the Commonwealth Railways do come within the province of this bill, andI now give  Senator Allan  MacDonald and  Senator Marwick  the sameassurance.. 
I pointed out that they came under clause 18, from which I then quoted. 
The newspaper in question did not publish that correction, and I again raised the matter yesterday and called attention to the fact that when its first misrepresentation was corrected in the Senate, it took no notice of the correction. What makes this matter all the more strange is this : Yesterday evening a young gentleman called on me and said that he represented the  Canberra Times,  and, producducing a  Hansard  proof, asked me if that was the matter which, I complained, had been omitted from the  Canberra Times  report. I told him that it was. He then said that he had been instructed to express regret that the newspaper had not published the correction, and explained that its representative had been out of the press gallery when the matter was raised, but had arranged with another gentleman - a  Mr. Lennard  - to advise him if anything occurred that he. should know, Unfortunately, that gentleman had not brought the matter to his notice. He said, " We propose to put this correction in to-morrow's issue ". Judge of my astonishment when I read in to-day's issue the following alleged report of my correction :  - 
<para pgwide="yes">During the debate in the Senate on the Interstate Commission Bill, the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  was reported to have said that if the Commonwealth railways were brought under the provisions of the bill- not under the provisions of Part IV. at all-  and the commission found that the Commonwealth Railways were giving unfair preference, they would have the anomaly, if an amendment by  Senator Johnston  was carried, of the Attorney-General having to prosecute himself before the High Court to carry out the board's finding. 
This is how they put the error right - 

 Sir George Pearce actually said that Part14. of the measure could not be applied to the Commonwealth Railways, and he assured  Senator Johnston  that the Commonwealth Railways did not come under the province of the bill. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE The correction is exactly opposite to what I said. What I actually did was to assure Senators Johnston, Allan MacDonald and Marwick that the Commonwealth railways did come within the province of the bill and to draw their attention to clause 18. This latest occurrence almost makes one despair of getting a correct report. 
 I am surprised at these repeated, paltry and puny corrections, and the attacks that the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  makes against the press in relation to this bill. It is perfectly clear, of course, why he is making these attacks. He knows that some Western Australian members of the Senate were probably misled. He knows that the Commonwealth railways do not . come under Part 
of this bill, and are not subject to oversight from the Inter-State Commission, which, under this measure, is so rigidly to be applied to the State railways at the request of any association of traders, freighters or producers. There is very great objection in Western Australia to the exclusion of the Commonwealth railways, which so unfairly compete with the Western Australian railways and favour the eastern industries as against' the western primary and secondary industries. When the -Government introduced this bill, which is designed to create a commission which is to be the "eyes of Parliament", and which is to do so much good, the Government deliberately excluded the Commonwealth railways from Part IV., which will, however, apply to every State railway. That means that Western Australia alone of thefive mainland States is to have no protection at all from the Inter-State Commission against the unjust interstate competition, which is directed exclusively against our primary and secondary industries, whereas interstate trade and commerce between any of the other four mainland States isbrought directly under the purview of the Inter-State Commission because their interstate railways are owned by the State and not by the Commonwealth. That oversight can he exercised at the request of any small association or chamber of commerce, but Western Australia, in regard to its interstate trade and commerce, is unfairly excepted from that protection by this Government and in this measure. 
SenatorFoll.  -  No ; it is not. 
If the Minister wants to put the matter right, I invite him to recommit the bill and accept the amendments I moved on the subjects - amendments, which you,  Mr. President,  came down from your high position in the Chair to support so vigorously. I advise the Government to reconsider the matter and accept the advice which you,  Mr. President,  and I gave to it in order to put this matter right. At present, the eastern States annually send something like £10,000,000 worth of goods to Western Australia. 
The honorable senator knows them, or if he does not he may look them up. The products of the factories of the Eastern States - produce, potatoes and  onions -  are sent to Western Australia from the Eastern States whenever there is a glut on the eastern markets. 
No, they are only two small items. The eastern States send the products of their factories to Western Australia and use that State as. a dumping ground. 
Only to Kalgoorlie, which is the finest market in Australia. Eastern products are carried to the metropolitan and coastal markets by steamers charging low sea freights, and are sent to the Western Australian market by the East-west railway at freight rates which, I am advised, do little more than pay for axle grease. Those charges are absolutely unprofitable and do not obtain on any other railway in the Commonwealth. Yet the one railway which offends against the Constitution by charging differential and preferential railway freights to the detriment of western industries is the railway which this national Parliament refuses to bring under Part IV. of the bill, Part IV. being put there entirely to prevent unjust discriminatory railway freights for the protection of the other four mainland States of the Commonwealth. The whole attitude of the Minister in this matter is unjust to the State which he and I represent. I suggest that the reason why he is rushing forward day after day with these deliberate attacks on the press is because he is frightened that the real position caused by the defeat of my amendments might be clearly understood in Western Australia. In the paltry and puny attacks on the press made yesterday by the Leader of the Senate, the right honorable gentleman magnified things and made mountains out of molehills. Such attacks on our free institution, the press, are unworthy of the National Parliament. 
All sorts of things are unworthy of the  national Parliament, but I do not think that  Senator Johnston  has outlined them as I should if I were called upon to do so. The honorable senator has a tendency, I am afraid, to accuse his fellow senators, and even his fellow representatives from Western Australia, of acting against the interest? of that State. It has become so much a habit with him that I feel confident that it carries no weight either in this chamber or in that State. 
If I should be gone in a couple of months, as the honorable senator seems to think I will, there will be some consolation in the fact that I shall not have to listen so constantly to  Senator Johnston's  tale of grievances. It is well that it should be put on record again that the honorable senator, no doubt as the result of his incapacity to understand the bill, misrepresents the position. 
Because it is not necessary to do so. Clause 18(1) of the bill sets out: - 
The commission shall inquire into and report to the Governor-General upon (a) any anomalies, preferences, or discriminations alleged to exist in relation to interstate commerce. 

 Senator Johnston alleges that the freight rates on the Trans-Australian line discriminate against Western Australia. If they do they are specifically provided for in those words. There is no doubt that the Inter-State Commission is in this bill givenexpress power to deal with the complaint made by  Senator Johnston.  And there still remains section 99 of the Constitution - 
The Commonwealth shall not by any law or regulation of trade, commerce or revenue, give preference to one State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof. 
The honorable senator's complaint that  the Commonwealth railways by some act are giving preference to some States over another State is therefore specifically provided against by that section. The honorable senator does not seem to grasp the fact, which was pointed out by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  when this measure was first placed before the Senate, that any part of it must be read in conjunction with existing laws. The honorable senator has not grasped the fact that section 102 still remains in the Constitution, and it is not within the competence of the High Court or any other body to add to or detract from the Constitution. Its duty is only to interpret it. The prohibition against the Commonwealth making any law or regulation which favours one State against another is much more definite than any prohibition addressed- to. the States. Section 102 of the Constitution states :  - 
The Parliament may by any law with respect to trade or commerce forbid, as to railways, any preference or discrimination by any State or by any authority constituted under a State, if such preference or discrimination is undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State; due regard being had to the financial responsibilities incurred by any State in connection with the construction and maintenance of its railways. 
This is the part to which I invite the honorable senator to direct his attention :  - 
But no preference or discrimination shall, within the meaning of this section,' be taken to be undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State, unless so adjudged by the InterState Commission. 
The Inter-State. Commission mentioned in section 102 of the Constitution is the same Inter-State Commission as is proposed in the bill now under consideration. Therefore, the position will be, under this legislation, if and when it becomes law, that the Inter-State Commission may inquire as to whether or not any discrimination as between the States is unjust to any one State. The InterState Commission will then report to Parliament; not before that report is made can the Parliament act. But, if the commission finds that discrimination has been practised, this Parliament, which controls the Commonwealth railways, may intervene and set right the grievance. It should be realized, however, that Parliament cannot constitutionally intervene in such a matter under section 102 until the subject has been referred to, and reported upon, by the Inter-State Commission. It is almost increditable that the honorable senator  should fail to grasp the facts which are clearly set out in the Constitution and in clause 18 of thebill. But in view of the fact that he has persisted in putting  his  own views on record - whether for his own good or for the good of the country, I leave honorable senators to judge - I have thought it necessary to put on records the legal facts of the situation. 
I do not propose to discuss the provisions of the bill, or to cover any of the ground which has been traversed by  Senator E.  B. Johnston. I merely desire to say that as a representative of Western Australia, I have  not in  any way been misled by the statement of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- Can the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  inform me whether under any of the. headings con- tained in this part of the schedule, provision is made to arrest the encroachment upon the accommodation of Parliament House provided for honorable senators and honorable members for the purpose of effectively doing their business? I mentioned this matter in the course of my speech on the Address-in-Reply, and I do not desire to elaborate the situation, other than to stress the fact that congestion in every part of this building is becoming more and more intense, with the result that we are often unable to secure a room in which to write letters or converse in privacy. On account of various devices and subterfuges the members of this legislature are gradually being deprived of accommodation in the building and, as a consequence, arc unable properly to do their work. Theencroachment is apparently due to the fact that the Government is not pre pared to proceed with the proper development of this capital city by providing secretariats in which departmental officers can do their work in suitable and comfortable surroundings. I hope that the right honorable gentleman will heed my emphatic request in this connexion. 
[11.38].- I shall take note of the complaint of the Leader of the Opposition. The allotment of accommodation in Parliament House is controlled by the  President,  the  Speaker,  and the House Committee; but there is a close liaison between the officials of the Parliament and the Government. I shall ensure that the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition are brought under the notice of the. Government. 
I take this opportunity to place on record my generous appreciation of the splendid manner  in  which the Parliamentary Library is controlled. During my term as an honorable senator, I have on several occasions noticed a number of little innovations in the library which add to its usefulness and interest. The parliamentary librarian is to be complimented upon the manner in which he administers his department; in my opinion, this library is conducted as well as any of which I have knowledge. Apparently the librarian is an official who devotes a tremendous amount of thought to his job. Recently he was appointed to the Book Censorship Board, and I hope that his additional duties in this respect will not interfere with his administration of his department. I did not know whether he desired this latest appointment, or, for that matter, whether, owing to the trials and troubles that it brings, he deserves" it. It is a peculiar office owing to the fact that the appreciation of the public is seldom bestowed upon the censors. A good deal of unfortunate criticism is made in connexion with the censorship, which nevertheless, is a heavy responsibility upon those to whom it is entrusted. I consider that the parliamentary librarian will capably discharge his duties. 
I invite honorable senators to note the remarkable mass of literature which  comes to the Parliamentary Library from overseas. The principal source of supply is that wonderful country, the United States of America. I remind honorable senators that the library of Congress is the largest in the world, and the volumes on its shelves run into some millions; the annual additions are even larger than the actual store of books kept in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. The Government Printery of the United States of America is the largest of its kind in the world, and honorable senators will see some of its remarkable output in the basement of this building. At the present time, the Parliamentary Library receives considerable quantities of literature from the United States of America and the League of Nations, which are the two most up-to-date sources of literature in the English language. Unfortunately, owing to lack of funds, this literature cannot be tabulated or, if necessary, bound in volumes; I should like the Government to provide a sum of money to enable this work to be done. The literature emanating from the United States of America is up-to-date and dynamic in character, and is a compilation of what the world is producing in matters of legislation and administration. I have found the staff of the library to be ever courteous and obliging, and I like to place on record my appreciation of such attributes when I find them. 
I desire to supple- ment the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  in regard to the encroachment on the accommodation provided for honorable senators and honorable members in this building. Parliament House is becoming a real secretariat, and it is high time that the Government took steps to place another building at the disposal of those officials whose business is now largely conducted in this House. The House Committee should make a general inspection of the whole building for the purpose of ascertaining who are at present occupying many of the rooms to the exclusion of honorable senators and honorable members. On the Senate side it will be found' that comparatively little space has been left for the convenience of honorable senators themselves; in fact some of the rooms in question are occupied by private members of the House of Representatives. It is most unfair, and I hope that the House Committee, the  President  and  Mr. Speaker  will take the matter up. I also hope that every member of this Senate will stand behind the  President  in whateveraction he thinks it necessary to take. I suggest that, as the Labour party is now a united body once more, members of the Lang party should cease to occupy those rooms which were placed at their disposal, and the library should take them over again. At the present time, the library is occupying all the rooms along one side of the Senate. However, the members of the Lang party are not the only offenders. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Prime Minister's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £79,720. 
I desire to protest against the action of the Government in reducing the fertilizer subsidy from 15s. to 10s. a ton. This is a matter of vital importance to those throughout Australia who are engaged in a small way in primary production. I understand that requests for assistance under this provision became so numerous that the Government, desiring to keep expenditure down, reduced the amount of the subsidy. 
I know that, but we are considering a vote for the encouragement of plant industry, and that is the purpose of the' fertilizer subsidy. The reduction of this subsidy has been a hardship to many of our most reputable small farmers who have been battling for years against all sorts of difficulties while carrying on an industry which is of the greatest use to Australia. It must be obvious to honorable senators that these small farmers are the very men whom we should most encourage. We want small land-holders, preferably men who own their farms, and as many of them  as  we can get. It has been suggested that the Government might reasonably consider limiting the amount of assistancewhich any one person may receive by way of subsidy. I think the suggestion an admirable one, as it should then be possible to keep the subsidy at the original rate of . 15s. a ton. It has been found that -the -application of the right kind of fertilizer in suitable quantities has been most helpful. This season has been a most prolific one in Tasmania ; there has been not only an increase of quantity, but also an improvement of quality, which has never previously been excelled, and seldom equalled. That is largely due to the use of more fertilizer of the right type, a practice which has been made possible by the Commonwealth subsidy. Unfortunately, although production has increased, prices have been unusually low, with the result that the farmers have not been able to recover the cost of production. That consideration should induce the Government to restore the subsidy to the original 15s., and it would probably not be necessary to increase the aggregate expenditure if the amount receivable by any one person were limited. 
I do not suggest any limit; that is a matter for inquiry. 
-I point out that the item under discussion relates to scientific and industrial research, and the subject being discussed by the honorable senator does not come under that heading. 
SenatorPAYNE - I certainly approve of the proposed expenditure, because I recognize that the more we can do to encourage scientific investigation of these matters the better. 
Item 13 provides for the expenditure of£2,500on research and demonstration in connexionwith the apple and pear industry. Last year., the sum of£20,000 was set aside for the encouragement of this industry in Australia, and I should like to knowhow much of that amount has been expended, and what work has been done. If the Minister can furnish some details of the work carried out by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, it will be of interest to those engaged in the industry. It is impossible to over-em phasize the importance of this industry to Tasmania. It has enabled closer settlement to be carried out to a greater extent than would . be possible with any other industry. Is the department satisfied that the expenditure was justified? I believe that it is, but no information is available. 
I should like to see the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research formulate a scheme to enable the lay thinker and innovator to register his discoveries in science, or matters closely allied to it. 
I know that that is the objection usually raised, but surely it should be possible to sift the grain from the chaff. The history of science is filled with mistakes of scientific and academic men who have scorned the suggestions of intelligent and inquiring laymen. There were frequent examples of this during the war, and one that comes to my mind is the story told by  Sir Phillip  Gibbs of the young man who invented the incendiary bullet. He was only a bicycle mechanic, and for twelve months he kept bringing his invention under the notice of the War Office. When he was questioned regarding the principle of his invention, all he was able to say was, "'Dynamite, dynamite!" Ultimately, because of his persistence, the young man received a hearing, and nine months after his first approach to the War Office that body learned from him that if a small quantity of dynamite were placed on a certain part of a bullet, it would explode immediately it touched the lightest fabric, such as silk. That discovery solved the Zeppelin menace over England, and was one of the determining factors in the war. More than likely, the War Office authorities regarded him as a "crank", and, tapping their foreheads, declared that he was mad. The same thing occurred in connexion with the discovery of the army tank by de Mole. 
I hope that the honorable senator intends to connect his remarks with some item before the Chair. 
The honorable senator must connect his remarks with some item of expenditure in the bill. 
In the Government's slow march towards self-sufficiency and economic nationalism it undertook, some time ago, to make an. investigation into pelagic fishing, and to that end ordered a vessel to be constructed according to special plans imported from England. I should like to know if any of the money set aside for the purpose has yet been paid to the captain and crew of the vessel. 
I have received a number of complaints of poor radio reception from people liv ing in north-west Queensland.I should like to know what progress has-been made with radio research particularly in relation to the elimination of static andthe overcoming of blind spots. 
 The bill provides for an expenditure of £840, on "research in connexion with the gold-mining industry". Does this sum cover payment to prospectors along the lines adopted by Queensland ? 
Another item is " unforeseen and urgent investigations, £350," and under " miscellaneous " . a similar sum is set down. Last year I urged that some of this money should be expended on a scientific investigation of unemployment. In my opinion, an investigation along these lines is one of the most urgent matters confronting this country, and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research is the appropriate body to undertake the task. Better results would accrue from an investigation by a scientific body than are likely to be obtained from a committee consisting of a number of customs officers, trade union leaders, employers, and representatives of the Consumers' League, as was suggested by the Prime Minister some time ago. The scope of the activities of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research could well be broadened, and its officers shouldbe entrusted with investigations along the lines that I have suggested 
.- I wish to referto Item 3- "Entomology, £3,120", In New South Wales, and probably in theother States also, the grasshopper pest has. caused much damage to pastures whichsettlercan illafford to spare. There was quite a storm in New South Wales recently when it was suggested that certain birds , should be imported into Australia for sporting purposes. The outcry against the proposal had no effect on the State government, but I am glad that the Commonwealth Government realized the seriousness of the situation, and prevented the importation of birds which. . might become a menace to grain crops. Many remedies to deal with the grasshopper plague have been suggested, but none of the so-called remedies has proved effective, and the trouble is becoming more serious every year. Various pastures protection boards have advised the use of arsenical  sprays,  but little has been achieved by their use, partly because it is difficult to obtain proper co-operation by private landholders, and also because of the menace of large areas of Crown lands. Some years ago, when rabbits were a serious nuisance, land-holders resorted to poisoning; but they have since realized that they made a tragic mistake, because, in addition to rabbits, numbers of birds were destroyed, and the balance of nature being upset, insect pests and the blowfly scourge created new problems. Not only birds, but also a number of the natural enemies of the rabbits, such as native cats, tiger cats and iguanas were destroyed. Australia proceeded along sound lines when it introduced the Cactoblastis to cope with the prickly pear menace. The Cactoblastis, which is a natural enemy of the prickly pear, has saved from destruction millions of acres of land. I suggest that a world-wide inquiry be inaugurated by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. with a view to ascertaining what insectivorous birds could, with advantage, be brought to Australia to deal with the insect pests which are causing so much destruction. Steps should be taken along the lines suggested in order to restore the balance of nature which," through our ignorance and inexperience, has been destroyed. 
Provision is made in this proposed vote for the payment of £6,850, being a portion of the subsidy paid in connexion with the shipping and mail service to the Pacific Islands. Having recently visited Papua and the Mandated Territory of New Guinea, I direct the attention of the Government to the policy of the company controlling the service towards passengers, many o'f whom are tourists. I do not suggest that the ships are uncomfortable or that the accommodation provided is inadequate, but on the trip to the Mandated Territory cargo is given preference over passengers, who do not receive sufficient consideration. I am not making a personal complaint, because I was proceeding to Salamaua where I joined an aeroplane for "Wau. Many of the passengers on the ship, however, were travelling solely for pleasure, in order to see for the first time the tropical beauty and the native life of the islands. In these circumstances it is time that shipping companies displayed more consideration for the passengers, and if they did so the tourist traffic to the  islands  would develop tremendously. At present some of the vessels arrive at night, and amidst the general din caused by the cries of the natives and the working of winches the cargo is discharged to enable the ship to sail as early as possible, which sometimes is before daylight. This makes it impracticable for the passengers to do any sight-seeing, or even to get a night's rest. The natives make a tremendous noise while working, and it is undesirable to stop them, because, when they are most noisy they are most busy. I travelled by the  Macdhui,  which reached Rabaul, the capital of the Mandated Territory, on Saturday afternoon. As it is unusual to discharge vessels after midday on Saturdays, special permission was given to work that afternoon and on Sunday to enable the ship to leave  by  midday on Sunday. The passengers, many of whom were visiting New Guinea for the first time, had little or no opportunity to see Rabaul. Doubtless the master of the vessel was acting under instructions to get the ship away as quickly as possible. The passengers had a similar experience at Salamaua. I was informed that four passengers on the vessel, who were doing the round trip, were anxious to visit Wau to see the gold-fields and the beauty of the  coun-try  in the vicinity. The information concerning the movement of the ship was so meagre that on their return to Lae they found that the ship had left, and they were compelled to remain there five days. Generally, little consideration is extended to passengers, many of whom make a trip solely for pleasure. The vessels trading to New Guinea are always laden to the Plimsol] line, and consequently must be making huge profits. Some of the older vessels like the  Mon,toro  must have earned their weight in gold -during the time they have been on the run. Having regard to the fact that posters and advertisements are published to attract tourists to the Pacific Islands, it seems unreasonable that passengers should not be afforded an opportunity to see the beauties of .the Pacific, because the shipping companies devote so much attention to cargo. Perhaps when a further subsidy is being arranged, the Government will see if more consideration cannot be extended to passengers whose fares must contribute largely to the income of the company. I am sure that  Senator Payne,  who has made frequent visits to the Mandated Territory, will be able to support the complaint I have made in this respect. 
The point raised by  Senator Payne  concerning the fertilizers subsidy will be brought under the notice of the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  but I remind the honorable senator that no item in this bill has relation to the subsidy itself. In the opinion of i hose engaged in the production of apples and pears and the officers in charge of the work, money is being expended in connexion with cultural methods and the eradication of disease to the best possible advantage. The preservation of fruit and the production of qualities best suited for the overseas market are receiving the closest attention, and, generally speaking, the department is acquiring information which will be of great benefit to growers. The matter raised by  Senator Arkins  concerning the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research will receive the closest attention. The report of the Committee on Secondary Industries, of which  Sir George  Julius is  Chairman,  is now under consideration by a sub-committee of the Cabinet,' and the attitude of Cabinet will be declared at an early date. I assure  Senator Brown  that-the wages of -the crew of the fishing vessel mentioned are not included, as the crew has not yet been engaged. A young Australian captain, who has been selected is now undergoing a course of training in Canada in order to become familiar with the latest netting practice. The fishing vessel was to be delivered at the end of next month, but owing to a shortage of steel, the contractor - the Melbourne Harbour Trust - has been unable to give delivery as early as was expected. It is hoped that the vessel will be able to undergo its trial in October, but in the meanwhile  Dr. Thompson  is preparing a plan of operations based on a survey of the coast.  Senator Brown  also asked whether provision is made in the bill for a subsidy to mining prospectors. The money to be appropriated is to enable further  investigations to be made into the treatment of refractory ores. Already the gold-mining industry has benefited tremendously by the investigations conducted into the treatment of such ores. A Radio Research Board, consisting of Professor Laby, Professor Madden and other highly trained individuals has been appointed, and its work will undoubtedly be of great benefit. The shortcomings mentioned by the honorable senator will, I predict, soon be overcome. The grasshopper pest, of which  Senator Abbott  spoke, is a world-wide problem. Investigations have been made concerning the origin of this pest and the best methods to eradicate it. Apparently the gravel beds along the banks of watercourses are the breeding, or hatching, ground of the hordes of grasshoppers that eventually descend upon the paddocks of the graziers and wheat-fields of the fanners in various parts of the country. We shall never cope with this problem by poison attacks or kerosene burning. Such methods are suggestive of trying to sweep back the ocean with a broom. We must go to the root of the trouble. A scientist under the direction of  Dr. Nicholson  is now looking into the subject. The suggestion of the honorable member that consideration should be given to the releasing of birds of a suitable kind is rather interesting. I shall have it looked into if sufficient funds are made available for the purpose. 
[12.32].- The complaint of  Senator Foll  concerning the Pacific Islands shipping and mail services rather surprised me and I shall have inquiries made if the honorable gentleman wil] give me full particulars. The reason for my surprise is that when I was in New Guinea, I found similar cause for complaint. I took the matter up with Burns Philp and Company Limited, and gave specific instances that I had seen of unfair treatment of passengers in the interest of cargo handling. I was subsequently informed that the company had taken action to remove the cause for such complaints. 
If the honorable senator will give me full particulars that will justify me in making representations to the company, I shall certainly do so. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of External Affairs. 

 Proposed vote, £2,110. 
I take this opportunity to express my sincere pleasure at the work being done through this department. I appreciate particularly the information supplied by the department through the publications it makes available to honorable senators. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of the Treasury. 

 Proposed vote, £131,630. 
Yesterday, through the courtesy of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  certain information was made available to me concerning the reclassification of officers of the Public Service in various departments in the several States. I have not had time to examine this thoroughly in detail, but it appears to me that the officers of the Pensions Department have not been fairly treated. I notice that in Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia, the heads of the branches of that department are not only paid a lower salary than the heads of branches of other departments, hut are also listed for increases of salary so small as to be almost insulting. The same thing applies to the officers of the department in other States. How is it that such a state of affairs prevails? I do not wish to read all the details in the reply furnished to me but some of. the contrasts are remarkable. For instance, the head of the Pensions Branch in Victoria, who was formerly on a salary range of £708-£780, now has a range of £732- £804. The increase is only £24 a year. The corresponding officer in Queensland was on a salary range of £584-£612 and his remuneration has been increased to £608-£636. The increase is less than 10s. a week. In Western Australia the corresponding officer was formerly on  a  salary range of £600-£660 and his new range is £636-£708. The difference in this instance is somewhat greater, but still very small in comparison with the salary of the heads of branches of other departments. I notice, for example,  that  the PublicService Inspector in New South Wales, who formerly had  a  salary range of £950-£l,100, now has a range of £1,050-£1,200. Such an increase can be appreciated. Why are the increases to the officers of the Pensions Department so small? I wish it to be distinctly understood that I do not object to the increases. I desire higher, not lower, salaries to be paid. The more people we have who receive good wages and salaries the better I shall be pleased. I should like to know, though, why the officers of the Pensions Department have been selected for what seems to me to be mean if not offensive increments. 
[12.49]. - I do not think that Parliament is the place for a discussion of the classifications or the increases that have been provided for officers of the Public Service. The Public Service Board, which is responsible for the reclassification, does its work carefully and systematically. It is not simply a case of musical chairs. Because one officer goes up other officers do not necessarily doso. The board, through its inspectors and the machinery which it has evolved, makes a thorough examination of the work done by each department and by each officer. After making careful comparisons of the work the board assesses its relative value. The investigation which resulted in the reclassification to which the honorable senator has referred was done thoroughly and occupied several months, and the Government has accepted theboard's recommendations. I suggest to  Senator Collings  that it is far better to deal with the reclassification of the Public Service in this way than to try to deal with it in the Parliament. 
I assure the honorable senator that the board gives careful consideration to the nature of the work done and compares the responsibilities of the officers of different departments. The skill required and the relative efficiency are all brought under review. If the officers of the Pensions Department think that they have been unfairly treated they may apply for a reclassification. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The board acts impartially and, in the circumstances, Parliament would be unjustified in disturbing its findings. 
 I agree with the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition. Is it not a fact that the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs is receiving £4,000 a year? I believe he formerly received £5,000. 
What has that got to do with the item under discussion ? 
The honorable senator must be aware that the salary of the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs can have nothing to do with the salaries of officers of the Pensions Department. 
The honorable senator is definitely out of order. He must discuss the item before the Chair. 
Order ! That remark is offensive to the Chair and must be -withdrawn. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote, Attorney-General's Department, £32,520, agreed to. 
Department of the Interior. 

 Proposed vote, £73,750. 
 Can the Minister state what is the present position in regard  to  the Forestry School? Disquieting rumours are abroad to the effect that the school has been, or is about to be, closed down. Even if heroic measures have to be taken, I sincerely hope that the Government will do everything in its power to prevent such a thing happening. The Forestry School constitutes  one  of the most important phases of Commonwealth activity, not only in Canberra, but also generally. "Will  the  Minister tell us exactly what is the position in this regard? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [2.17].  -  I share the views just expressed by  Senator Collings.  I frequently discuss the Forestry School with the Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson)  and my recollection of the last conversation is that the outlook is much more hopeful than it was previously, and that one or two States, which previously had indicated they did not intend to send students to the school, had altered that decision; therefore the school is  to  be continued for the present. The Government itself is earnestly desirous that it shall be continued, as it believes that  the  school plays a very valuable part in  our  national economy. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of Defence. 

 Proposed vote, £950,900. 
 At the beginning of the depression the work of certain  officers  of the Defence Force was rationed and deductions were made from their pay. I should like to know whether those amounts have been restored. 
[2.20].  -  I cannot speak definitely on the matter, but my impression is that no restorations were made. The position of those officers, however, was somewhat different from that  of  public servants; the latter suffered a percentage reduction  of  salaries, whereas the military officers involved  were stood  off and received no pay during the period in which they did not work. In those circumstances the only restoration that could be made would be to pay these men for the period during which they were not working. Representations on the subject were made when I was Minister for Defence, and one of the objections raised by the department to this proposal was that at the time the officers were stood off they were informed that they were free to take other work during their idle periods. That, of course, was rather an empty offer, because work of any kind was scarce at that time. I shall have enquiries made in regard to this matter, and later supply the information asked for by the honorable senator. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Department of Trade and Customs, £99,970; Department of Health, £20,880; Department of Commerce, £71,420; Miscellaneous services, £104,710.; and War Services, £171,030- agreed to. 
Part II.  -  Business Undertakings. 

 Proposed vole. Commonwealth Railways, £81,700. 
.- Although the matter is not of great importance, I draw the attention of the ^1 mister to the inconvenience caused to passengers travelling from Western Australia on the east-west railway by reason of the fact that no provision is made on the train for the supply of alcoholic beverages. Travellers are unable to secure such liquors to drink with' their meals although such are obtainable on all other interstate trains with buffet cars. Consequently, many of them secure, a supply of liquor, for which they pay exorbitant prices at the local hotel, before the train leaves Kalgoorlie. This liquor is handed over to members of the train sta** who put it on ice, and later serve it as though it were being sold on the train. It would be a far more commonsense arrangement if the railway authorities catered for passengers desiring to purchase liquor on the train, even if only to be consumed at meal-time. 
 I should not prevent that from being done, because any one is entitled to what he likes provided he does not interfere with anybody else. I point out, further, that numerous overseas tourists who land at Perth travel by the transcontinental railway to the eastern States, and, not knowing that the train is " dry " do not take the precaution of securing their supplies beforehand at Kalgoorlie. Apart from considering the convenience of passengers in this respect, I suggest that my proposal should find favour with the railway authorities as a source of revenue. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia- Minister for External Affairs) [2.26].  -  I undertake to bring the remarks of the honorable senator to the notice of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson).  There was a time when liquor was sold on the transcontinental railway, but the practice was discontinued, when  Mr. O'Malley  was the Minister in control of Commonwealthrailways. One of the reasons for making the change was that this railway diner's from almost any other railway in that it does not pass through any populated areas and there is no policeman stationed along the line between Kalgoorlie and Port Augusta. I realize-thar people like the honorable senator would not abuse intoxicating liquors, hut, unfortunately, there - are some individuals who would, especially when travelling on holiday. If such an individual were- given facilities to indulge in intoxicatingliquor on the transcontinental railway,, and became objectionable, and even assaulted another passenger, he would for two days be beyond police discipline. That was one of the reasons why the saleof liquor on this train was discontinued. However, I am not aware that this is really a hardship, to travellers. It is pretty generally known that those whowant a glass of liquor with their meals can take it on to the train, and, I assurethe honorable senator, they need not pay exorbitant prices, because they can buy their supplies at Perth or Adelaide. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Postmaster-General's Department. 

 Proposed vole, £1,996,640. 
.  -  Reverting to a matter on which I spoke last night, I ask the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  whether revenue saved in respect of mail services in country districts could not be applied in providing other facilities, such as telephonic communication in those districts? 
I listened with interest to the observations of  Senator Cooper  on the first reading of this bill. He dealt with two matters, one of which I shall have to consider carefully. Tenders are called from time to time for the mail contracts to which he has referred to-day. It is true that a much, higher price is paid for the conveyance of mail matter now than some years ago, when this service was regarded merely as an adjunct to another business. The honorable senator has suggested that, because of the profits of the post office, extra money should be made available to provide services in the country, which would represent a loss to the department. The Post Office Act does not allow, and I am sure the Treasury would not permit, such an interesting method of bookkeeping to prevail in the department. It may sound harsh to those who know that money has been saved by the department, but we have to look at these matters hi the light of the law, the practice of the Treasury, and the opinions of the Auditor-General. I cannot hold out hope of the honorable senator's suggestion being complied with. 
 I direct the attention of the Postmaster-General to the abolition of travelling post offices in connexion with the railways. The matter is of interest to Tasmania, as well as to other States. Some years ago, when general retrenchment was being effected, the people of Tasmania were deprived of the great convenience of the travelling post office, the cost of which in the aggregate was small, by comparison with the benefit which it conferred on the community. Is it to be taken that this convenience has been permanently removed, or may we look forward to its restoration in the near future? It was enjoyed for many years, the result being that the mails from small post offices near the railway lines were given quick despatch; but, since this convenience has been taken away, mails have been delayed, in some cases for a whole day. I urge the Minister to give serious consideration to the early restoration of this valuable service, which has been of definite convenience to private and business people alike. 
Another matter which I have raised before is the position of unofficial postmasters and postmistresses, who, I contend, should participate in some way in the increase of the basic wage. The Postmaster-General said in reply to a question asked by me yesterday that the salaries were fixed at an amount in advance of the basic wage; and are based on the volume of business done, but the volume shown in the returns is not a true index to the value of the service rendered by them to the public. These officers work for long hours, for they frequently are called upon to transact business with the public long after the closingtime of ordinary post offices. If one of these officials desires a holiday, he has to procure a substitute approved by the department, and pay such person from his own allowance during his absence. It seems to me that an increase of salary should be made to the allowance postmasters and postmistresses on a percentage basis, having regard to the amount of postal business transacted by them. There are thousands of unofficial post offices, which render valuable service to the people; but, the majority of the men and women in charge of them are inadequately remunerated. 
A request has been made from time to time for the establishment of a telephone service along the new west coast road in Tasmania, which was built largely from the Federal Aid Roads Fund. For about 
SO  miles there is practically no population along the road, although it carries heavy traffic. I .urge the Minister to grant the request- from Tasmania foi- a telephone service from Queenstown following the route of the West Coast-road. 
A deputation of senators and other representatives from Tasmania waited on me yesterday with reference to this road. I am having the matter reviewed to see whether there is justification for the provision of the desired service. It has been represented to me that the number of people using the road has increased, and that settlement along it is growing. 
Honorable senators should bear in mind that the relations between unofficial postmasters and the department are different from those between other postal employees and the department. The former tender for their work, applications being invited from time to time on a fixed basis. Honorable senators who think that the department is doing a measure of injustice to these men should understand that when this basis was originally laid down by the department, the basic wage for this purpose was higher than that now in operation. An additional allowance was made on the ground of the skill required for this work, and the extra responsibility imposed on these officials. Speaking from memory, the allowance was from £24 to £26 a year. According to the time employed in the work and the quantity of postal matter dealt with, the rate is fixed. In the light of the representations made by the honorable senator, I shall further consider the matter to see whether any injustice is being done to these officers, but I point out that, in every case where a vacancy has arisen, the department has been besieged by local applicants for the position. The job is not regarded as a full-time one, but as incidental to the ordinary business of the postmaster. 
Here and there it may be. If the honorable senator knew the remuneration received, in cases where these postmasters are fully employed, he would see that it is, indeed, satisfactory to the recipients. 
I understand that the decision to abolish travelling post offices was come to before the depression. They were found to be a very expensive method of distributing mails. I asked what had been substituted for them, and was told that, upon their discontinuance some years ago, the mail changes between places previously served by them were now effected by means of a large mail bag with a number of receptacles in it bearing the names of particular towns, so that the correspondence could be immediately sorted where the volume of mail matter was light. The department is strongly opposed to the re-introduction of the travelling post office. My objective is to give service to the people, and, if on inquiry, it is found that any delay such as has been suggested is occurring, I shall see that action is taken to prevent it, either in the way recommended by  Senator Herbert  Hays, or by intensification of the large bag service. If the honorable senator brings instances of delay under my notice, privately, I shall see that steps are taken to prevent it. 
 I remind the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  that much inconvenience is caused to citizens of country towns who wish to communicate by letter with friends or business firms living in a town situated on a railway line 20 or 30 miles distant. A letter posted early in the morning is taken by the train to the city where it is sorted and returned the following morning to the addressee. Prior to the discontinuance of the travelling postal van on passenger trains, letters posted at country stations were sorted  en route,  and delivered to the addressee immediately following the arrival of the train. The discontinuance of the travelling post office is forcing country people to use the telephone or telegraph if they wish to communicate with friends or business people in nearby towns. They would therefore welcome the restoration of the postal van on passenger trains. Unofficial postmasters and postmistresses in many country towns complain that, ' although the volume of business which they transact is nearly sufficient to warrant the office being regarded as an official post office, their remuneration is totally inadequate. I hope that the Minister will consider favorably their request for an adjustment of salaries. 
.- Some time ago, I directed a question to the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  with reference to the unsatisfactory telephone service in Melbourne Central Exchange, which has not yet been converted to the automatic system. 
I suppose it would be too much to expect such a well-managed department to hurry . up. and improve the service. I, for my sins, or perhaps for my many virtues, happen to be a subscriber of' Central Exchange, Melbourne, and I  have  an intimate knowledge of the annoyance caused by cross-line conversations, wrong numbers, and delays. If the automatic system is not to be installed at an early date, the Minister might at least see if the existing service can be made more efficient. I am sure that if he would cause inquiries to be made he would learn how seriously the business community of Melbourne is inconvenienced by the service now given by the antiquated central exchange there. 
 About two years ago, I brought to the notice of the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J.  McLachlan) the need for restoring the travelling postal van on country passenger trains, about which  Senator Badman  has just spoken. L have never been able to ascertain why the vans were taken off the trains, but I presume that  it  was on the ground that the service was not paying. Its discontinuance has caused inconvenience to many people living in country districts, as no doubt the Postmaster-General himself is aware. Since he has invited us to bring specific instances of this inconvenience under his notice, I may state that a letter posted, at 9 a.m. at Owen, in South Australia, to an addressee  at  Hamley Bridge, about 17 miles distant by rail, is taken past Hamley Bridge by train to Adelaide where it is sorted, and returned to Hamley Bridge the following morning. It should be possible for the Postal Department to devise some system by which correspondence between adjacent country towns could be delivered on the day of posting. I hope that appropriate action will be taken to this end. 
I have received many complaints of delay in the delivery of correspondence between country towns and, although I know that some inconvenience is caused, I am advised that there is good reason for some of the apparent anomalies. I assure honorable senators that every specific complaint is examined and, if possible, rectified. From time to time deputations have waited upon me to complain of the delays in the delivery of correspondence between small country towns and the metropolitan area and, as a result, arrangements have been made for the despatch of mails by service motor cars which . ply between Adelaide and a number of country centres as far as Mannum on the Murray River, to the great convenience of the business community. 
I am sorry that  Senator Leckie  has some fault to find with the Melbourne Central Exchange, for I assure the honorable gentleman that, although I had complaints of other services, none has come to me with reference to the Central Exchange at Melbourne. However, I shall have inquiries made and see what can be done to improve the service. 
.- For some considerable time, residents of South Burnie have been endeavouring to persuade the department to instal a public -telephone for their use. I had occasion a little while ago 'to approach the Deputy-Director of Posts and Telegraphs, whom I always find a most courteous and sympathetic officer. South Burnie is a rapidly expanding portion of a very important town in the northwest of mv State. At least 200 homes are erected there. Many of them are a mile from the central post office. Huge works are being constructed there for the manufacture of paper pulp and it is anticipated that in twelve months or two years the number of houses in South Burnie will be doubled; yet there is no provision for a public telephone. The reason, I understand, is that the estimated revenue will not reach the sum required, namely, £16 a year. There is urgent need for a public telephone there, and I hope that the Minister will have inquiries made to see if the request can be granted. As the Postal Department is yielding a handsome revenue to the Government, the people living in South Burnie feel that they are entitled to some of the advantages which accrue to the community in general from the operations of the department. I hope that the Minister will get in touch with the local authorities and see if it is possible to overcome the present objection to the installation, of a public telephone at South Burnie. The cost of installation would be small, and the booth could be erected in a place where it would be under the protection of a local resident shopkeeper. 
I shall have the request made by  Senator Payne  examined by departmental experts. There is some provision in the regulations that new services, such as a public telephone, should show a stated minimum revenue. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Northern Territory, £41,210; Federal Capital Territory, £52,690 ; Papua, £7,300 ; Norfolk Island, £1,000; Refunds of Revenue, £350,000; Advance to the Treasurer, £1,500,000 - agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[3.4]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this bill is to appropriate out of the Consolidated Revenue fund, for the purposes of the relevant trust account known as the invalid and oldage pensions fund, a sum of £15,000,000 for invalid and old-age pensions. It is customary to ask Parliament to provide, from the Consolidated Revenue fund, the amount of approximately one year's expenditure to enable the fortnightly payments of these pensions to proceed without interruption. The last provision for this purpose was made in October of last year, when a sum of £12,000,000 was appropriated. The annual rate of expenditure on invalid and old-age pensions has been progressively increasing, and in the financial year 1936-37, which concludes to-day, it will be within a relatively few 'pounds of £14,000,000; in 1937-38 a larger sum will be required owing partly to the fact that there will be 27 pension pay. days in that year, and partly to the natural increase of the number of pensions over recent years. The total amount appropriated by Parliament for invalid and old-age pensions up to the present time is £195,250,000, and the actual expenditure to the 31st May of this year has been £190,910,000, which left as at that date a balance of £4,340,000 to meet future expenditure. Honorable senators will, therefore, see that by this appropriation ample provision is being made for the regular payment of the invalid and old-age pensions. The provisions of the measure are not connected with rates or conditions under which pensions are payable; but are concerned solely with the total amount of money required for this social service. Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I lay on the table reports and recommendations of the Tariff Board on the following subjects : - 
 by leave-  Honorable senators will remember that last night I referred to  Senator Dein  a case of particular hardship concerning an unemployed young man in New South Wales, and  Senator Dein  immediately undertook to get in touch with him with a view to having him placed in employment. By a strange coincidence I received from this young man to-day a telegram stating that after a fruitless search for work lasting many months he had been given a job, starting this morning, with a city firm. I am happy to be able to announce that, but I thank  Senator Dein  for his good intentions. 

 Sitting suspended from 3.10 to 8 p.m. 

.- In his speech on the Supply Bill yesterday,  Senator J.  V. MacDonald, referring to the pearl shell industry in Northern Australian waters, said - 
Apparently the encroachment of the Japanese has arisen (because of our neglect of those waters. From time to time we have heard complaints that Japanese have not only poached in our waters but have also come ashore and conducted themselves with our aboriginal women in a manner which we should not permit in any circumstances. These incidents are happening from year to year but the Government apparently is prepared more or less to ignore them. 
That is an extraordinary statement by an honorable senator who professes to keep np to date with happenings which concern Australia. I am amazed that, in these difficult days, an honorable senator should go out of his way to make provocative statements against the subjects of a country with which Australia desires to be on the most friendly terms. Had the honorable, senator kept up to date with his reading he would have known that the charges which he repeated in his speech were refuted in the press some time ago. The Government which I support is not unaware of the reports which have been circulated, nor has it been inactive in dealing with complaints regarding happenings in Northern Australian waters. As an earnest of its intentions the Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson)  proposes to leave tomorrow on a special mission to the Northern Territory. Unfortunately, the honorable senator's speech did not end with recriminations against the Government; he charged another nation with poaching in Australian waters and the crews of its vessels with crimes against aboriginal women. I have searched the files of various newspapers to ascertain what has been published in this connexion, and I now quote from the Melbourne  Herald,  of the 21st June - 
Captain  Haultain's  statement .to the Administrator that he was convinced Japanese employed on local pearling luggers, and not those from overseas, were largely responsible for interference with native women is borne out by the fact that on its way to  Baucant  Bay the  Larrakia  surprised several Darwin luggers in contact with aborigines. On one of these vessels he found an aboriginal girl no more than twelve years old. The crew of the lugger made an effort to smuggle the girl out of sight when the patrol boat approached. There had been apparently other native girls aboard, a number of aborigines were camped on shore nearby; the girls had been traded by their parents. A serious view is taken of the report by the Administrator, and it is almost certain to cause a hitch in preparations for .the establishment of watering bases in Arnhem Land. It is claimed that where local pearlers asked for the bases and pleaded that the regulations of the ordinance destroyed all their privileges, they gave an assurance that there would be no interference with the aborigines. 
The report is headed "Darwin, 21st June " and evidently was communicated to the  Herald  by telegraph. That report makes it clear that the offending luggers are registered in Australia. The Melbourne  Argus  of the same date contained the following paragraph on this subject :- 
The honorable senator condemned Japan. 
He did nothing of the kind. 
Apparently,  Senator Payne  has adopted the role of Leader of the Sena te, and he should be on the Min.isterial bench. He thinks it necessary to challenge the accuracy of statements I made yesterday. Obviously, the honorable senator did not hear the whole of my speech, and therefore has been guilty of serious misrepresentation. "When I mentioned this subject yesterday, I cited two reliable authorities, Captain Frank Hurley, who is well known in Australia- 
An article appeared in the Brisbane  Telegraph  on Monday of this week; therefore my information is up-to-date. 
He has. The other authority was  Mr. J.  Brand, the owner of a pearling lugger  at Thursday Island. Had the honorable senator read the whole of my speech, he would know that the information I gave was based on statements made by two reputable men. These gentlemen gave some startling facts which were new to me, and I suggested that the governmental authorities could well inquire into the position.  Senator Payne  may he right in saying that a majority of the luggers are owned by Australians, but. they are manned by Japanese crews or half-castes. As my remarks were based on paragraphs which appeared in recent issues of the Brisbane  Telegraph  and the Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  both reputable papers, the honorable senator must have heard my reference to Captain Hurley. 
The crews of pearling luggers owned and manned by Japanese have been guilty of interfering with native women. The statements made by the men I hav« mentioned are to the effect that 1,500 aliens are working on vessels in northern waters, a fact which I do not think is contained in any official document. There was no provocation to Japan in anything I said. 
If  Senator. Payne  and other honorable senators interested will read the whole of my speech on this subject, they will realize that I made a fair statement of the position. 
I regret that  Senator Payne  has shown such a lamentable lack of mental stability as to accuse  Senator J.  V. MacDonald of making statements which he did not make. 
I withdraw anything that is untrue.  Senator Payne  said that  Senator J.  V. MacDonald had made an attack on Japan - a friendly nation. It is the height of absurdity to suggest that to- direct attention to something that has been going on. for years is to make an attack upon Japan or any other nation. Japan does not condone the criminal action of any of its people. For several years articles and paragraphs have appeared in reputable Australian newspapers concerning the activities of certain nationals in the north. I have in my office an article which appeared in the Brisbane  Courier  a few months ago, which states that certain foreigners searching for pearls or trochus-shell in northern waters were met by aborigines, who allowed some of their  women to be taken off. Surely,  Senator Payne  would not suggest that the Brisbane  Courier,  which published that, statement, made a violent attack upon Japan! Similar statements have been published in  Smith's Weekly  and other newspapers, and the Commonwealth Government has been asked to protect the interests of native women. The honorable senator did not attack Japan, but merely directed mention to what is actually happening. Question resolved- in the affirmative. 
Has the Leader of the Senate seen the recent press report of the statementby the Premier of Queensland,  Mr. W.  Forgan Smith, that at the moment Australia's financial standing is very high in England and theunder-subscription of the last Commonwealth conversion loan had no significance, but was due solely to the disturbed state of Europe and the nervous condition of the money market? Does the ad vice received by the Government coincide with that statement? Further, is it a fact that just after the Commonwealth conversion loan was floated the London County Council launched a loan, a much larger percentage of which was left in the hands of the underwriters? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The advice received by the Government undoubtedly confirms the statement of the Premier of Queensland. 
 by leave  - I desire to direct the attention of the Senate to a report that appeared in the press yesterday, not only because it must have had a disturbing effect on the minds of honorable senators opposite, but also because it is untrue. The report in question states that there is grave discord in the ranks of the Labour party and that that discord was responsible for the adoption of stonewalling tactics. The impression conveyed to the public by this gross misrepresentation is that there is disunity in the ranks of the Labour party. I am very pleased to be able this morning to disabuse the minds of honorable senators opposite on that point. There is absolutely no disunity in the Labour party. 
That, I believe, is merely a philosophical observation. There is absolute unity. 
In this Parliament and generally throughout the country. Disunity was not the reason for the stonewalling tactics adopted. 
I am waiting for the honorable senator to indicate his personal relationship to the matter. 
Order ! The honorable senator must understand that he cannot exceed the bounds of the order of leave. He hasbeen given leave to make a statement for a specific reason, and if he exceeds it the responsibility for what follows must rest on him.  His  remarks will not be in order unless he show's that he has been personally misrepresented or misreported. 
In those cases the misrepresentation was personal. 
Regarding himself. 
So also could the other 35 members of the Senate. 
My duty would be to do so. The Standing Orders must be observed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What amount of moneyhas been expended by the Commonwealth Government in the State of Tasmania on the purchase, construction, preparation, and upkeep of - (a.) Aerodromes; 
Landing Grounds; 
Emergency Landing Grounds. 
What are the names of the above and the amount expended on each? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Acting Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers: - 

<graphic href="153332193707011_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

In  addition, approval has recently been given for expenditure of an additional amount of £2,500 at Wynyard aerodrome, control of which is being taken over bythe  Commonwealth. 
These figures include the cost of acquisition, surface preparation and buildings at Government areodromes, but do not include amount spent or to be spent in the provision of auxiliary services (wireless aids and night flying equipment) at Western Junction and Cambridge aerodromes. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister  upon notice - 
What action, if any, has been taken by the Government regarding a scheme or schemes for the introduction into Australia of migrants from  (a)  the United Kingdom: (b) any other countries? 
What negotiations, if any, have been conducted with this objective in view (a) with the United Kingdom; (b) with any other countries? 
Under what terms and under what authority are migrants now being admitted into Australia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE The Acting Prime Minister has supplied the following answers: - 
The question of the resumption of assisted migration from the United Kingdom was discussed informally at Adelaide in August. 1936, by a Sub-Committee of Commonwealth and State Ministers. Members of the SubCommittee then decided that definite proposals in writing should be submitted by the Commonwealth to the States for their consideration. 
The Prime Minister accordingly addressed a letter on 16th September, 1936, to the Premier of each State in regard to the matter. The following suggestions were embodied in the letter as being worthy of consideration, emphasis being laid on the fact that all applications for assisted passages must first be approved by the State in which the prospective migrant wouldreside - 
the extension of the grant of assisted passages of relatives of persons already in Australia; 
if it should be the desire of any State that female household workers and/or youths for farm work be introduced, the Commonwealth would arrange for their introduction ; and 
persons of British stock resident in the United Kingdom who would be in possession of - 
in the case of a married man, not less than £300 capital on. arrival in Australia, or, alternatively, a pension or other in- come of not less than £100 per annum ; and 
in the case of a single man, not less than £50 capital on arrival might be given the same benefits in respect of assisted passages as were contemplated in regard to nominated migrants. 
The Commonwealth Government considered the question in the light of the replies received from the State governments, and, in view of their divergent character, decided to deal with assisted migration on a State basis, i.e., if any State were desirous that assisted migration be resumed, either wholly or in part, the Commonwealth would arrange - 
to select in the United Kingdom, and 
to grant assisted passages to migrants whom any State wished to introduce. 
The present position is that the Commonwealth is prepared to provide, in conjunction with  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, assisted passages to the extent desired by the States. 
The grant of assisted passages is confined to such classes of migrants from the United Kingdom as are asked for by the States concerned. 
None. 
2.- 
See reply to No. 1 (a). The United Kingdom Government co-operates with the Commonwealth Government in the provision of assisted passages on a 50-50 basis to approved migrants from the United Kingdom. 
None. 
White British migrants are admitted into Australia if in sound health, of good character and in the possession of valid passports, provided also that there is no reason to believe in any individual case that the migrant, if admitted, is likely to become a charge upon the public. 
It is necessary for alien migrants to obtain Landing Permits before being admitted into Australia. Residents of Australia who wish to introduce alien dependent relatives, such as wives, minor children, &amp;c, are required to furnish guarantees for their maintenance. If the intending migrants are not close dependent relatives of persons already settled in the Commonwealth, the Department of the Interior requires to be satisfied that they can be absorbed in trades and occupations in Australia without detriment to local workers. In the case of non-dependent relatives, it is also the rule, if the issue of a Landing Permit is approved, to require the migrant to be in possession of £50 landing money if his maintenance has been guaranteed, or £200 if his maintenance has not been guaranteed by someone resident in Australia. 
[10.10].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the bill is to approve a new agreement with the States relating to federal aid roads and other works connected with transport, in place of the current Federal Aid Roads Agreement, which expired yesterday. Honorable senators may be assisted in the consideration of the new agreement if I refer briefly to the principal provisions of the original agreement. 
The original agreement took effect from the 1st July, 1926, and was designed to cover a period of ten years. It provided for the distribution of £2,000,000 per annum among the States, on the basis, approximately, of threefifths population and two-fifths area, with a special concession to Tasmania. Tasmania actually received a flat 5  per cent., the balance being allocated on the three-fifths - two-fifths basis mentioned. The States contributed £1,500,000, which was equivalent to 15s. for every £1 contributed by the Commonwealth, and in addition, made a 3 per cent. Sinking Fund payment on any loan moneys used by them for their contribution. The grant under the agreement was useable on the construction and reconstruction of main, trunk and arterial roads, but not on their maintenance, and the work had to he carried out to the satisfaction of the Minister for the Interior. Such, briefly, are the principal provisions of the original agreement. 
As from the 1st July, 1931, the agreement was revised and extended by six months from the 30th June, 1936, to the 31st December, 1936. The revised agreement provided that, instead of £2,000,000 per annum being paid to the States, payment should be made at the rate of 2½d. a gallon of customs duty and l½d. a gallon of excise duty. The contribution by the States of 15s. for each £1 contributed by the Commonwealth was repealed, and the States were relieved of the obligation to make any contribution. Further, the grant could be used for the construction and re-construction, repair and maintenance of any class of roads, and no provision was made for the oversight of work by the Commonwealth. 
For the convenience of both the Commonwealth and the States it was agreed last year to extend the period of the existing agreement to the 30th June, 1937. Up to and including to-day, the various agreements have, therefore, covered a total period of eleven years. 
The payments to all the States in each of the eleven years covered by agreements operating to the 30th June, 1937, are as follows: - 

<graphic href="153332193707011_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amounts paid to each State during the last four years have been as follows :  - 

<graphic href="153332193707011_3_1.jpg"></graphic>

I come now to the new agreement contained in the schedule to the bill, which is entitled the " Federal AidRoads and Works Agreement " and is to cover a period of ten years from the 1st July, 1937. The grants to the States from the petrol duties may be expended as under the old agreement on the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of any roads, and, in addition, on other works connected with transport. No contribution is required from the States. The agreement also provides for the reduction of the rate of sinking fund contribution on loan moneys used between 1926 and 1931 from 3 per cent, to  2½  per cent. 
As previously stated, payments to the States under the 1931 agreement were made at the rate of 2½d. a gallon of customs duty and lid. a gallon of excise duty. The new agreement provides for the payment of 3d. a gallon customs duty and 2d. a gallon excise duty. This increase, it is estimated, will increase the total grant to the States in 1937-38 by at least £600,000 per annum. In following years it will probably be worth more in proportion to the normal increase of the use of petrol. 
The rates of duty imposed on petrol and their allocation between the Commonwealth and States under this agreement will be as follows: - 

<graphic href="153332193707011_3_2.jpg"></graphic>

In respect of benzol the excise duty is  lid.  a gallon only. The whole of the present benzol duty is therefore already  payable to the States and no increase in respect of this item is possible. 
I have given sufficient information to enable honorable senators to appreciate the contents of the agreement, which should prove acceptable to the States and will, I feel sure, meet with the approval of honorable senators. 
-The Labour party will offer no opposition to this bill, under which additional assistance amounting to £600,000 will be given to the States from the proceeds of the petrol tax. I have no doubt that the State governments would have been happier had the whole of the proceeds of the tax been made available to them. A constant struggle is proceeding between the Commonwealth and State governments over finance, and some State governments are not yet able to balance their budgets. In fact they will not be able to do so until there is a re-adjustment of the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States. However, as the States will receive an additional £600,000 annually for the next ten years under this agreement, it has proved acceptable to them. 
The conditions of the new agreement are more liberal than those of the old. for it is provided that - 
All moneys paid to the State from the sums' provided under sub-clause (2) of clause 2 of this agreement shall be expended upon the construction, re-construction, maintenance or repair of roads or other works connected with transport as the State may think fit. 
That paragraph is so broad in its terms that it might be better to hand the money to the States without any stipulations at all. I understand that the present Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  ^argued on one occasion in a law case that the Commonwealth Government had no power to make stipulations in respect of moneys made available by it to the States, but apparently the system has been continued for so many years that it has been more or less accepted. The original agreement was much more rigid than that now before us, for it provided - 
For the purposes of this agreement the following classes of road shall bo deemed to he federal aid roads: - 
Main roads which open up and develop new country: 
Trunk roads between important towns ; and 
Arterial roads to carry the concentrated traffic from developmental, main, trunk, and other roads. 
It, was found that such restrictions were unworkable and the conditions were liberalised to cover the maintenance as well as the construction of roads. "Under the new agreement, the State governments will be permitted to use the money for works connected with transport. A good deal of bitterness was engendered in certain quarters by the earlier restrictions placed upon the use of the proceeds of the petrol tax. I have no doubt that all honorable senators have had letters addressed to them from a certain organization relating to the fishing industry. This aspect of the subject has inspired many questions in the House of Representatives with the object of securing the consent of the Government to the use of a portion of the proceeds of the tax to provide .extra facilities for those engaged in the fishing industry. 
Will the Leader of the Government inform me whether, in his opinion, a proportion of the proceeds of the petrol tax could be used, as desired by those engaged in the fishing industry, in the building of harbours and havens and the construction of beacons? 
And I take it that the construction of beacons would also come within the provisions of the agreement? 
That is perfectly clear to me, and I accept the right honorable gentleman's assurance on the point; but I have little doubt that  Senator Johnston,  like Shylock, will insist upon the bond. ' 
I am pleased that the conditions governing the expenditure of this money have been liberalized, so probably every honorable senator will be satisfied. 
-Then unity is achieved in the Government parties, as in the Labour party, in connexion with this measure. I felt sure that we should have some opposition to the bill from  Senator Johnston,  for, like the Irishman, he was born to oppose the Government. 
I notice that the  President  of the Rational Roads and Motorists' Association  (Mr. J.  C. "Watson), offered some criticism in a statement published in  the  Sydney Morning Herald  a few days ago. He said - 
In the last nine years the Commonwealth had collected £44,080,214 in the petrol tax, but had paid only £10,114,770 to the States, leaving £24,905,435 to be paid into the  Federal  Consolidated Revenue. " Virtually, therefore,"  Mr. Watson  said, " the Federal Government has taken approximately £25,000,000 of the motor-users' money for ordinary expenditure and will continue to take close on £5;000,000 of the motorists' money every year unless the sufferers can force a reduction of the impost. 
That is so, but the motorists were led to believe that all the money derived, from the tax would be expended on roads. I am glad that the submissions of those engaged in the fishing industry have been favorably considered, but sympathetic attention should be given to the views of aviators, farmers who use tractors, and also the State governments, which use considerable quantities of petrol in motor trains. I have no doubt that the opportunity will be taken by some State governments to apply part of their proportion of the proceeds of this tax to railway purposes. It will probably be a great help to them to be able to do so. 
The Opposition will support the bill, which I hope will have a speedy passage. 
1293 
.- While I do not hesitate to give my support to this measure because it has been unanimously approved by the Commonwealth and State governmental authorities, I wish to otter for the consideration of .the Government, certain comments dealing more or less with the future. I question whether it will be possible for the agreement to be continued in its present form without amendment for the full term of ten years. 
I compliment the authorities responsible for the drafting of the agreement upon one very sound feature of it - the economic planning which underlies it. Such planning is very adaptable to road work. I have advocated on more than one occasion in connexion with other activities of the Government, but particularly regarding the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, that trust funds should be established with sufficient backing to enable the adoption of a long range policy extending beyond the term of a particular government. Such important activities associated with our national economy should not be at the mercy of a particular government, but should be so arranged as to ensure continuity over a term of years. This agreement  will give  such continuity. As one who has had some practical experience of road construction - for I am connected with several road making and 'bridge building companies - I have been convinced of the wisdom of a long range policy in this regard. Honorable senators will readily appreciate that companies are able to accumulate efficient plants if assured of continuity of operations. This* in turn, reduces costs and makes for more effective work and substantial development. Any one connected with the main roads board of any State will readily admit that the boards have frequently been forced to work spasmodically, by what might be called catch-as.catch-cam methods, because they have not been assured of a regular supply of money. This means that costs are higher than they ought to be. The present agreement deserves the approval of honorable senators because it envisages a long range plan, which will allow the 
States to develop their roads at a minimum of cost. The extent of the road problem is rarely realized. In New South Wales nearly 250,000 motor vehicles are operating on 120,000 miles of roads - of which 15,000 miles are trunk or main roads; only 3,000 miles of roads of the total could strictly be classed as developmental. It will be seen, therefore, that it is essential for that State to be able to have a road development programme with assured finances for many years ahead. 
Yes, and the burden of the petrol tax could be relieved by the provision of better roads which would lead to the operation of an increased number of motor vehicles; thus, without reducing the aggregate collection, the rate of the tax could be lowered and so relieve the burden on the individual user. The provision of good roads is immediately followed by a tremendous development of motor traffic. That can be seen in the mounting revenues of the Commonwealth from the taxation of motorists. 
I admit that the railways are a problem, but at the moment I am not referring to that aspect. In- 1926-27, when the petrol tax was instituted, the collections amounted to £1,646,000, whereas it is estimated that collections in the year 1936-37 amounted to £8,500,000, which is a tremendous increase in the space of ten years. That increase is due not so much to the increase of the amount of the duty, as to the increased use of petrol in the larger number of motor vehicles which have been placed on the roads following the adoption of a vigorous roads development and improvement policy. Out of the £54,000,000 that the Commonwealth Government has collected from the petrol tax, only £24=,000,000 has been paid to the States. Whilst at the moment -I do not advocate that a greater contribution should be given to the States, I point out that the more money that the Commonwealth can give to the States for roads development purposes, the more possible will it be for the Commonwealth to reduce the actual rate of the tax, because, with an increased number of motor users, the tax itself will be spread over a wider field. 
I do not say that. There must be a reasonable degree of coordination between road transport and railways. We have that problem in the Riverina. Recently there have been many instances in which common-sense has been lacking. 
I foresee the time when it will be necessary to amend the terms of this arrangement. The agreement relates to funds to be raised by a tax upon petrol and other petroleum and shale products, which are specified. The term of the agreement is ten years, but, in my opinion unless the agreement is so amended as to embrace oil fuel, such as is used in the diesel engine, the expectations of revenue from the petrol tax will not be 'realized. What is going to happen if the consumption of petrol and allied products, instead of increasing, decreases? I concede that that question would appear to be in direct negation of what I said previously when urging a better road development policy, which would increase road transport, but an evolution is taking place in the heavier transport field; in other words, diesel engines, the fuel of which is tax free, are displacing petrol engines. To-day, there exists the ridiculous anomaly of two heavy trucks running side by side, one paying the tax, and the other not. Imagine two huge fully loaded trucks competing against each other, one being equipped with a diesel engine which uses tax-free oil fuel, and the other with an ordinary- petrol engine which uses a spirit upon which tax- is payable! Nothing can prevent the trend away from the petrol engine to the diesel engine, and, if the  Common  wealth Government is to maintain the petrol tax and disbursements  therefrom to the States, not at an increasing level, but at the same level as exists to-day, it must face this rising problem. It must be prepared, either to levy a tax on oil fuel, and thereby put it on a par with petrol, &amp;c, or reduce the tax on petrol. 
Yes. 
That is so. In New SouthWales to-day, there are 400 transport vehicles equipped with diesel engines. Not only does oil fuel pay no tax, but the consumption of it is approximately one-third less a mile than the consumption of petrol. That is to say that if two vehicles, one petrol-driven and the other diesel-driven, journeyed from Canberra to Albury, and the first vehicle used nine gallons of fuel, the second would use only six. A census of heavy transport vehicles of two-ton capacity or more, which was taken recently in Germany, showed that 82 per cent, of the lorries and other transport vehicles, including 'buses, are powered with diesel engines. Economic pressure will sooner or later result in the same state of affairs in Australia. The diesel engine is more efficient for several reasons other than the fact that it uses one-third less fuel than isused in a petrol engine. When this evolution does occur - I do not say that it will occur now, or, indeed, within two or three years, but it will occur sooner or later - the Commonwealth Government must take action to protect its revenue, and to allow the contributions to the States to be on an increasing scale. 
I support this bill, and also the ratification of the agreement with the more pleasure, since this is about the only federal law which gives any real recognition to the difficulties of governing a huge State like Western Australia, which has an area of one-third of the whole continent, with only one-sixth of the population of the Commonwealth. It is interesting to recall the history of the recognition of the principle of taking the area of States as well as their population into consideration in the distribution of this grant. This recognition we, in Western Australia, owe entirely to the broad vision of  Mr. S.  M. Bruce, one of our greatest statesmen. If I remember correctly, I was on the platform at the meeting at which  Mr. Bruce  put this proposal before the people of Western Australia for the first time. The position has altered a little to-day, because although the Commonwealth Government is still collecting the tax of 7¼d. a. gallon on petrol it is now giving 3d. a gallon to the States for roads and transport instead of 2½d. as in the past. I am glad, too, that the Commonwealth Government has decided that the extra id., yielding this year about £600,000, and in succeeding years probably more, can be devoted by the States to all work in connexion with transport. That means aeroplanes, aerodromes and approaches to fisheries, and probably other users of stationary engines, lighting plants and other petrol consuming units, will also benefit, as the State government will have power to assist those persons who contribute so heavily to the petrol tax. I would have had no objection to the provision in the understanding reached at the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers in August last that forestry also could have been assisted from this fund. I believe that the less limitations we place on the State governments as to the expending of any moneys allotted to them, the better. I say that, irrespective of the political outlook of the State government for the time being in office. Complaints have been made in some States, but taking the long view they can more easily be remedied by the electors than can federal errors. When the Federal Aid Roads Agreement was first entered into, the Federal Government prescribed the conditions under which the money paid to the States could be expended ; and because those conditions were not always applicable to the. needs of the States much of the money was wasted. In his policy speech before the last election the Leader of the Country party  (Dr. Earle Page)  advocated that the amount to be paid to the States from the petrol tax should be doubled. He suggested that the States, instead of being paid 2½d. for every gallon of petrol used, should be given 5d. I am sorry that that policy was not acceptable to the Government, but I am glad that an additional £600,000 is to be paid to the States. 
Although the petrol tax was levied ostensibly for the improvement of roads a large proportion of the money derived from it is still used to augment the general revenue of the Commonwealth. Even with the increased benefits provided by this agreement, the States will receive only 3d. a gallon, whilst the Commonwealth will receive 4£d. a gallon from petrol tax and primage. I should like to see the whole of the proceeds of the petrol tax paid over to the State governments; failing that, the burden which now falls on motorists and transport services generally should be reduced. In view of the huge revenues of the Commonwealth and its succession of surpluses the amount that goes into Commonwealth general revenue is altogether too great. I do not desire that the tax be reduced at the expense of the States, but I hope that after this agreement has been ratified the tax on petrol will be reduced substantially. Today it is an unjust burden on transport. It is my experience that money handed to the State governments for the improvement of roads has produced far better results than the much larger amounts retained for federal purposes. One has only to travel along .the roads in any part of Australia to realize the great improvements that have taken place as the result of the expenditure of money made available to the States under the Federal Aid Roads Agreement. 
I shall not oppose the bill, but I point out that one phase of the Federal Aid Roads Agreement appears to have been lost sight of. For many years senators from Western Australia have complained of the ill effects of federation on that State, and have contended that nearly all the benefits of federation have been enjoyed by the manufacturing States in the eastern portion of the continent. This agreement, however, proves the converse because, since the distribution of the money is to be made on the basis of three-fifths population and two-fifths area, Victoria will contribute about £500,000 a year towards the construc tion and maintenance of roads in the other States. 
No; but I am amazed that there has been no expression of gratitude on the part of the recipients. I do not know how long Victoria can continue to act so generously towards the other States. Only because the people of Victoria have an all-Australian outlook are they reconciled to this agreement, which requires their small State to assist the poorer and larger States to provide good roads. I am not convinced that the distribution is equitable. It is a moot question whether Victorian motorists and other users of petrol should contribute money for expenditure on roads, in distant parts of  the  Commonwealth. One would at least expect the people of those other States to be grateful to Victoria. I imagine that New South Wales, because of its large area and big population, will break about even; but Victoria certainly will pay away more than it receives. In proportion to its size, Victoria has not so many bad roads as have some of the other States, but that is not to say that there are no bad roads in Victoria. Its better roads generally are due to thar State having made an earlier start with a policy of road improvement. We hear much of the industrial States living on the primary producing States, almost as though the former were parasites ; but wo hear little of contributions by the industrial States to the others. I bring this e matter forward so that the public may know that Victoria is willing to follow an all-Australian policy even at some cost to itself. 
I hasten to assure  Senator Leckie  that there arc many people in Western Australia who will appreciate the passing of this measure. 1 myself am pleased that representatives of the States and the Commonwealth have been able to reach agreement, as a result of which this measure has been made possible. In common with South Australia and Queensland, Western Australia will benefit greatly from the extension of the Federal Aid Roads 
Agreement for a further ten years. Senators from Western Australia appreciate the fact that the industrial States of Victoria and New South Wales have agreed that the money shall be distributed on a basis which takes into consideration area as well as population. Money made available to the States under the agreement has not always been wisely expended. In 1927, just prior to the first election after the Federal Aid Roads Agreement became operative, it was a common sight to see hordes of itinerant workers moving from one portion of the State to another but, however, carrying no tools for the construction of roads. One cartoonist depicted them with fountain pens over their shoulders and electoral enrolment cards in their hands. The main purpose of the Government of (he day in moving them from place to place was to ensure that they would he in certain electorates 31 clear days before the closing date for nominations.  Senator Johnston  may call that a faildistribution of the funds by State governments, but I have another name for it. That election campaign was not singular in that respect, for the same tiling has happened during other election campaigns. In my opinion, it is a wrongprinciple for a taxing authority to hand over its revenues to be expended by another authority. Unfortunately, the direct disbursement of thi.3 money by the Commonwealth in the several States would mean the creation of a huge Commonwealth organization in addition to existing State organizations. The time is not yet ripe for the taxing authority to.be also the spending authority. However, I hope that the State governments will not again try to manipulate these funds as some of them have done in the past. 
We hear a great deal about the heavy burden placed on motorists by the Commonwealth, but very little of the taxes levied on them by the States. Every criticism relating to the taxation of the motor industry is an attack on the Commonwealth, not on the States. On every petrol bowser, from one end of Australia to the other, the disc which notifies the price of petrol announces that it includes 7^d. Commonwealth petrol tax. Such propaganda has the effect of making the ordinary individual who has the misfortune to own a motor car believe that the Commonwealth Government is the bugbear. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Not in comparison with the volume of words which is hurled at the Commonwealth Government in connexion with the imposition of the petrol tax. Having been a motorist for many years, I am aware that the odium which is incurred by the Commonwealth Government on this account is out of all proportion to the rate of the levy. I say that who am not a believer in the imposition of a high petrol tax. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.In Western Australia the registration fee for an ordinary motor car ranges between £9 and £10 per annum. The average motorist who uses only six or eight gallons of petrol a week would not pay in the course of a year, any more by way of petrol tax than the annual registration charge, but emphatic objection is seldom raised against the latter imposition which is levied by the State governments.  Senator Johnston  heaped lavish praises upon the States for their wonderful administration of Federal Aid Roads funds; in the meantime they wear a satisfied smirk, because they obtain the money and avoid the odium of collecting it by taxation. Nevertheless their high fees are amongst the factors which give rise to the agitation by motorists against excessive taxes. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.In order to do so, such a person would have to drive his car 24 hours of the clay. I have travelled long mileages in Western Australia but I have never paid so much as £50 per annum in petrol tax. Some attention should be drawn to the high rate of tax -which is imposed by the State authorities on motorists in order that, by way of welcome change, the Commonwealth Government may be given a little kudos for the expenditure of money on roads. Up to date, however, it has received nothing but knocks, and it will continue to get them while' the present system under which the taxing authority hands over the funds to theStates, is maintained. If that system continues we cannot hope to cure the existing anomalies  without the creation of a costly federal spending authority in each of the States, and the population of Australia would not warrant the expense of that. I hope that the State authorities will spend the proceeds from the petrol tax in the most advantageous direction. If it be possible to reduce this tax in the near future, the States should also be requested to make a reduction of the charges which they levy upon the motoring community. It is my earnest desire that in the next budget the motorists will be granted some relief from the heavy burden of taxation ; because everybody seems to delight in taking a pot-shot at them. A reduction of the petrol tax should be made at the first appropriate opportunity, but I suggest that the Commonwealth Government should make such a reduction conditional upon an equal reduction of registration fees being made by the State authorities. If the States cannot be in that way prevailed upon to give the motorists relief, this already excessivelytaxed section will never obtain relief. The States should also be compelled to share some of the odium caused by the imposition of the petrol tax; all the criticism in this respect should not be borne by the Commonwealth Government. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [11.5] -  in reply.  - In referring to the probable increase of the use of oil fuel in road vehicles, 

 Senator Hardy raised a matter of considerable interest. This subject has given some concern to the Commonwealth Government in connexion with this matter, and I have obtained some information which should be of interest to honorable senators. An endeavour has been made to estimate the growth of the use of oil fuel in road vehicles, and the Government has been able to secure information relating to the position in all States, with the exception of Queensland. The following table indicates the increased use of oil fuel during the last 2£ years: - 
Information in respect of the number of road vehicles using oil fuel has also been secured. The details are shown in the following table: - 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is so. On an average, 22 gallons of oil fuel will replace 50 gallons of petrol. On this basis, if, for the first six months ended the 31st December last, 977,000 gallons of imported petrol dutiable at 7d. a gallon had been used instead of the 429,848 gallons of oil fuel the revenue would have benefited to the amount of £28,500. The most recent development was the announcement yesterday of the advent of a British 2-2½-ton and 3-4- ton truck with a diesel engine which will be sold in Australia for less than £500; that is less than half of the cost of a similar vehicle hitherto. The company which is marketing the truck claims that on an annual running distance of 30,000 miles the saving of fuel costs with a diesel truck will be approximately £110. The Department of Trade and Customs has had the matter of the displacement of petrol by crude oil, owing to the increasing use of diesel engines for road transport, constantly before it for some years, and the subject will continue to receive consideration. 
In view of what are sometimes extravagant statements made in regard to the. amount of revenue derived by the Commonwealth from petrol duties, I desire to place on record the following comparison of the amounts collected annually from this source since 1926, with the amounts actually paid to the States during those years: - 

<graphic href="153332193707011_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

The balance, which is the amount of petrol tax retained for the general revenue purposes of the Commonwealth, is shown as follows- 

<graphic href="153332193707011_11_1.jpg"></graphic>

Petrol duties are levied for two purposes : First as a general revenue tax for Commonwealth purposes, and secondly to provide moneys for roads and other transport purposes of the States. In imposing this tax the Commonwealth is not singular. The Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of New Zealand impose a tax on petrol for general revenue purposes, and I am informed that the tax in New Zealand is about10d. a gallon. Although I have not specific information in regard to the petrol tax in the United Kingdom, I can assure honorable senators that it is heavy. 
An Honorable  Senator. -  Hear, hear ! 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That  the bill  be now read a second time. 
The bill is to amend section 5 of the Primary Producers Relief Act 1935-36, which relates entirely to the closing date for the receipt of applications for the subsidy of 15s. a ton, payable to primary producers in respect of artificial manures used during the year ended the 30th June. 1 936, in the production of primary products other than wheat. A condition of the payment of the subsidy is that the primary producer has, upon application lodged by him with the secretary of the Department of Commerce on or before the 31st day of December, 1936, obtained a certificate in writing from the secretary of that department that the primary producer has furnished satisfactory evidence that he has used the quantity of artificial manure stated in the certificate. The point involved is that a number of applications signed by the primary producer on or before the 31st December were not, in fact, received within the time specified in the act. Although applications were posted within the time prescribed in the section, they were not received by the Department of Commerce. Apparently, a number of persons relied upon the three days' grace which is common in commercial transactions. The Government, having considered the position, has decided to amend the act, and the department will now accept the applications, the declarations in respect of which were completed on or before the 31st December, 1936, hut which were actually received by the department after that date. Some have inquired as to what became of their applications, and a search of the records has disclosed that such applications were not received by the department. If such applications were forwarded - there were quite a number - they must have gone astray. Applications pass through a number of hands and some may have been lost. This class of person is also being met by the insertion of a provision that, if the Minister is satisfied that an application was signed before the 31st clay of December, it shall be accepted. In all, about 420 claims will be affected by the bill, and the amount of the subsidy involved will be approximately £1,350. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 

 Sitting suspended from 11.20 a.m. to 4.10 p.m. 

I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a short bill, relating only to rules of court made by the justices of the High 
Court to regulate proceedings in that court. As honorable senators are no doubt aware, the High Court has a general jurisdiction, derived partly from the Constitution and partly from the Judiciary Act. The High Court Procedure Act of 1903 contained a comprehensive set of rules designed to regulate this general jurisdiction. From time to time, however, the High Court has been invested with jurisdiction over particular matters arising out of Commonwealth acts. As honorable gentlemen will know, many Commonwealth acts contain provisions vesting a rule-making power in some body. Thus, provision is made in the various taxing acts for appeals to the High Court. Some of the acts conferring special jurisdiction on the High Court empower the justices to make rules of court in relation to that jurisdiction, and in some instances provide for the tabling and disallowance of rules. 
The provisions as to the tabling -ind disallowance are not, however, uniform with the corresponding provisions in the High Court Procedure Act and the Judiciary Act. Rules made under either of those acts are to be tabled in both Houses of Parliament within 40 days of their being made, if Parliament is then sitting, or, if not, then within 4)0 days of the next meeting of Parliament. In the more recent acts conferring special jurisdiction, the provisions relating to tabling are similar to those governing the tabling of regulations. The original provisions as to the tabling of regulations were somewhat similar to those at present in force with regard to rules under the High Court Procedure Act and the Judiciary Act, but experience proved that those original provisions bristled with difficulties and, in consequence, the law was amended in the form now contained in section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1904-1934. It seems desirable that the legal position with regard to the tabling and disallowance of rules of court should be brought into line with that respecting regulations, and one of the amendments contained in the present bill has that object in view. 
Another amendment authorizes the justices to make, under the Judiciary Act alone, instead of under several acts as heretofore, rules relating to all phases of the jurisdiction of the High Court. In consequence of this amendment, the provisions of several other acts as to the making of rules will be no longer necessary. Accordingly, clause 4 and the schedule provide for the repeal of those provisions. Briefly, the effect of clauses 2 and 4 and the schedule of the bill is that rules of court governing the jurisdiction of the High Court in all its aspects will, in future, be made under one act only - the Judiciary Act - and not under the Judiciary Act and the High Court Procedure Act, or under each of the several acts conferring special jurisdiction. 
In commending the bill to honorable senators, I desire to point out that it is of a procedural nature only, and does not give to the justices of the High. Court any greater rule-making power than that conferred upon them under existing law. It is desired by the court that the bill be passed as speedily, as possible. 
Question resolved- in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 I move - 
That the  bill  be now read a second  time. 
This is a measure of the utmost simplicity, but as it has been put to me, its force consists in that it stands for one of the greatest of human pursuits - the pursuit of knowledge. Its title declares its purpose. 
It is a bill to enable and to regularizethe expenditure of money upon organized research into medical problems. It provides simply for the establishment of a fund into which shall be paid money received from two sources, viz.. the money appropriated by Parliament from year to year, and money received from private donations, or bequests, or other external sources. 
The fund will be administered by the Minister on the advice of the National Health and Medical Research Council, and the money shall' be expended in the assistance of Commonwealth or State departments, universities, institutions and persons engaged in medical research, as well as for the training of persons in medical research. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council is the most representative and 'authoritative body which could have been brought together in Australia. The Commonwealth Director-General of Health is chairman, and two other officers of the Commonwealth Department of Health are members. The council includes also the Chief Medical Officer of each State, a nominee of the College of Surgeons, va nominee of the Association of Physicians, and a nominee of the British Medical Association. The four universities having medical schools jointly nominated one representative, and the Minister has appointed a prominent layman and a prominent laywoman. The council has already submitted a scheme for research which is excellently adapted to Australian conditions. The first report of the council refers to this scheme, in the carrying out of which the council does not consider that any new institutions or buildings are at present necessary. Consequently the money available, under the fund established by the bill will be devoted to the encouragement of research workers in Australia, and to the training of young medical graduates and other science, graduates in various aspects of medical research. 
While it has been' possible in the past for' Australian research workers to make contributions to research of considerable value and magnitude, these have been spasmodic, and our unfortunate experience has been that a large number of young brilliant medical graduates who went abroad to pursue medical research, have become so distinguished for their work in laboratories and institutions there that they have accepted financial inducements to remain overseas. Thus their services have been permanently lost to Australia. The sequence of these has been continuous and their numbers have been considerable. 
Our design under this new system to be instituted following the passage of this bill, is to offer such encouragement as will induce the majority of these workers to remain in Australia. I need only mention that, following Lord Nuffield's magnificent gift of over £1,000,000 to the University of Oxford for the purpose of establishing new avenues of research at that great university, two of the most prominent positions on the inaugural staff have been allotted - one to a New Zealander and one to an Australian. 
I have said that Australia can point to a record of material contributions to knowledge in the past. Reference may be "made to some of these. The control of miner's, phthisis has been largely built up on work done in Australia. The knowledge relating to hydatids comes almost exclusively from Australia. Contributions to the surgery of goitre have advanced the treatment of this disease very greatly during the last twenty years. Contributions of the late  Dr. Harris  to genito-urinary surgery are recognized all over the world. The work done at the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute on snake venoms is now recognized in all countries as classical. This list might be extended, but it is more important to invite attention to the fact that some of our very serious and pressing problems have not yet been touched. With all the medical knowledge available to us, we cannot be sure that we hold any golden key in relation to the great variety of diseases which fill our hospitals. We must have, on the one hand, better knowledge of the treatment of the early conditions of ill health, enabling us to arrest them before they proceed so far that hospital treatment becomes necessary; and, on the other hand, we must have the dissemination of knowledge of simple laws, of health so that the people themselves will render to their medical services that cooperation between patient and doctor without which treatment is largely useless. It may not seem to the observer that a close study of the enzymes and fermentation agents stored up in the sweetbread of the ox has much relation to practical problems, but, as was pointed out in the House of Representatives; it was from much long and patient work in this field that insulin was discovered. A prolonged and difficult research into the chemical substance produced by various methods of treatment of rare chemicals derived from coal tar may seem to be a chemical problem very remote from problems of human disease; yet it was by this route that we secured modern treatment of syphilis, of sleeping sickness and of malaria, and by the same route we are gradually approaching real knowledge in respect of the production of. cancer. The bill, we hope, will permit of the establishment of a concerted programme of research which will include three main phases: social research, clinical research, and laboratory research. Gradually, we hope to build up such a progressive accumulation of knowledge as will have important benefits for the Australian people. The necessary correlation between these various aspects of research work will be ensured by the composition of the body which will have the supervision of the programme - the National Health and Medical Research Council - the personnel of which I have already described. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
The Opposition will not oppose this bill to establish a medical research endowment fund. The Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  made  no  reference  to the  amount of money which will be required for that fund. 
We are to establish the fund ; the obtaining of the  money  will be a subsequent stage. I suppose that the money will be well spent ; but the thought crossed my mind that it might be unnecessary to establish a new organization if the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, under the control of the Minister in change of development, could undertake such work. 
But could it not do so? On several occasions, I have spoken about the work of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and the practicability of extending its operations to the human being. I fail to understand why it should be necessary to create a medical research council when the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research might well add medical research to its other operations. 
I learned that fact from the Assistant Minister's speech a few minutes ago. The Medical Research Council will investigate the cause and cure of diseases of the human body. I certainly do not object to the establishment of this organization, although it appears to me in some respects to duplicate the functions of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. The Assistant Minister intimated that there will be a certain co-ordination of the research work that is being carried out by different bodies. Such co-ordination and organization will he a definite step in the right direction. Throughout Australia at the present time, investigators are undertaking research work independently of one another; but I assume that the. Medical Research Council will endeavour to correlate their efforts. . 
I welcome that assurance, because the Labour . party believes in not only economic organization, but also scientific organization in every walk of life. I gleaned from the House of Representatives that a fund of £30,000 will be necessary in order to enable the council to commence its operations; in my opinion such an amount will be little enough. When we are prepared to spend £8,000,000 on the defence of Australia, the sum of £30,000 for medical research looks very insignificant, and I hope that it will be increased at the first opportunity. An urgent need exists for medical research for disease is rampant in Australia. Much of the suffering, the Opposition contends, is due to the lack of balance in  the economic system, which brings about poverty. If poverty were abolished, a good deal of disease would also disappear. 
Possibly so; but I have in mind the experience of the family of a personal friend who fell on evil times. Both his wife and child contracted a skin disease, and a medical man, whom they consulted in a poorer part of Sydney, gave them a letter of recommendation to enable them to obtain additional relief payments with which to purchase extra supplies of milk and vegetables. After they had enjoyed these extra rations for six months, the woman and child were restored to their former health; the extra relief was withdrawn and both suffered a recurrence of the skin complaint. In conversation with this woman, I was informed that large numbers of women and children in the district in which she lived had contracted the skin affection, which was entirely due to lack of proper food. According to the latest census figures, 2,200,000 Australian breadwinners receive less than £3 a week, and, upon these low wages, they are obliged to provide for the upkeep of over 1,000,000 children. I do not anticipate that this section will come prominently within the purview of the Medical Council. The Minister for Health has stated that 40 per cent, of Australian children are suffering from malnutrition. 
Is not the honorable senator prepared to accept the statement of the Minister for Health? 
- Extremes of poverty and wealth bring about certain disabilities and diseases. I admit that many children are suffering from malnutrition because of the ignorance of their parents as to what is a proper diet. But no honorable senator, and no intelligent man who has studied the facts, can deny that thousands of children, especially in the larger cities, are suffering from various diseases due directly to the inadequacy of nourishing food. Undoubtedly, there is ample opportunity for the investigation of the Research Council into such matters. Recently, I read a book,  Man the. Unknown,  by  Dr. Carrel.  I recommend it to the honorable senators, because the author certainly gives us food for thought, and shows that Ave  have much to learn about the human body. Even in regard to subjects about which we believe we are well-informed,  Dr. Carrel  asserts that our knowledge is meagre indeed. 
Yes. We, and other nations also, have been so bent on making profits that man himself has been forgotten. One of the most humane endeavours in the future will be to discover improved methods for the development of the human being mentally and physically. We should scrap some of our machines, if by so doing we could improve the mentality and health of men, women and children.  Dr. Carrel  states that there have been great gains of health during the last century. While granting that most of the diseases of bacterial origin have been eliminated, he has written : - 
The years of life which we have gained by the suppression of diphtheria, small-pox and typhoid, are paid for by the long-sufferings and lingering deaths caused by chronic affections, and especially by cancer, diabetes and heart disease. 
I understand that in recent years there has been a great increase of heart disease. Whilst we have overcome the terrors of many old-time complaints which once decimated populations, there is to-day a regrettable increase of diseases of the heart, cancer and diabetes. These afford the Medical Research Council a wide field of investigation. We must endeavour to encourage our intelligent young research workers to discover the causes and the cure of these diseases. The Minister for Health  (Mr. Hughes)  has stated that there has been a considerable diminution of pulmonary tuberculosis, and that is undoubtedly due to the improved social conditions under which people are now living. The medical profession and students of such- matters admit that better social conditions are a great factor in the eradication of disease, especially pulmonary tuberculosis. For the last 50 or 60 years, members of the Labour party have laid great emphasis upon social reform as an aid in improving the health of the nation. The Minister for Health also stated that there has been a diminution of the birth rate, and an increase of infantile mortality. According to that right honorable gentleman, if the average birth rate that had prevailed between 1911 and 1921 had been continued until June, 1933, there would  have been in Australia 350,000 more children under ten years of age. " These children," said the Minister, " would have gladdened the hearts of their parents and in time would have swelled the ranks of the industrial army and helped to develop the country." Such a statement has a fine ring about it; hut, at the same time, would not those children, upon attaining maturity, have assisted to swell the ranks of the unemployed? That aspect of the matter strongly impressed me. Whilst we are fighting for the eradication of disease, and are hoping for a natural increase of population, we are making no great efforts to ensure that avenues of employment are opened up for those children when they are ready to launch out for themselves in the world. If by this bill we make it possible for disease, to be eradicated and for a greater number of children to develop into healthy adults, shall we be able to provide them with work? Referring to the necessity for medical research,  Dr. Carrel  stated - 
Heart diseases have become more -frequent, ' and also diabetes. Tlie maladies of the central nervous system are innumerable. In the course of this life, every individual suffers from nome attack of neurasthenia, of "nervous depression, engendered by constant agitation, noise and worries. 
Although modern hygiene has made human existence "far safer, longer and more pleasant, diseases have not been mastered. They have simply changed in- nature. This change comes undoubtedly from the elimination of infections. But it may be due also to modification in the constitution of tissues under the influence of new modes of life. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council may discover that much of the disease in this country is due to our altered manner of living. In this connexion, I direct attention to an interesting statement made by  Dr. Carrel  in reference to the effect of food on the human body: - 
Staple foods may not contain the same nutritive substance as in former times. Mass production has modified the composition of wheat, eggs, milk, fruit and butter, although these articles have retained their familiar appearance, chemical fertilizers, by increasing thu abundance of the crops, without replacing all the exhausted elements of the soil, have indirectly contributed to change the nutritive value of cereal grains and vegetables. Hens have been compelled, by artificial diet and mode of living, to enter the ranks of mass producers. Has not  the  quality of their eggs been modified? 
In respect of these matters there is plenty of scope for research into the causes of diseases. It may be found that many diseases are due to the change that has taken place in the processes for the production of food. I commend the bill and hope that it will be possible for this Government, or a future government, to devote sufficient money to the work of medical research. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.53]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
These Supplementary Estimates consist of items of expenditure in the financial year 1935-36 for which no specific approval has yet been given by Parliament, but which were met temporarily from the vote for Treasurer's advance, pending submission to Parliament. The authority of Parliament was given for this expenditure by the appropriation in the Estimates in chief of a sum of £2,000,000 under the item "Advance to the Treasurer." This provision, which is in accordance with usual practice, enables the Treasurer to make advances to the various departments' to meet necessary expenditure which was not contemplated when the Estimates in chief were presented. Details of that expenditure are now submitted for appropriation in the form of Supplementary Estimates. Copies of these Estimates have been circulated among honorable senators. I do not propose to refer to the various items in detail. 
Out of the £2,000,000 voted for Treasurer's Advance was expended £870,281, of which £679,450 was for ordinary departmental services and war services payable from revenue, and £190,831 for additions, new works and buildings.Full details of the expenditure, which is now submitted for approval, have already been furnished to Parliament in the' Estimates and budget papers for 1936-37. The Estimates show the amounts voted and the amounts actually spent. In cases in which the expenditure is greater than the amount voted, or a new item of expenditure is incurred, it is temporarily provided from Treasurer's advance pending the parliamentary approval of these Supplementary Estimates. Under the provisions of the Audit Act the Treasurer's finance statement for 1935-36, containing a statement of amounts to be included in Supplementary Estimates, was forwarded to the AuditorGeneral on the 23rd November, 1936, for report, and that report was laid on the table of the Senate on the 3rd December, 1936. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without requests, or debate. 
[4.59]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to seek formal parliamentary approval of the expenditure on public works of the sum of £190,831 paid for out of Treasurer's advance for the financial year 1935-36. The main item of expenditure is £165,000 for telephone services, including the telephone cable between the mainland and Tasmania. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment, or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Under the Primary Produce Export Charges Act 1935, levies are made on apples and pears exported to the United Kingdom and the Continent. The amounts derived from this levy are transferred to the Australian Apple and Pear Export Council, and provide its funds for the various operations which it conducts on behalf of the apple and pear industry, such as advertising overseas, organization of exports, and negotiations with other dominions for the purpose of ensuring orderly marketing of Australian apples on the United Kingdom and other overseas markets. 
A further point in regard to this levy is that, by limiting it to apples and pears shipped to the United Kingdom and the Continent of Europe only, some difficulty might arise in the negotiation of commercial treaties with other countries. It might be alleged that differentiation is being made between exports to certain destinations and those to other destinations. Having in mind all these circumstances, the Australian Apple and Pear Export Council has advised the Government that it is desirable to apply the existing export levy of3/8d. a case to all apples and pears exported from the Commonwealth. This will place all our exports on the same footing, and will obviate any suggestion of differentiation, clause 3 of the amending bill now before the Senate gives effect to this recommendation. 
In connexion with the exemption of certain products from the charges imposed by the Primary Produce Export Charges Act, the Attorney-General's Department has advised that it is not possible under the present act to exempt small quantities of any particular commodity affected by the act, nor quantities which are subject to special circumstances. It is desirable that some minimum should apply in regard to the quantities on which levies might be collected. Furthermore, there are certain shipments which are not really the kind of exports on which levy for advertising should be collected. These include ships' stores, which, it is considered, are legitimately entitled to exemption from the charges. As it is not possible under the existing, act to allow exemptions of the kind mentioned, clause 4 of the amending bill provides for the repeal of the relevant section in the original act, and for the substitution of a clause which will permit the Governor-General to exempt any kind of primary produce to which this act applies from the charges imposed by or under the act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[5.12]. - I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
As I promised honorable senators, I submitted the points raised by them during the debate on the Supply Bill to the Ministers responsible, but I have not received replies to all of them. However, I have received a reply from the Acting Minister for Defence  (Mr. Thorby)  to representations made by  Senator Collett  regarding enforced leave taken by members of the permanent Military Forces in 1930 and 1931.. The reply is as follows : - 
I have made inquiries into this question, and I find that the introduction of enforced leave without pay for members of the permanent Military Forces in 1930-31 was an immediate consequence of the heavy reduction in the Defence allotment which followed upon the acute difficulty in Government finance which was felt at that time. All the services and branches of the departments were obliged substantially to curtail expenditure, the effects of which were reflected in considerable reductions of personnel strength of all branches. In adopting the system of enforced leave without pay for the Army, the Government of the day acted upon the recommendation of the Military Board which considered that this method was preferable, in the circumstances obtaining at the time, to the alternative of retrenchment, a course which was followed in the Navy andother branches. 
Thu Government endorsed the principle that any savings effected in any branch of the department might be applied to the reduction of the period of enforced leave without pay. The procedure dictated by administrative consideration was to make a review of the estimated expenditure at the beginning of each quarter, mid to determine the amount of enforced leave to be taken in the light of the savings in prospect. As a result nf this, ail personnel in receipt of less than £2G0 per annum were exempt from further leave after the second quarter, and enforced leave for everybody was discontinued after the third quarter. 
The restriction upon engagement in outside employment by members of the permanent Forces during the period of enforced leave was consistent with the maintenance of their status mid service as members of the Forces, which, of course, was the underlying principle of thi; scheme. lt is a matter for regret that the exigencies  nf  the financial position in 11)30-31 necessitated such heavy sacrifices by the personnel of thu service, but as the decision of the Government was applied in the manner laid down at thu time, there would not appear to bc any grounds for reviewing it now. If the matter were reopened, far-reaching effects would probably bc also involved in respect of the alternative measures which were taken in the other services and branches to effect reductions in their personnel. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 5.1S p.m. till a day and hour to l&gt;o fixed by the  President. 
On behalf of myself and the other senators of the United Country party, I support the motion. In common with many other honorable senators, my friendship with the late  Senator J.  V. MacDonald was limited to the comparatively short span of about five years, since he was last elected to this chamber; but I have no hesitation in paying a tribute to his ability and undoubted sincerity jn espousing the policy of the Labour party. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 by leave  - I move - 
That this Semite expresses its deep regret at the deathl of the  Hon.  Arthur Bruce Smith, K.C, a former member of the New South Wales and Commonwealth Parliaments, and a former State Minister, places on record its appreciation of his valuable public service, and tenders its deep sympathy to the members of his family in their bereavement. 
The late honorable gentleman had a most distinguished career. He first entered Parliament in 1882, as the member for Gundagai in the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales. For a short period he retired from Parliament, but in 1889 he again sought election and became the representative of Glebe for five years. He attained ministerial rank as Minister for Public Works in the last ministry of  Sir Henry  Parkes. Upon the inauguration of the Commonwealth, he transferred to the federal sphere, and was the representative of Parkes in the House of Representatives until the general election of 1919. The late honorable gentleman was one of the older generation of parliamentarians who preceded federation and took part in the campaign for and against the union. He was not so well known to the younger generation, but those of us who were in the earlier parliaments remember him as an outstanding personality. He entered the Federal Parliament at a time when the political opinions of all parties were undergoing radical changes because of altering circumstances in a changing world.  Mr. Bruce  Smith, however, adhered steadfastly to the opinions that he had always held, and was convinced that the political ills which befell us were due to our having strayed from the path which he had followed with courage and persistence. At the advanced age of 86 years, a man of remarkable personality has passed away and it is fitting that we should pay this tribute to his memory. 
-. I second the motion. ,  I  had not the privilege of personal acquaintance with the late Honorable Bruce Smith, but I remember well many of his activities, especially those to which the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has referred. In the stormy times to which reference has been made one could always be sure of the attitude of the late honorable gentleman. He expressed himself definitely and clearly regardless of the opinions of others. Gentlemen, such as he, who render public service in the Parliaments of Australia are entitled to our respect, both while they are with us and after they have departed from our midst. The members of the Opposition desire to be associated with the motion, particularly that part of it which expresses sympathy with the family of the late honorable gentleman. 
On behalf of the members of the United Country party I support the motion. 
I, too, desire to associate myself with the motion. I was a member of the House of Representatives when the late  Mr. Bruce  Smith was also a member, and I can bear out what has been said this afternoon regarding him. He and I held different political views, butwe were, nevertheless, firm friends. A staunch and true gentleman in the best sense of that word has passed away, full of years and honour. I desire to place on record my appreciation of a great man who was worthy of the respect and affection in which he was held. I regret his passing, and tender my sympathy to the members of his family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether the splendid postal exhibit, representing a parliament of telephones, at the Brisbane Exhibition, was a child of his brain? Did he not think that the telephonic figure representing himself would have done more popular work if the voice which, issued from it had given to the listeners of Brisbane some idea of the date when the new Brisbane Post Office will be built? 
I have no paternal responsibility for the exhibit to which the honorable senator has referred. I have no doubt that wherever it was exhibited it was an ornament to the show. 
Is the Postmaster- 
General aware of the fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission last week refused to broadcast the speech of the Prime Minister of Australia and the Premier of Queensland at the luncheon held in connexion with the Brisbane annual show, which is one of the largest and most important functions conducted in Queensland? Furthermore, is the Minister aware that afterwards the commission made a statement to the effect that the reason why it did not broadcast those proceedings was because the federal elections would be held within three months? In view of the fact that the date of the election has not yet been announced, can he tell us how the Broadcasting Commission could assume that the elections would take place within three months? Will he also inform the commission that the people of this country, who are paying substantial licence-fees, expect it to make available the national stations when matters of great public importance have to be made known to them by the Prime Minister and other Federal and State Ministers? 
The control of broadcasting in Australia is vested by statute in the Australian Broadcasting Commission. That an election will be held within three months is fairly obvious from the fact that the life of this Parliament expires on the 22nd or the 23rd October. Presumably, that was the basis of the commission's assumption. 
Honorable senators are well aware of the nature of the arrangements in connexion with the broadcasting of party political propaganda through the national stations. I have no doubt that, in its desire to give effect to that policy, the commission saw fit to takethe actionto which  Senator Foll  has referred. 
Does the Australian Broadcasting Commission consider that important statements made by the Prime Minister relating to the great constitutional crisis in the United Kingdom, the trade dispute with Japan, and other subjects of national importance, can be placed in the category of party political propaganda ? 
[5.12]. - I lay upon the table of the Senate the following paper: - 
Imperial Conference 1937 - Summary of Proceedings,  and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
A speech relating to the Conference is being delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  in the House of Representatives this afternoon; I have a copy of it which I propose to read for the information of honorable senators.  (Vide  pages 21-37.) 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to8 p.m. 

Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
.  -  by leave  - The International Sugar Conference held in London from the 5th April to the 6th May of this year, was, in effect, the culmination of prolonged efforts by many sugar-producing countries to deal with the related problems of excessive stocks of sugar, world overproduction, and very low prices in world markets. 
The sugar depression started nine years ago, and so preceded the general world economic depression by some years. 
For the nine years up to the end of 1936, the price of raw sugar in the world's markets was little more than one-half of the cost of production, even in the most efficient countries which employ native labour. The London price of raw sugar in bond during that period was usually between £4 and £5 a ton, compared with the estimated cost of production of about £9 a ton, which would enable the great sugar-producing countries, such as Java and Cuba, to function at a profit and also pay reasonable wages to their workers. 
The long-continued period of abnormally low sugar prices produced suffering and great loss in those countries in which sugar is the principal crop. Overproduction and excessive world stocks, which a few years ago reached 9,000,000 tons, forced Cuba to reduce its annual production from 5,200,000 tons to 2,300,000 tons, and Java to do so from 2,900,000 tons to as low as 450,000 tons. This abnormal and uneconomic position caused unprecedented chaos and losses in some countries which export all or most of their production. Other countries which produced some part of their own consumption of sugar were obliged to meet this situation by bounties and payments to enable their producers to meet at least the cost of production. 
Australia, happily, did not require to increase its' domestic price, but actually was able to reduce it four years ago. This was due partly to continued improvement in the already high efficiency of our sugar industry, and partly to lower wages and other costs which followed from Australia's general economic readjustment during 1931. Even so, sugar exports from Australia have been returning unsatisfactory financial returns, despite assistance from exchange and British and Canadian tariff preferences, so that the industry's position had become substantially weakened, to the marked detriment of the producers, as is clearly shown, apart from other evidence, by the very small amounts now received from sugar producers in respect of Federal and State income taxation. 
Reverting to. the general world sugar position, honorable senators may remember that, in May, 1931, the International 
Sugar Agreement, known as " the Chadbourne plan ", was signed by representatives of Cuba, Java, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary, Belgium and Peru. The objects of this plan were the immediate reduction of world sugar production to something below then current consumption, and the segregation of excess stocks held by the signatory countries for the purpose of liquidating all excess stocks within five years, and thus restoring remunerative world prices. 
The eight countries which adopted the Chadbourne plan severely reduced their production and exports, and even went so far, subsequent to signing the agreement, as further to reduce their outputs. Unfortunately, however, several countries outside the Chadbourne plan concurrently increased their production and exports, and thus nullified the sacrifices of the "Chadbourne" countries. In these circumstances, world market prices remained hopelessly unprofitable to any sugarexporting nation. 
There was such distress in sugarproducing countries that the problem of sugar was brought up at the World Monetary and Economic Conference of 1.933, which was held under the auspices of the League of Nations. That conference decided to hold an international sugar conference to deal with the problem. The United Kingdom Government was requested to convene the conference at the earliest practicable date. It was clear, after the experience of the Chadbourne agreement, that no international agreement could hope to succeed unless the great bulk of the world's sugar production and export fell within its ambit. In consequence, all the principal sugarproducing countries of the world were invited. 
Towards the end of 1935, it was expected that the conference would be held about March, 1936, but owing to difficulty on the part of several large producing countries in sending representatives at that time, it became necessary to postpone the conference until April, 1937, when the attendance of 22 nations was 'secured, representing about 90 per cent, of all production and exports of sugar in the world. 
Preparations for the participation of Australia in the conference began some time before its meeting in London. Considerable correspondence by despatch and cable was exchanged with Great Britain during the eighteen months prior to April, 1937, in order to ensure that, when the conference met, Australian interests should not suffer. 
The Government appointed the Treasurer (The Honorable R. G. Casey) as principal delegate to the International Sugar Conference, together with the High Commissioner, the Right Honorable S. M. Bruce; and the Premier of Queensland, the Honorable W. Forgan Smith,  who  went to London on the invitation of the Queensland sugar producers to watch their interests, and was given recognition by the Commonwealth Government as a substitute delegate. 
The 'British Empire countries met " frequently to decide their attitude towards new situations that frequently developed as the conference proceeded. .The conference held a large number of meetings, both in public and in private. The conflicting interests of a wide range of countries necessitated protracted negotiations. It was the aim of all those concerned with the preparation and presentation of Australia's case to endeavour to obtain the right to export as high a tonnage of Australia's raw sugar as was possible from the lands already devoted to sugar production. In 1936, Australia exported 409,000 long tons of raw sugar. The 1936 season had been propitious, and we were fortunate in being able to secure that discussion of future export tonnages at the International Sugar Conference should be on the basis of the 1936 production, and not on that of any earlier, and, for Australia, less productive year. 
By reason of the long years of experience which Australia has had of the economic control of sugar production, and because of the not inconsiderable interests that we had at stake, the Australian delegation took a leading part in the manifold negotiations of the conference, both in the international sphere and in the discussions with the representatives of other members of the British Empire. There were many occasions when the work of the conference seemed doomed  to failure, but the fact that failure to agree would have meant a continuance of conditions approaching chaos in the world's sugar market forced acceptance of the allocation of quotas that eventually emerged. 
The International Sugar Agreement contains a carefully devised five-year plan, to commence ou the 1st September, 1937, for establishing and maintaining an orderly relationship between world supply and demand in respect of sugar with the object of securing average prices in the free markets of the world that will 'be equitable to both producers and consumers. By " free markets " is meant those countries which purchase sugar unassisted by import quotas, preferential tariffs, or any other means. The quantity of sugar so involved is approximately 3,600,000 tons per annum. The agreement constitutes one of the few outstanding achievements to date in the realm of international economics. There has not previously been a world agreement, dealing with a commodity, signed by so many nations, or covering such a complex problem as sugar. Already the agreement has stabilized the free-market price at nearly 50 per cent, above the average level of the last nine years, and it is not impossible that further price rises will occur in the world's markets. It guarantees to Australia an irreducible basic export, quota of 400,000 long tons, or 406,423 metric tons, for each year of the agreement, starting on the 1st September, 1937, and also, after the first year, an addition to that quantity representing Australia's proportionate share of any increase of consumption by those parts of the British Empire which import sugar. The minimum quota of 400,000 long tons is actually only 9,000 tons less than the export surplus available from the record 1936 season, which was partly due to phenomenally good climatic conditions in nearly all the sugar-producing districts. When considering this result, it has to be borne in mind that practically every other sugar-producing country in the world experienced substantial reduc-tion of its previous export total. 
Australia, therefore, emerges from the International Sugar Conference under happy conditions. T.t is clear that we shall at least be able to maintain the full production that at present exists and that there will be no reduction of the areas under sugar or of employment in the industry. With the prospect of increased exports in the future as consumption in Britain rises, as it is now doing, even better conditions in our sugar districts are more than probable. When this agreement comes into force, the present British tariff preference of  £3  Jus.  a ton on dominiongrown sugar of 96 degrees polarization will be renewed for the term of the agreement, namely, five years. Furthermore, when he  was  in London, the Treasurer  wa3  able to ensure retention of the valuable provision whereby the British Government must give at least eighteen months' notice of any intention to modify this preference of £3 15s. a ton on Australian sugar entering Great Britain- 
The agreement will be administered by an International Sugar Council and an executive committee. The Government has appointed the High Commissioner,  Mr. S.  M. Bruce; his Official Secretary,  Mr. S.  G. McFarlane, and the AgentGeneral for Queensland,  Mr. L.  H. Pike, to act as Australia's representatives on the council. The two first-named gentlemen have already been appointed to the provisional council which is doing the preliminary work necessary to bring the agreement into force on the 1st September next. For the very important first year of the agreement, when all the administrative machinery will be created, and most of the problems of world control will be determined, Australia has been fortunate enough to secure a seat on the executive committee, which will meet far more often than the council, and will be responsible for most of the work arising out of the agreement.  Mr. Bruce  has been appointed to represent Australia on this committee, with  Mr. Pike  as alternate representative. The Government took the necessary steps some weeks ago to ratify the International Sugar Agreement, and the instrument of ratification is now in the possession of the Government of the United Kingdom as required by the agreement. 
The safeguarding for 'five years of a minimum market for Australian raw  sugar, practically equal to our previous record exports, and ut improved prices, is a satisfactory outcome. The net return on our exported sugar at to-day's price is about 30s. a ton higher than the average for 1936. This is a direct result of the success of the conference. On an export volume of 'f00,000 tons, this return represents increased export income to Australia at the rate of about £600,000 a year. I need hardly say that the references which I have made to higher prices for sugar relate solely to the markets of the world outside our shores, and have no relation to she retail price of sugar within Australia, which, of course, will remain unaltered. 
The position of the Australian sugar industry to-day is that it has a greater measure of security than it has ever enjoyed, with consequent benefit to over 30,000 sugar fanners and workers and their wives and families, and the large amount of capital invested in the industry. Reflex influences of an equally favorable character will he felt by the many towns, business people, and municipal authorities in the sugar districts of Queensland and New South Wales, and by State railways, ports, and general finances. The maintenance of sound, vigorous settlement in the far north is of great importance to Australia for national reasons, and the sugar industry, which is hy far the most significant factor in such settlement, has now been assured of the opportunity to continue at its present level, and, indeed, to expand as the years go on. 
Senate adjourned at 8-25 p.m. 
I direct the attention of the Leader of the Senate to the following statement which was published in the  Townsville Bulletin  on the 29th July :  - 
"NAKEDHITLERISM". 
Ordinance Criticized. 
Canberra, July 27, 1937. " If Australians read in the newspapers that twenty Germans were not allowed to meet to discuss public affairs, they would gasp with amazement, yet the same thing was happening  in the capital of their own country ", said Mr.E. Hughes, former  president  of the Canberra Australian Workers Union, and son of the Federal Minister for Health  (Mr. W. M. Hughes),  criticizing the Unlawful Assemblies Ordinance promulgated last week. 
This is " Hitlerism", naked and unashamed, enforced by a deliberate decree in the national capital. 
Can the right honorable gentleman tell me why this ordinance was promulgated? Was there some fear that the unemployed, or some other body, would commence a revolutionary outbreak ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE The area of the Federal Capital Territory is 900 square miles. In8997/2 miles of that area public meetings may be held. The only portion of the Territory in which public meetings may not be held is that adjoining the precincts of this Parliament House. If the honorable senator wishesto inform himself of the terms of the ordinance I advise him to read it; it is self-explanatory. 
 by leave  - I last made a statement on the international situation to honorable senators on the 23rd June, and I think it would be opportune for me to review some of the more important developments which have occurred during the last two months. Ipropose to confine my remarks to the subject of nonintervention in Spain, the Sino-Japanese conflict and the position which has arisen  as a result of the recommendations of the Palestine Royal Commission. 
Honorable senators will recollect that it was alleged in a German official communique of the 19th June that a Spanish Government submarine had fired torpedoes at the cruiser  Leipzig  on the 15th and 18th June. The German Government asked that the four powers responsible for the naval patrol, Great Britain, Prance, Germany and Italy, should join in a. strong though " peaceful " demonstration before Valencia, that the Valencia Government should be required to surrender its submarines, which would be placed under neutral control, and should be threatened with reprisals in the event of further attack. The British and French Governments refused the German request for a demonstration,taking the, view that there should be a further investigation of the  Leipzig  incident. Germany and Italy forthwith assumed full freedom of action and withdrew their ships from the naval patrol scheme, though they did not withdraw from the Non-intervention Committee. 
The British and. French Governments informed the Chairman's Sub-Committee of the Non-intervention Committee on the 29th June of their willingness to assume responsibility for the gap in the naval patrol scheme caused by the withdrawal of the German and Italian units, and of their willingness to consider the placing of neutral observers on their own patrol ships. These proposals were favorably considered by all members of the sub-committee except the German and Italian representatives who, although undertaking to submit the proposals to their governments, expressed the view that these would be found unacceptable because they offered no guarantees of impartiality. The German and Italian representatives also informed the subcommittee that all Germans and Italians employed on international duties as observers would be withdrawn, and the Portuguese Government intimated that it could no longer agree to the control of the Portuguese-Spanish frontier by British observers, until it had become clear whether a new scheme of naval patrol could be put into operation. . 
The German and Italian representatives put forward counter-proposals at a meeting of the Chairman's SubCommittee on the 2nd July, which were briefly to the effect that all interested powers should agree to recognize the possession by both parties in the Spanish conflict of belligerent rights, that the international system of naval patrol should be abandoned, and that the rest of the present system of supervision by land and sea should be maintained. The Belgian, Czechoslovak, Swedish and Russian representatives expressed themselves in agreement with the AngloFrench proposals, and the sub-committee finally decided that the two sets of proposals should be communicated to all governments represented on the NonIntervention Committee, with a view to the situation being considered at a full meeting. 
The Non-Intervention Committee met on the 9th July, and the fact became clear that neither of the two sets of proposals would be generally acceptable. The representatives of the small powers expressed the hope, however, that it would be possible to find some compromise which would enable the policy of non-intervention tobe continued, and it was proposed by the Netherlands representative that the British Government should be invited to make an attempt to reconcile the divergent views. This proposal was unanimously adopted by the committee, and the  Chairman,  Lord Plymouth, announced the willingness of the British Government to undertake the task of finding a solution of the -present difficulties in view of the gravity of the situation. 
The British plan was published on the loth July and submitted to the NonIntervention Committee on the following day. Its principal features were the abolition of the naval patrol, the reinforcement of the land patrol, the supervision of the entry of aircraft into Spain,' the withdrawal of foreign volunteers, and, conditional on progress being made with this latter point, the recognition in a modified form of the belligerent rights of both parties. 
The Chairman's Sub-Committee of the Non-Intervention Committee met on the 20th July to consider the new British plan. Disagreement, however, arose as to the question of priority between the withdrawal of volunteers and the recognition of belligerency. Lord Plymouth, ' supported by the French, Russian and other representatives, proposed that the sub-committee should address itself first to the three problems set out in paragraph !) of the British plan in the following order : First, the establishment of officers in Spanish ports; second, the withdrawal of foreign volunteers and the establishment of commissions in Spain to supervise such withdrawal; and, third, the conditions on which belligerent rights were to be granted. 
This procedure was not acceptable to the Italian, German and Portuguese rep-  resentatives  who maintained that the discussion should follow the order of the British proposals as a whole, which would mean taking the question of belligerent rights before that of the withdrawal of volunteers. The Russian representative said that the whole British plan was dependent on the questions relating to the withdrawal of foreign volunteers from Spain, and that this should accordingly be the first matter considered by the subcommittee. It was found impossible, at this meeting, to agree upon the procedure to he adopted, and it was decided that the sub-committee should adjourn to enable representatives to consult their respective governments. 
The British Government attempted to resolve the deadlock reached at the meeting of the sub-committee on the 20th July, by drawing up a list of questions based on the full British plan which it proposed to submit to the various governments in order to obtain a clear statement of their views for and against the various details. This . list was circulated in advance to members of the Nonintervention Committee, but when the chairman's sub-committee met again on the 26th July, it had before it a rival Italian list of questions. The sub-committee eventually decided to send the text of the British plan to the governments represented on the Non-intervention Committee with a covering note asking them to indicate in writing their views on each of the proposals in the plan, the replies to be framed on the assumption that acceptance of any of the proposals was conditional on  agreement  being reached on all other points. The replies of most of the governments were generally favorable to the principles of the British plan, but in the case of France, the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, Germany and- Italy, -the comments attached to the proposals for the recognition of belligerency and the withdrawal of volunteers still revealed different points of view. The French Government insisted on the complete fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the original plan for the recognition- of belligerency. The Soviet Government stated that it could not consent to the linking of the question of the recognition of belligerency with that of the withdrawal of volunteers, and expressed the view that as soon as belligerent rights had been granted to them, the Spanish insurgents would cease to carry out their part of the undertaking. The Soviet Government would not be prepared to examine the question of belligerent rights until the complete evacuation of all foreign nationals from Spain had been effected. The German and Italian replies were to the effect that the recognition of belligerent rights should synchronise with the beginning of the process of the withdrawal of volunteers. 
The chairman's sub-committee met on the 30th July, to consider these replies. Lord Plymouth, in his opening statement, indicated the serious disagreement which still existed between the Soviet Government's view on the one hand, and that of the German and Italian Governments on the other, as to the connexion between the withdrawal of volunteers and the recognition of belligerent rights. A fairly general agreement had been reached in respect of the other features of the scheme. The German representative strongly criticized the attitude of the Soviet Government, and said that the Soviet's refusal to consider the granting of belligerent rights had created an entirely new situation; the German Government must now reserve its decision. The Italian representative agreed with the German view, hut the Soviet representative refused to modify his opposition to the recognition of belligerency. The sub-committee finally agreed to adjourn, no date being fixed for its next meeting. 
I hope that ultimately it will be possible for the Non-Intervention Committee to agree  upon  a common basis of action. No nation wishes the Spanish civil war to become a European war, but, unless there is sincere co-operation between the nations of Europe to make the policy of non-intervention in Spain a reality, the danger of a European war must inevitably increase. The British proposals in regard to non-intervention are designed to circumscribe the area of the Spanish conflict and to leave Spain to work out its own destiny.- The Commonwealth Government is entirely in agreement with these aims. 
Before concluding my remarks on Spain, I would refer to one other aspect of the situation. During the last few weeks, there has been an increasing number of submarine attacks on shipping in the Mediterranean, and on the 18th August, the following official statement was issued by the British Government : - 
His Majesty's Government has been seriously perturbed at the increasing number of attacks upon shipping which have occurred of late in Mediterranean waters, and at the extension of the area -in which these incidents are now taking place. 
His Majesty's Government has issued instructions through the Admiralty that if any British merchant ship is attacked by a submarine without warning, His Majesty's ships are authorized to counter-attack the submarine. 
The present situation in. North China is exceedingly dangerous. On the 7th July, fighting broke out at  Loukouchiao,  20 miles from Peiping, between -troops belonging to the 29th Route Army and Japanese troops who were carrying out night -manoeuvres in the neighbourhood. The responsibility for the. origin of the outbreak remains obscure. The Chinese Central Government at Nanking has, from the outset, sought to effect a settlement direct with Tokyo, whereas Japan has been equally insistent, on negotiating only with the local authorities in *North China, that is to say, with the HopeiChahar Political Council. In a public declaration, on the 20th July, Marshal Chiang Kai-shek, the head of the Nanking Government, said that any settlement must respect the territorial integrity and the sovereign rights of China, that the status of the  Hopei-Chahar  Political Council must be defined by the Central Government, that outside interference must not be tolerated, and that he would not agree to the removal of officials in North China appointed by the Central Government. By the 11th August, the centre of the Sino- Japanese crisis had shifted to the Shanghai area. Owing to the deaths of two Japanese marines in a clash with Chinese troops outside the city boundary of Shanghai, the Japanese strengthened their forces in the neighbourhood by the despatch of considerable naval and military reinforcements. 
Before the situation in North China became dangerous, it had been arranged that the Australian Trade Commissioner in China,  Mr. V.  G. Bowden, whose headquarters are in Shanghai, should visit Australiaon departmental business. It has now, however, been decided that he should, for the time being, remain in Shanghai in order to advise the Government immediately of any important developments, and to co-operate with the representatives of other powers in measures for the protection of Australian lives and property. 
For the past twelve days, therehas been heavy fighting in the Shanghai area, where British subjects have large interests, and considerable damage has been caused to British property. The International Settlement was bombed by Chinese aeroplanes on the 14th August, resulting in the death of . 1.73 people and the wounding of 149. No British subjects were killed, but several are reported to have been injured. The British Government is determined to protect British lives, rights and property, and has intimated to the Japanese and Chinese Governments that it will hold them responsible for any damage to either life or property that may be suffered by British subjects as a result of action taken by Japanese or Chinese forces in the course of the present hostilities in China. The International Police Force has been mobilized, the British troops in Shanghai have been heavily reinforced, and there are now three battalions there. Five hundred additional American marines have arrived. By the 28th August, there will also be three battalions of French troops in Shanghai together with five armoured cars and tanks. It is considered that the defence position at the International Settlement is now satisfactory. Reports that have appeared in a section of the Australian press to the effect that the International Police Force has withdrawn from Shanghai and that the International Settlement is undefended, are, therefore, completely misleading. 
By the 21st August, about 3,300 British subjects, nearly all of them women and children, had been evacuated from Shanghai. Another 450 British subjects left yesterday, but no arrangements are being made for further evacuation unless the situation deteriorates. It appears that the members of the British community are unwilling to contemplate any general evacuation or abandonment, of their interests. Chinese banks resumed restricted business on the 20th August and foreign banks normal business on the- 23rd August. There is no shortage of" food and fresh supplies are entering; Shanghai daily. Many large fires havestarted in the belligerent area, but there is none in the immediate neighbourhood of the International Settlement. Thelives of the inhabitants of the International Settlement are still endangered by stray shells and aircraft bombs, but both Japanese and Chinese aeroplanes appear to be avoiding any attack on theInternational Settlement. 
Every government interested in the maintenance of peace in the Far East believes that it would bea disaster if Japan and China were to drift into a major war without making a seriouseffort to settle their differences by direct diplomatic negotiations. The British Government has, from the outset of the dispute, made it clear both in Tokyo and Nanking that it would do anything in its power to contribute to a peaceful solution. From the information in possession of the Commonwealth Government, it appears, however, that hostilities on a large scale are now inevitable, although there are elements on both sides which still favour a peaceful solution. 
The Japanese already control a large portion of North China. The two main cities of Peipirig and Tientsin are in their possession, and Japanese military control has extended to the establishment of a censorship of all postal and telegraphic communications, which, meanwhile, remain suspended. Their various demands, which have brought relations almost to a breaking point on several occasions, have not been modified, and Chinese spokesmen have now announced that nothing loss than the withdrawal of all Japanese troops from NorthChina will restore amicable relations. On the other hand, the heavy reinforcements being poured into the Shanghai and Peiping areas by Japan indicate a determination to crush Chinese resistance by extreme measures. It is estimated that China has suffered some 4,000 casualties, and Japan about 500, in the fighting which has taken place up to the present. 
The report of the royal commission which was appointed in August, 1936, to inquire into the underlying causes of the disturbances in Palestine and the manner in which the mandate was being implemented was published on the 8th July,- 1936. After considering several possible solutions, the commission recommended the partition of Palestine and the termination of the mandate. The British Government expressed its general agreement with the recommendations of the commission, and stated that it proposed to take the necessary steps to give effect to a scheme of partition. 
A debate on the royal commission's report took place in the House of Commons on the 22nd July and a motion was moved on behalf of the Government asking the House to approve the Government's policy relating to partition. An amendment moved by  Mr. Winston  Churchill was carried, however, providing that the proposals of the royal commission should be brought before the League of Nations with the object of enabling the British Government, after an adequate inquiry, to present to Parliament a definite scheme, and take into full account all the recommendations of the commission. The British Government informed the Secretary-General of the League of Nations that it had communicated the report of the royal commission, and also its conclusions on that report, to the Permanent Mandates Commission. The British Government asked that matters relating to Palestine should be placed on the agenda for the September session of the League Council, and that the Mandates Commission should consider the documents relating to Palestine at an extraordinary session to begin on the 30th July. At the opening meeting of the Mandates Commission on that date,  Mr. Ormsby-Gore,  the Secretary of State for the Colonies, explained fully the recommendations of the royal commission. The Mandates Commission then proceeded to examine the annual reports submitted by the British Government on the administration of Palestine during 1935 and 1936. It also examined in detail the report of the royal commission. 
The Permanent Mandates Commission has now prepared its report, which will be considered at the next session of the League Council, in September. The full text of the report has not yet been received in Australia, but cabled information indicates that- the commission considers the present mandate to be unworkable, and recommends that there should be a transitional period of political apprenticeship for Arabs and Jews. In the opinion of the commission, one solution would be to divide Palestine into cantons, or provinces, which would be self -governing in such matters as public works, health, education and general administration. The mandatory government would remain as a central, or federal, government, controlling such matters as foreign relations, defence and customs. An alternative solution suggested by the commission would be to set up two separate states - one Arab and the other Jewish - each of which should be administered under a separate mandate until it had proved its capacity for self-, government. The report also recommends a separate regime for the Holy Places, and concludes by paying a tribute to the disinterested efforts of Great Britain on behalf of both Arabs and Jews. 
Honorable senators will agree that the problem of Palestine cannot be regarded as a purely local one. Palestine is of great strategical importance in the defence of the Suez Canal ; it is the outlet of the oil pipe line from Mosul; it is also one of the halting places on the international, air route to India, the Far East and Australia. A satisfactory solution of the problem of Palestine is, accordingly, a matter of great practical importance to Australia on account of its bearing on the safeguarding of this country's communications' with other 1)arts of the Empire. 
asked the Minister in charge of Scientific and Industrial Research,  upon notice - 
I.. In view of the admitted importance of thu development of the- fisheries of Australia, and of the industries allied thereto,, and having regard to the surveys already made on theeastern and portion of the southern coast*,, will the Minister direct that the first task of the research vessel now under construction shall be to investigate the fisheries of thewestern coast? 
Will the Minister also favour the establishment at Fremantle of a permanent marine biological research station? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 1.. The programme of investigations of fisheries has not yet been completed.  Dr. Harold  Thompson, the officer incharge of fisheries, will be visiting Western Australia and other States in order to enable him to make recommendations in this regard. When the programme is being finalized full consideration will be given to the question of investigating the fisheries of the western coast. Available information suggests that large quantities of fish abound off the southern and western coasts of Western Australia. 
The question of establishing marine biological stations will probably be a matter for the States. Consideration is being given to the establishment of a central national fisheries laboratory which would co-operate with State marine biological stations. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that recently the Government announced that it was not their intention to interfere in any way with the export to Japan of iron-ore from Koolan Island, Yampi Sound, in Western Australia? 
If so, has there been any change of the Government's intentions since that announcement was made. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
and 2. The Government has no desire unnecessarily to deny to foreign countries access to our raw materials. The Government has in hand a general survey of the iron resources of Australia, in order that it may be ascertained whether the total Australian supplies are more than adequate for the anticipated future needs of the nation. 
The State Governments have been, asked to await the filial results of the survey before granting any further mining leases or other mining rights which would have as their objective the export of iron ore to foreign countries. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a telegram from Canberra published in the  West Auslralian  of the 6th instant stating that " the Federal Ministry will probably attempt to discourage the development of the Yampi deposits, in Western Australia, for the export of iron ore " ? 
What are the reasons for this suggested reversal of the previous attitude of the Government towards the establishment of this new industry in Western Australia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 1 and 2. Yes. The attitude of the Commonwealth Government in regard to this matter was set out in a statement which the Prime Minister made to the press on 13th August. The statement read: - 
The Government is keeping under constant supervision all the relevant factors which relate to the export of iron ore from Australia. It desires to emphasize that, having regard to the efforts which are now being made to eliminate the causes of international friction, nothing could be more unsound or unwise that for Australia unnecessarily to deny to foreign countries access to her raw materials. At the same time, the Government has in hand a survey of our iron resources, in order that it maybe ascertained whether the total Australian supplies are more than adequate for the anticipated future needs of the nation. Should there be an abundance of workable ore, restriction upon reasonable export could not be justified. Onthe other hand, should there be any substantial foundation for a fear of future shortage the Government will not hesitate to take whatever steps are necessary to conserve our national interests. 
The State Governments have been asked to await the final results of the survey before granting any further mining leases or other mining rights which would have as their objective the export of iron ore to foreign countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a speech made by the Honorable G.W. Miles, M.L.C., in the Western Australian Parliament (reported in the  West Australian  of the 12th inst. ) criticizing the reported attitude of the Federal Government towards the development of the iron deposits at Yampi Sound? 
Is it a fact, as suggested, that the Federal Government has refused the remission under by-law of duties on any of the machinery required for Yampi? . 
Is the Minister in a position to relieve any anxiety which exists in Western Australia as to the Government's intentions in this matter? 
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received a recent communication from the Government of Western Australia expressing its desire to negotiate an agreement with the Federal Government for the standardization of the railway gauge from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle? 
If not, will the Government give early and favorable consideration to the urgent need of communicating with the Government of Western Australia suggesting that negotiations be commenced between the two governments for the satisfactory completion of such an agreement? 
No. 
Consideration will be given to the question of communicating with the Government of Western Australia concerning the standardizationof the railway gauge between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs,  upon notice - 
What is the completed mileage of the standard gauge Commonwealth railway extension from Port Augusta to Port Pirie, South Australia? 
What was the contract price for the completion of this extension? 
What was the completed mileage and contract price of the South Australian railway extension from Red Hill to Port Pirie? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
At the recent Imperial Conference, was the High Commissioner, the Eight Honorable S. M. Bruce, successful in obtaining a discussion on the varying of the British preference on dominion canned fruits from 15 per cent. ad valorem to a flat rate of 2s. per dozen 30 oz. tins or its equivalent, 10s. per cwt. ? 
What is the new arrangement, if any? 
If the proposal was unsuccessful, what were the reasons? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. Representations were made to the United Kingdom Government but their attitude was that variation of the canned fruits preference can only be considered in conjunction with the general review of the Ottawa Agreement. 2 and 3. See 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received any guarantee from Amalgamated Wireless Limited and Phillips Lamps Limited of Australia that they will supply radio valves to independent radio manufacturers at a price no higher than they could land equivalent types of imported valves into their stores duty paid, and also if the above two firms have guaranteed to have available a continuous and adequate supply of all necessary valves to fill independent radio manufacturers' requirements ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has furnished the following answer: - 
Wireless valves of Australian manufacture are distributed to radio receiving set manufacturers at a lower price than similar types of overseas manufacture. The increased production brought about in Australia by the partial prohibition of imported valves has made it possible for prices of Australian-made valves to be reduced. In connexion with supplies of wireless valves, the Government is in close touch with local manufacturing developments. 
The Government is aware that the Australian wireless valve manufacturers are making valves available to users and purchasers in accordance with usual trade practice. There is no foundation for the belief that these manufacturers contemplate any departure from these trade practices. There has been no difficulty in the past in obtaining supplies of the types of wireless valves which are manufactured in Australia. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
In reference to a question asked by  Senator Marwick  on the 30th June, in connexion with the reported diversion of the Darwin-Perth air mail from Darwin, via Adelaide, to Perth, and the possible inconvenience such diversion would cause the people of Western Australia, and more particularly the north-west ports, will the Minister state if this matter has received consideration, and whether he is in a position to make a full statement in connexion therewith? 
The question of the re-organizationof the internal air mail services, consequent upon the introduction of the Empire air mailscheme, is at present receiving consideration by the Government. When a decision has been reached, a full statement will be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Has the Government, in response to numerous applications, made provision for exemption of local-governing bodies from sales tax on all articles used by them intheir public works? 
If not, what is the reason for discriminating between these bodies and State government departments ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
There is no provision in the sales tax law for exemption from sales tax in respect of all articles used by local-governing bodies in their public works. The Government has, however, in practice, exempted a wide range of equipment and materials used by localgoverning bodies, notably - 
materials for the formation or maintenance of roads; 
piping, channelling and guttering; 
bricks, cement, concrete, timber, glass and other building materials as specified in the Sales Tax Exemptions Act; 
goods for the use of public transport authorities exclusively in the conduct of transport services. 
In addition, exemption has also been allowed in respect of electric current, gas, and water supplied by public bodies or authorities. 
The exemption of goods for use by State government departments was primarily the result of difficulties and anomalies which were encountered in 1930-31 in attempts to levy sales tax on such goods, and which were associated mainly with the limitations imposed by the Constitution upon the taxation of State governments. Similar limitations are not imposed upon the taxation of localgoverning bodies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a statement in the Australian  DairyReview,  of the 17th August, 1937, to the following effect:- "In the course of the scientific preparations for the Eleventh World's Dairy Congress, to be held in Berlin in August, it became apparent that the production of milk wool is not solely confined to a few countries, apart from Italy, where the invention was made; thus, in Holland, a new textile product, ' Lactofil ', made from the casein of skim milk is being launched on the market, while in Czechoslovakia a company has been founded, the object of which is the making of artificial wool, chiefly for the use of the woollen industry of Britain. For the purpose of this production, which is to be based on the Lanital manufacturing process, as practised in Italy, the Chemical Society of Aussig, in common with a number of wellknown Czechoslovakia!! dairies, has provider! funds amounting to 30,000,000 Czech crowns (almost £212,000). A Hungarian fertilizer factory, the majority of whose shares are owned by the Chemical Society of Aussig, is also going to undertake the production of milk wool by the Lanital process"? 
Has the Government made any inquiries regarding the production of artificial wool? 3.Ifso, will the fullest information on this matter be given to honorable senators? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
The matter is under constant review. 
More complete information will be available to honorable senators when the inquiries of the Wool Board on this matter "have proceeded further. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state for the information of honorable senators which of the placed candidates for the Senate in the forthcoming election, namely, first, second, third, or fourth in New South Wales, and first, second, or third in Queensland, will fill the respective casual vacancies in those States? 
The vacancy in New South Wales is a long casual vacancy, and pursuant to sub-section 2 of section 9 of the Senate Elections Act will befilled by the candidate who next after the periodical vacancies have been filled first receives an absolute majority of votes. Therefore, in New South Wales the candidates elected first, second and third, will fill the periodical vacancies, and the candidate elected fourth will fill the casual vacancy. 
The vacancy in Queensland is a short casual vacancy, and pursuant to sub-section 1 of section 9 of the SenateElections Act, will be filled by the first candidate, not being a senatorcandidate, who is elected to fill a periodical vacancy. Therefore, in Queensland the first candidate elected (who is not a retiring senator) will fill the casual vacancy. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure is substantially the same as a bill bearing the same title that was introduced in the Senate on the 17th March, 1936. Several amendments of varying degrees of importance were made in that measure during its passage through Parliament, and as the bill as amended did not become law prior to the prorogation in May last, it lapsed. This bill embodies the majority of the amendments, but in preparing it for reintroduction opportunity was taken to provide for certain other alterations consequent' upon such amendments. As a similar measure was recently before the Senate, I do not propose to weary honorable senators with a lengthy explanation of the provisions of this bill. Further explanation can, if necessary, be made later. It will be sufficient to outline briefly the principal features of the bill. 
The bill deals with five principal matters, namely - 
The partial consolidation of laws relating to the interpretation of Commonwealth statutes. (2)he date of commencement of acts of Parliament. 
The application of amendments made by various amending Acts Interpretation Act. (4)he retrospective operation of and the tabling and disallowance of regulations. 
Several miscellaneous matters. 
In regard to the partial consolidation of Acts Interpretation Act, I may say that at present the two main acts relating to the interpretation of Commonwealth acts and regulations', are the Acts Interpretation Acts of 1901 and 1904. Each of these acts has been amended on several occasions with the result that the task of interpretating statutes is more difficult than it need be. The bill, therefore, provides that the provisions of the act of 1904, as amended from time to time, shall, with one or two exceptions, such as the provision dealing with the commencing date of regulations, be incorporated in the act of 1901. 
The present law in regard to the date of the commencement of Commonwealth acts is contained in section 5 of the act of 1901. This section provides that where the Royal assent is given to an act by the Governor-General on behalf of the King, the act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal assent unless the contrary intention appears in the act. In respect of acts which are reserved for the signification of the King's* pleasure, it is provided that they shall come into operation on the day on which His Majesty's pleasure is proclaimed in the  Gazelle  by the Governor-General. During the Cabinet meetings in Perth in 1935, representations were made to the Government that laws made by the Commonwealth Parliament were often in  force before copies were available in the far-distant States. It was pointed out that the inconvenience resulting from the absence of copies of acts was particularly felt inWestern Australia. These representations have been favorably considered by the Government, and clause 6 of the bill is designed to give effect to them. Under this clause, it is proposed to amend section 5 so as to postpone, for 28 days, the operation of acts, other than acts to amend the Constitution, passed on and after the 1st January, 1938. In other words, acts which are assented to by the Governor-General will come into operation on the 28th day after the day on which such assent is given. The section will, of course, apply only where no contrary intention appears in the act itself. It is not proposed to alter the commencing date of acts reserved for His Majesty's pleasure, or acts amending the Constitution.When this clause is in operation, it should, as a general rule, be possible for copies of acts to be made available in all the States some time before the acts actually come into operation. 
As has already been mentioned, there have been several amendments of Acts Interpretation Act. Doubts have arisen as to whether these amendments are to be applied in the interpretation of acts passed prior to the enactment of such amendments. In order to remove these doubts, clause 4 contains a new section providing for the application of the original act of 1901, as amended from time to time, to all acts irrespective of the date when they became law. I hope that honorable senators understand the position. The Acts Interpretation Act having been amended, the question has arisen : " Does that amendment apply when interpreting an act already on the statute-book, or does it apply only to acts passed after the amendmentof the act itself?" That point has been made clear by the provision that the Acts Interpretation Act shall apply to acts already on the statutebook as well as to future acts. 
I come now to that portion of the bill which deals with the commencing date of regulations. Honorable senators will remember that the matter was referred to in the third report of the Standing Committee onRegulations and Ordinances. 
The great bulk of the regulations made under Commonwealth acts are governed by section. 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1904-1934, which reads:- 
Where an act confers power to make regulations, all regulations made accordingly shall, unless the contrary intention appears - 
be notified in the  Gazette; 
take effect from the date of notifica tion, or from a later date specified in the regulations; 
be laid before each House of the Parliament within fifteen sitting days of that House after the makingof the regulations. 
But if either House of the Parliament passes a resolution of which notice has been given at any time within fifteen sitting days after such regulations have been laid before such House disallowing any regulation such regulation shall thereupon cease to have effect. 
For many years it has been the practice in exceptional cases to make regulations which are to be deemed to have come into operation as from a date prior to the date of their notification in the  Gazette.  For the most part, those regulations have conferred benefits upon the persons affected ; for example, the granting of increments or allowances to various classes of officers, but not for the purpose of prejudicially affecting existing rights or of imposing liabilities as from some past time. Some time ago, however, a wireless regulation was made which purported to reduce, as from a past date, the payments due to certain broadcasting stations from the revenue received from licence-fees. This regulation was considered by the High Court in the  Broadcasting  case and a majority decided against its validity. The part of that regulation which was particularly challenged in the High Court read as follows: - 
This regulation shall be deemed to have commenced on 1st November, 1927. 
This date was long prior to the notification of the regulation in the  Gazette.  The Government considers that it is desirable that a limited power should be given to make retrospective regulations, and it is proposed to amend section 10 of the 1904 act in this direction. The proposed amendment expressly provides that this power to make retrospective regulations is not to be exercised if the regulations would prejudicially affect the rights of any person - other than the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth - or impose additional liabilities upon him. This amendment will be found in sub-section 2 of proposed new section 48. This is so very definite that I shall read it for the information of honorable senators - (2.) Regulations shall not he expressed to take effect from a date before the date of notification in any case where, if the regulations so took effect - 
the rights of a person (other than the Commonwealth or an authority of the Common wealth) existing at the date of notification, would be affected in a manner prejudicial to that person; and 
liabilities would be imposed on any person (other than the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth) in respect of anything done or omitted to be done before the date of notification, and where, in any regulations, any provision is made in contravention of this sub-section, that provision shall be void and of no effect. 
In addition to the granting of this power to make retrospective regulations in certain circumstances in future, the Government has decided to validate such of the retrospective regulations as may be affected by the decision in the  Broadcasting  case, but which did not prejudicially affect rights. It is not intended, however, that this provision should affect the rights declared by the High Court in the  Broadcasting  case, and provision has been made accordingly in clause 14 of the bill. 
Another aspect of the regulationmaking power is dealt with in the proposed new section 48, under sub-section 5 of which regulations will be deemed to have been automatically disallowed in the event of a resolution for their disallowance not being withdrawn or otherwise disposed of within fifteen sitting days after notice of a resolution has been given. That has very little reference, or is of very little interest, to this chamber, because, as a matter of fact, motions for the disallowance of a regulation are given precedence; in other words they have to be dealt with at once. But in the House of Representatives it often happens that notice of disallowance is given; but it remains on the notice-paper and nothing is done about it. This regulation automatically provides that if nothing be done within fifteen sitting days the regulation will be disallowed. 
Finally, there are several minor and consequential amendments concerning which it does not appear to be necessary to give any explanation at this stage. 
The Government has not been unmindful of the discussion which took place when this bill was previously before the Senate. An amendment was tabled by an honorable senator to provide for certain precautions, as it was thought, in connexion with the issue of regulations; or to put it loosely, requiring that a regulation, before being made, should be certified by some officer of the Attorney-General's Department. As a matter of fact, at the time when this matter was" under discussion the subject of a closer scrutiny of regulations by the Attorney-General's Department was receiving attention. The result is that now all regulations which are to be promulgated must be submitted to the AttorneyGeneral's Department. This work has been allotted among officers of the AttorneyGeneral's Department, and departments which make regulations must present them to the Attorney-General's Department, where they are examined by officials who have specialized in particular phases of this work. 
That is so; in this respect the Government has yielded to the wise representations made by the honorable senator. 
Because it is unnecessary. The validity of a measure is not advanced one iota by affirming that it has been examined by legal authorities. In the long run, the courts will determine whether or not a regulation is  ultra vires;  but I can assure the Senate that every precaution will be taken to see thatall regulations made are within the authority given by the act under which they purport to have been made. I hope that this assurance will satisfy those honorable senators who offered opposition to the bill last session, and that the practice instituted at the express request of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  will allay their scruples. I have outlined the general purport of the bill which I commend to the Senate as a measure that will be of great assistance to every practising lawyer, to members of Parliament, and also to the general public. 
 Having given some studyto the bill, and having listened attentively to the speech of the Minister introducing it  (Senator Brennan),  it seems to me that its passage is desirable, although I admit that as usual there is, in the legal phraseology employed, much that I do not understand, but I am satisfied that the provisions of the bill are an improvement on existing conditions. Therefore my colleague and I shall not offer any opposition to its passage. There is, however, one provision about which I should like some information. Proposed new section 50 reads - 
Wherean act confers power to make regulations, the repeal of any regulations which have been made under the act shall not, unless the contrary intention appears in the act or regulations effecting the repeal - 
affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced ... as if the repealing act or regulation had not been passed or made. 
It seems to  me  that the effect of the disallowance of a regulation should not be quite the same as that of its repeal, because one has been the law, whereas the other is the law only pending its approval by Parliament. I do not know if there is anything in my objection, but I should like the Minister to explain the difference in the two sots of circumstances if he can. 
. -I  acknowledge the consideration shown by the Government in not rushing this measure through at the end of last session as it might have done. I appreciate the courtesy shown to the Senate, and Iam pleased now to have an opportunity to express my views concerning this bill. I should prefer a. little more time for its consideration, but I do not think that any very useful purpose would be served by delaying its passage on that account, because it is not necessary to discuss minutely all the provisions. Listening to the speech of the Minister  (Senator Brennan),  one would not, I think, realize that the bill contains simply one test issue. In its present form, apart from one section and one portion of another section, it has been approved by the Senate. Honorable gentlemen will, no doubt, recall what has happened in connexion with this measure. When it was discussed last year in committee in this chamber, I succeeded in having inserted an amendment relating to the certifying of regulations and ordinances by an authorized legal officer. That amendment was struck out in the House of Representatives, and the bill, as amended was returned to the Senate, which insisted on its own amendment. Accordingly, the bill was sent back to the House of Representatives and there was laid aside. The action of the Government seemed to me to be inconsistent, and I said so at the time. I failed, to see why a clause which, relatively was innocuous, should be regarded as so important as to justify the dropping of the bill. I realized, of course, that there was behind this action of the Government a wider issue which it is my intention to put before the Senate as clearly as possible this afternoon.It relates to the trial of strength which, we are all aware, has been continuing for a long time between a. majority of members of the Senate and the Executive power. 
It concerns the position of Parliament in relation to the making of regulations by the Executive, a practice which has increased enormously of late years. The majority of members in this chamber realize that the Senate's Regulations and Ordinances Committee does not act from personal motives or with party bias. Its solepurpose is to try to safeguard the interests of the Senate and general public, by perusing regulations that are promulgated by the Executive and submitting recommendations to the Senate as to their correctness or validity. I assure honorable senators that the duties of the committee are not very amusing. Nor are they light. As a result of its recommendations, the Senate has rejected at least one  regulation and debated the validity of a number of others. The work that is done by the committee seems to me to be very useful. I quite understand, of course, that any government is not pleased to have its mistakes disclosed, because, the ministerial head of a department must accept responsibility for mistakes that are made by departmental officers. The work done by the committee is valuable and should have the full support of the Senate, unless it can be shown that it is in some way detrimental to the public interest. The bill, now before the Senate is practically identical with that which passed through the Senate last session, with the exception that it dees not contain the proposed new section which was inserted by this chamber. 
When first I submitted my amendment, it was carried by 20 votes to 9. When the measure was returned from the House of Representatives which had struck out the proposed new section, it was re-inserted by the Senate committee by 13 votes to 12. I was surprised that no reason has been given by the Government for its refusal to accept the amendment. The AttorneyGeneral, said that it was unacceptable to the Government, which of course, was not argument. It was simply the use of the weight of members in the House of Representatives to assert the will of the Executive over the Senate. I am essentially a " parliament man ". I believe that Parliament has its proper place and that it should have full" opportunity to express its opinion and to assert its rights in respect of regulations made by the Executive. I am still of the opinion, which I expressed previously, and which I suggest, was confirmed by the action of the Government in dropping the bill, that the real purpose of the measure is to restrict the scope and functions of the Seriate Regulations and Ordinance Committee with a view to giving the Executive fuller power, and to over-ride the Senate. Is this an important bill or is it not? Was it not introduced originally as a result of action taken by the Senate with regard to certain regulations issued by the Executive ? Perhaps, I shall he permitted to cite an instance of what I regard as the undue exercise of this Executive power in connexion with the making of regulations or ordinances. I read in the Adelaide  Advertiser,  the principal daily newspaper in my State, on the 7th August, the following report from its Canberra correspondent - 
Local agitation lias resulted in the withdrawal of what were considered by the dissatisfied, to be the objectionable features of the Unlawful Assemblies Ordinance. What gave most offence locally, was the special power taken to proclaim any part of the Federal Capital Territory, and presumably the whole, a prohibited area within which it would be unlawful, under a penalty of £100, for more than 20 people to gather to discuss public affairs. 
This afternoon the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  in replying, to a question on this subject, said that the ordinance affected only a very small %rea. If honorable senators look at the ordinance - by the way it lias not yet been laid on the table of the Senate, but can be seen in the  Gazette  - they will find that " the proclaimed place " means the area described in the schedule and includes also any place specified by the regulations to be a proclaimed place; hi other words the Attorney-General may by regulation prohibit public assembly in any part of the Federal Capital Territory, an area of SOO square miles! The. comment of the  Advertiser  correspondent continued - 
The more reasonable of those opposed to the ordinance agreed that the deliberations of Parliament should be  protected  from disorder and from  unauthorized  gatherings, but the ordinance gave the Government power to prevent a public  meeting  being held on any pretext in any part of Canberra- 
And, I think, in any part of the Federal Capital Territory - 
The promulgation of an ordinance which has had to be vitally amended because of public protest, cannot be considered good electioneering tactics, lt has been said that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson),  on whose behalf the ordinance was issued, did not know anything about it till it was gazetted. 
I do not know whether this is a fact; I am only quoting from the published report of a newspaper correspondent who is considered to be good enough to represent in Canberra the leading South Australian paper. However, I should like to know whether the Minister for the Interior was aware of the ordinance before it was gazetted; it would seem strange to me that such a statement should be made if there were no foundation, for it. This report continued - 
The whole episode recalls the strong protests which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has made repeatedly against the extension of executive power by ordinances, which in practice, are put into effect without parliamentary sanction. Many of these ordinances are framed in terms which would not pass any parliament and the penalties invariably are fantastic in their severity, compared with penalties for similar offences made under, common law.  A fine of £100 for meeting within about 400 yards of Parliament House to discuss public affairs is&gt; an excellent example. 
The evil of arbitrary government by regulations and ordinances which arc ineffectively policed by Parliament, or not policed at all, is a growing one at Canberra. Parliament, by acquiescing in this system, is sanctioning a breaking down of its own authority, and the transfer of its powers to the Executive, which in  view  of the long absences of most Ministers from Canberra during the recesses, means a transfer of power from the elected representatives of the people to officials responsible to no elected body . . . 
It is an evil which must inevitably increase at Canberra as the years pass, unless Ministers can be induced to administer their departments from the Seat of Government during the long recesses. 
I was particularly interested in this newspaper statement because it was obvious that this matter was directly linked up with the matter of regulations with which we are now dealing in this measure ; and I wondered what had happened to cause the promulgation of this ordinance. Had there been a riot in Canberra? Had. any one fired a revolver, or had there been bloodshed? Had any one been knocked on the head? So far as I can make out nothing of that kind occurred. I understand that a gathering took place in front of Parliament House with the object of expressing the views of the unemployed and their sympathizers, but that no violence took place at that meeting. Yet the Government has found it necessary, by ordinance, to assume powers similar to those which were found necessary in Melbourne in 1917, in the face of a really difficult situation, and during a period of great agitation. I put it to honorable senators that an action which might be applicable in war time in so densely a populated centre as Melbourne cannot be regarded as being essential in a peaceloving place like Canberra, with its 9,000 inhabitants, in a time of peace. I say frankly and deliberately that this is an instance of excessive use of executive authority. Since I have been a member of this Parliament, I have never shown myself to be opposed to firm action being taken by the Executive when, in my opinion, it was necessary, but I do not think it is necessary to use a steam hammer to crush a walnut, a3 the Government attempted to do by means of this ordinance. 
First of all the ordinance defines the proclaimed places and these include any place so specified by a regulation. Thus, by regulation, this ordinance can be applied to the whole of the Federal Capital Territory. 
 But  why? Because such a. provision involved an excessive use of power by the Executive and was not abrogated until the Government realized that it was hopelessly excessive and contrary to public opinion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  -  Senator Duncan-Hughes  may continue. 
Is it necessary for me,  Mr. Deputy President,  to speak to the point of order? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT.- No. 
The ordinance then refers to unlawful assemblies - 3. - (1) It shall not be lawful for any number of persons exceeding 20 to meet or be assembled in the open air in any part of the proclaimed place for any unlawful purpose, and any person, (not being an officer of the Commonwealth acting iS the discharge of the duties of his office) who is present at any such meeting or assembly shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: One hundred pounds or imprisonment for twelve months. 
For. the purposes of the last preceding sub-section, persons shall be deemed to have met, or to be assembled, for an unlawful purpose, if they, or any of them, while assembled, do anything unlawful, or make known their grievances, or discuss public affairs or matters of public interest, or  consi-  der, prepare or present any petition . . . 
To me that seems to be a very harmless thing to do. "Daily honorable senators have an opportunity in this Chamber to present a petition, although I do not remember any senator taking advantage of that privilege. Such action is regarded as harmless. Nevertheless, under this ordinance persons are  prevented  from presenting -  . . any petition, memorial, complaint, remonstrance, declaration, or other address to  His  Majesty, or to the Governor-General, or to both Houses or either House of the Parliament, or to any Minister or officer of the Commonwealth, for the repeal or enactment of any law, 'or for the alteration of matters of State. 
In the light of this prohibition I am justified in asking what we are here for if we are not to be petitioned and to be approached either as Members of Parliament, or as officers of Parliament, or' as Ministers? What are we here for if it is not to have matters of public interest brought to our notice? The ordinance proclaims that if anybody does any of these things an officer of  the police  force may arrest him without warrant, and again the penalty is a fine of £100 or imprisonment for six months. The ordinance further empowers the AttorneyGeneral to make regulations not inconsistent with the ordinance. The whole of this matter, I submit, is linked up with the wider subject of the framing of regulations. Here is a definite instance of grossly excessive use of executive power to promulgate a' drastic ordinance, which the Government was eventually required to whittle away to nothing. In this instance the Executive was able to put the ordinance as first drafted into force, when in fact nothing so drastic and far reaching was justified. 
I do not wish to labour this matter. I quite understand and quite approve of the necessity for the Executive taking firm action on occasions. At certain times in the past I consider it could have acted more firmly than it did, but this is a definite instance of grossly excessive power being taken by executive action. The power was not exercised, but actually any police officer would have been quite within his authority if he had acted under this ordinance. In this instance, the Executive asserted excessive power in order to prevent people from meeting. Do honorable senators realize that if instead of a party holding its meeting inside this building, its members, either on account of the warmth indoors or the pleasantness of conditions outside, met on the lawns outside, and any of them spoke on any matter of public interest, they would all be guilty of participating in an unlawful assembly? 
Yes, and that the Governor-General might be deemed guilty of an offence. My final point is this: We have to* remember that the people of Canberra have no vote, and, therefore, it is not unnatural  that they should be anxious to express their views and criticize what is done by the Government, more than are the people  resident  in other parts of Australia. In the past I have done what I could, to secure the franchise for the people of Canberra, and it was ray suggestion that a person coming to live in Canberra should remain on the electoral roll for the district from which he came unless and until he got on the roll here. While the people of Canberra have no vote, it is more important that they should retain the right to express their views on public questions. I point to this ordinance to illustrate why there should be some supervision of the way in which the powers of the Executive are used. I agree with  Senator  Marwick's  interjection that if it is the intention of the Government to have every regulation perused by officers of the Crown Law Department, that should be specifically laid down in the bill. That is all that I ask. The present Ministers may go out of office and the heads of the department may change, and if there is  no specific rule that the officers of the department are obliged to endorse ali regulations as I suggest, the safeguard which the Minister has indicated will disappear. In committee, I propose to move  i  the re-insertion of the amendment which the Senate accepted in the previous bill to the effect that before regulations are promulgated they shall be certified by the Solicitor-General or some other authorized officer as being not in excess of the powers conferred by the act under which they purport to have been made. On a previous occasion the Leader of the Seriate said that this was a dangerous proposal, and that both the AttorneyGeneral and the Solicitor-General concurred in that opinion. There is no danger whatsoever in it; on the contrary, there is a safeguarding of the interests of the general public. However, the matter at issue is whether the Executive is to have its way in this matter, or whether the Senate will stand firmly  for  its rights. 
.- I have little to add to what has already been so ably' expressed by  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  I view this matter seriously, mainly because the bill appears to be a deliberate attempt on the part of the Government to flout the expressed will" of the Senate. Simply because the committee accepted an amendment by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  with which the Government, did not agree, the bill was dropped, and now, after a  few  months have passed, another bill which does not embody the amendment accepted by the Senate and is unchanged otherwise, is brought before this chamber. I shall vote for the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  in order to show my disapproval of the Government's action in attempting to filch from honorable senators their undoubted rights. 
As a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, I am pleased that its action has caused the Government to alter the bill from the form in which it was originally introduced. Certain amendments with which I agree have been embodied in the measure; I refer especially to that dealing with retrospec tive regulations. Proposed new section 48 (2) provides that - 
Regulations shall not tie expressed to take effect from a date before the date of notification in any case where, if the regulations so took effect- 
the rights of a. person (other than the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth) existing at . the date of notification, would bc affected in a manner prejudicial to that person; 
When this matter was before the Senate on a previous occasion, it was pointed out. that certain workers in London, who had been paid sums of money, might be called upon to refund such moneys unless the regulations were made retrospective. To the extent that the present bill removes the danger of retrospective operation prejudicial to the interests of individuals, it is a step in the right direction. 
This afternoon I asked a question relating to what was described in a newspaper report as " naked Hitlerism " in the Federal Capital Territory. The answer given to me by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  suggested that I was wrong, and ail so that the son of William Morris Hughes was wrong. Having listened to  Senator DuncanHughes,  I realize that the Leader of the Senate misled me in that he omitted something which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has since mentioned. It is amazing that such an ordinance should have been promulgated by any government in .a British community; it certainly justifies the caption " Hitlerism." As a result of the publicity given to this subject in the newspapers of the Commonwealth, the Government decided to amend the ordinance, so that it shall apply only to places within 100 yards of Parliament House. Some time ago, at the request of the unemployed of Canberra, I agreed to address a meeting outside Parliament House. On that occasion, my action was not illegal; but, should  I  again address such a gathering, I could be arrested without warrant, irrespective of whether the assembly were for the purpose of airing a grievance, preparing a petition or memorial, or advocating the planting of more roses and tulips in the Parliament House grounds. Were I to be arrested, it would not be my first such experience, for I have been arrested on numerous occasions for asserting the right of free speech. 
I am proud of my record. I regret that  Senator Pearce  did not give to me a full explanation; but, unfortunately, that is a habit with leaders of governments. Evidently, they think that some political advantage accrues to them, by withholding information from others. I am pleased to know that certain officers in the Attorney-General's Department have been specially deputed to study regulations and ordinances with a view to deciding whether or not they come within the ambit of the acts under which, they purport to he made. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee can take credit to itself for having forced the present reactionary Government to adopt that reform. 
, -  in .reply  - I shall endeavour to confine my remarks more to the provisions of the bill than some honorable members who have spoken have done. I point out to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that section 50, about which he inquired* is a safeguarding provision. It sets out that legal proceedings which have been commenced may be proceeded with, even though, in respect of future actions the act has been repealed. The provisions mentioned by the honorable gentleman merely apply to the disallowance of a regulation the same rule as now applies to the repeal of a regulation or of a law. That, is entirely beneficial to the average citizen; it imposes no new liability on him. 

 Senator Duncan-Hughes said that the power to make regulations should be restricted as far as possible. Even supposing the honorable senator is right, what has that to do with an act which deals with the interpretation of existing laws and regulations? 
The only duty, of such an officer is to certify that the proposed regulation comes within the regulation-making power of the act under which it is made. We are asked by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  to believe that if an officer of the Attorney-General's Department certifies that a regulation is in conformity with the act under which it is framed some new safeguard will be provided. Every proposed regulation is referred to the Attorney-General's Department for drafting. 
Many of them are merely formal. Although it is somewhat irrelevant, I did not wish to ignore the fact that certain views on this subject were expressed by honorable senators when a similar measure was last before the Senate. I should like -the Senate to realize that, although the Government cannot accept the views put forward by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  it has gone as far as it can without providing that some solemn declaration shall be made by an officer of the Attorney-General's Department. The honorable senator complained that no reason was given by the AttorneyGeneral for rejecting the amendment made in this chamber, but the honorable  Senator will  surely realize that had his proposal been adopted the matter would not have been carried further. 
He considered that it did not achieve what it sought to achieve, and therefore was unacceptable. 
If, is clear that even an archangel could not persuade  Senator Grant  to alter his opinion.  Senator Duncan-Hughes*  who says that he is " a Parliament man " has gone so far as to say that this measure, as amended, is aimed at reducing the powers of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, but the honorable senator is not entitled to make such an inaccurate statement. He knows that I was the  chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinance Committee before he was appointed to that position, and that I am one of those who view with the gravest alarm the growth of " the new despotism ". But what has that to do with this bill, which provides how acts of Parliament and. the regulations framed under such acts shall be interpreted?  Senator Duncan-Hughes  read, with a number of impressive pauses, the provisions of an ordinance passed recently concerning the holding of public meetings in the vicinity of this Parliament House. I remind the honorable senator that that is an ordinance and not a regulation. The only way in which laws governing the Federal Capital Territory can be made is by ordinance. Such ordinances are framed by those controlling the Federal Capital Territory. 
That is so. There is the power to make regulations. 
I do not think there is any such provision in the ordinance. 
-I remind  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that such regulationmaking power is given by Parliament. That is the first assertion of the powers of Parliament. Moreover, one House of Parliament - it does not require an act of Parliament - can disallow a regulation, and if either House of Parliament does not deal with a regulation within fifteen days of notice of motion to disallow it automatically becomes inoperative. That applies particularly to the House of Representatives, because in the Senate a motion to disallow must take precedence of other business. The honorable senator who directed attention to the law concerning unlawful assemblies, passed by the Federal Parlia ment when it was sitting in Melbourne, apparently overlooked the fact that the similar legislation applies to the Victorian Parliament House in which the Commonwealth Parliament functioned for many years. 
Because of the conditions prevailing in Canberra, steps were taken to prevent any interference with the work of Parliament. When meetings have been held outside of the doors of Parliament House, a person standing" in the King's Hall could listen to two voices - one within a chamber of this Parliament and another on the steps of Parliament House. The Government considers that this condition of affairs should not be tolerated. Whether the ordinance went further than was necessary is quite beside the question; the work of Parliament should be free from any outside interruption in accordance with the best traditions of parliamentary government.  Senator Grant  then entered the arena and said that the Government wishes to flout the will of the Senate and * to reduce its power and influence. The Leader of  the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  who has been a member of this chamber since the inception of federation, has always shown a strong desire to uphold the rights of the Senate. 
Has the Leader of the Senate ever shown any desire to reduce the rights of the Senate to a cipher? As for myself, I have even been accused of being a States righter, because I always endeavour to uphold the rights of the Senate so that it may exercise its constitutional powers. 
Question resolved in the affirmative 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 12 agreed to. 
Clause 13 - 
After section 40 of the principal aat the following headings and sections are inserted: - 
I move- 
That after proposed new section . 47 the following new section be inserted: - "47a. - (1.) Where an act confers power to make regulations, no regulation shall be made accordingly, unless the Attorney-General or the Solicitor-General, or some officer of the Attorney-General's Department thereto authorized in writing by the Attorney-General or the Solicitor-General, certifies that the regulation, if made, would not bc in excess of the power conferred by the act under which it purports to be made. (2.) Any regulation made in contravention of this section shall bc void and of no effect. (3.) The notification in the  Gazette  of any regulation made after the commencement of this section shall be  prima facie  evidence that a certificate was duly given in respect of that regulation in accordance with sub-section (1.) of this Section. 
Because the Senate insisted upon the insertion o£ this provision in the previous bill the measure was dropped. I do not propose to make a long speech in reply to the statements of the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan),  I recall that he was for a time  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee; in fact, I am glad to say that it was largely at my instigation that he was prevailed upon to accept the position, and an excellent  chairman  lie proved himself to he. I feel that if he were still  chairman  of the committee, we might possibly find him voting with us on this matter to-day. Certainly we found that our general views on such matters, when we were members of the committee, were very similar. Mine have remained constant; they are to-day what they were in the past ; so I hope that the honorable senator in his heart is constant too. The honorable senator stated that I professed to be a parliament man. I sincerely hope that he does not raise any doubt on that matter. 
I hope that in the years that I have been in Parliament that has been made abundantly clear. The Assistant Minister said that we would not advance the validity of a regulation one iota by the certificate of a legal adviser. I dispute that assertion. I contend that by ensuring that a certain legal formula has to be complied with before a regulation can be promulgated we advance the probability of it being in legal form. 
My purpose in insisting on  thi3  amendment is to ensure that the regulations have been supervised by a legal officer. Last year I was able to inform honorable senators that one-half of the regulations, which were then promulgated, had not been scrutinised by any legal officer. That statement was made by the SolicitorGeneral himself; admittedly most of the regulations were unimportant. In my opinion it is undesirable that such a position should be permitted to recur in future. If my amendment be accepted honorable senators will be certain that at least one legal officer will have seen any proposed regulations and certified that they are not hopelessly  ultra vires  the act under which they purport to have been made. 
I have already plainly stated my views upon this matter and I do not propose to add anything to them. 
This amendment is similar to that which I supported last year. That this proposed new sub-section should be inserted, in the bill is of utmost importance. It is interesting to note that at the end of 1936 there were in existence 150 acts under which statutory rules had been made; these rules are still in force. In 1935, 136 statutory rules were passed; in 1936, 166 statutory rules; and up to the 25th August, 1937, 91 statutory rules. Some of them contained as many as 150 and 200 regulations. I previously stressed that it was desirable, especially in view of comments made by certain judges, that this Senate should do everything in its power to ensure that regulations, which form  a  most important part of our law, approach as closely to perfection as possible. It is disappointing to any member of Parliament to read of a decision of the High Court declaring a regulation  ultra vires. 
If the honorable senator will consider the cp ses which are heard by the High Court- 
That is not the point. We know that in the  Broadcasting  case the High Court declared that a regulation was  ultra vires.  When a select committee inquired into the matter, a number of similar cases was cited. The fact must not bc lost sight of that people do not test thousands and thousands of regulations because, even if they did obtain a verdict, they would still lose financially. The defendants in the  Broadcasting  case had that experience. 
When we propose to build a parliament house we obtain a certificate from an architect. In my opinion it is fitting and advisable that regulations should be sent to the AttorneyGeneral's Department in order that they may be examined by an expert. In this way alone can honorable senators satisfy themselves of the validity of the regulations, and ensure that they do not exceed the powers conferred upon the Executive. I was gratified to learn that the Government does, now, as a matter of departmental routine, send the proposed regulations to the department for scrutiny and, if necessary, for amendment. If that be a wise precaution, I fail to see why the Government objects to a sub-section to that effect being inserted in the bill. 
The committee being composed of laymen, would not be able to give a sufficiently legal opinion. 
I dispute that statement. 
In the interest of good government the committee is anxious that proposed regulations be submitted to legal experts. 
pointed out, the Regulations and Ordinances Committee must not assume the functions of legal experts; but it is only right and proper protection for this Senate, to have the opinion of an expert, who has thoroughly investigated the matter, that regulations are in order. The Minister said, in effect, to  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that certification by a legal expert would not in any way enhance the validity of a regulation in the opinion of the High Court. That is hardly a fair statement of the position. It certainly would not enhance the validity of the regulation, nor does the certificate of an expert conveyancer who finds that an old system title, in his opinion, is one which should be accepted by the prospective purchaser or lender, make that title valid. What he may say about it does not alter the existing state of that title; hut at least it does give a reasonable sense of security or protection to the prospective purchaser or mortgagee. Similar protection in respect of regulations is all that  Senator Duncan-Hughes'  amendment proposes. In the circumstances surely the Minister will not deny to the Senate when confronted with a regulation, a sense of security similar to that given to the mortgagee or to the purchaser of an old system title. The analogy is a perfect one and I suggest to the Minister  (Senator Brennan),  who is an experienced legal practitioner, and to his colleague  (Senator A. J. McLachlan),  who probably has done more conveyancing than any other legal member of the Senate, that the amendment gives to the Senate just that sense of protection to which it is entitled. 
-I have  much  more respect for the opinion of the SolicitorGeneral than, apparently, has the Minister. I know, of course, that in his State he does not encounter the difficulties experienced by members of the legal profession in  my  State because South Australia has the advantage of the Torrens title, whereas in New South Wales very many properties are still under the old system title. 
They would feel much safer if they bad the certificate of a competent legal authority.I repeat that the analogy is a perfect one, and I do not think that by accepting the amendment the Government would be giving anything away. 
I feel thatI should say something by way of answer to the remarks of  Senator Abbott  because, being a member of the legal profession, his views might carry more weight with lay members of the Senate than if he were a layman himself.He has sought to show an analogy between  the advice of a lawyer as to the correctness of a. title to property and. the certificate which would be required of the Solicitor-General if the amendment were carried. If the analogy is perfect, I merely say that it operates against the honorable senator. Before a man lends money against property he sees that the title is correct, and realizing the folly of a layman attempting to be his own lawyer, he seeks the advice of a member of the legal profession. What will happen with respect to ordinances or regulations? Is it assumed that always they are drawn by laymen? Surely  Senator Abbott  knows that all regulations or ordinances having far-reaching effect, or which are technical in construction, are drawn by experienced legal officers in the AttorneyGeneral's Department. It is true, of course, that a considerable number of regulations merely alter dates or determine other trifling matters, and it would be farcical to require that they he reviewed by a legal authority in order to test their validity; but it is true to say that all ordinances of a far-reaching nature which involve legal questions are drawn by one duly qualified, and indeed, an expert lawyer,and are reviewed by a higher legal authority.  Senator DuncanHughes's  amendment will not carry the matter any further than it stands to-day. As to the suggestion that in this matter the Senate should insist on having its way, I repeat that Iam an upholder of the rights of the Senate, but I do not forget that this is a bicameralParliament. Therefore the Senate has no right to insist that its decision must prevail in respect of matters in dispute, as in this instance. The views put forward in the House of Representatives also should be respected. 
SenatorMARWICK (Western Australia) [5.12].  -  The amendment is really a test between the authority of the Executive and the Parliament. I hope that in the division the majority of honorable senators will be on the side of the Parliament. We have considered this matter on two previous occasions'. The Minister  (Senator Brennan),  in his second-reading speech, implied that the amendment which was objected to by the House of Representatives had been " tabled." He might have said that it had been adopted on two occasions by the Senate. I sincerely trust that it will pass again. Recently an ordinance was published in the Commonwealth  Gazette,  and within a few days, strong objection having been taken to it, an amended ordinance was issued. We have had the assurance of the Minister that infuture all ordinances will hestrictly scrutinized by the AttorneyGeneral's Department. The amendment merely proposes that specific provision to that effect shall be included in the bill. I hope that it will be carried. 
.- The Minister in  charge of the bill  (Senator Brennan)  rose immediately after  Senator Abbott,  for the express purpose of countering the affect which the remarks of  Senator Abbott,  as a lawyer, might have on the lay members of the committee. By so doing, he admitted the weight that attaches to the opinion of a man of legal training. All that the amendment asks is that all ordinances or regulations issued shall boar the hallmark of the SolicitorGeneral's approval. They should be as water-tight legally as it is possible to make them. If the amendment be carried the people will have some assurance that  any  regulations or ordinances promulgated are legally correct, and do not exceed the authority given by the act under which they are made. 
The result of the division is " Ayes " 14; " Noes " 14. The question is therefore resolved in the negative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 14 agreed to. 
Schedule and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General if his attention hasbeen directed to the following statement which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of to-day :  - 
A meeting held last night at the Bondi School of Arts, under the auspices of the Waverley branch of the Communist party, passed a resolution pledging itself to work to defeat the Lyons Government at the federal elections and return a Labour government. 
The Mayor of Waverley (Alderman Fieldhouse) presided. 
Mr.R. McWilliams said that the Communist party did not desire to have candidates because they believed there would be a swing towards labour, and when the Labour partywas elected the communists would want it to function in the interests of the Communist party. 
Also, is the Minister aware that communist literature isbeing transmitted through the post office to a much greater extent than everbeforein the history of the Commonwealth, and will some action be taken to check it? 
My attention had not previously been directed to the newspaper statement which the honorable senator has read. As to the later part of his question, I understand that my colleague, the Postmaster-General, has not surrendered his right to deal with the transmission, through the post office, of subversive literature. 
Having regard to the Government's recent withdrawal of prosecutions launchedagainst the Communist party, is not this alleged sudden outburst of communist friendliness towards the Labour party merely a  quid pro quo? 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether it is a fact that the Government has decided to prohibit the export of iron ore to Japan from Koolan Island, Yampi Sound? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. 
Can the Minister in Charge of Development inform me whether  Sir David  Rivett, when inquiring in Great Britain and Europe a few months ago into the project for the extraction of oil from coal, obtained any information- relative to the production of fuel oil from vegetable matter? If so, will it be made available to the Senate? 
I shall make inquiries, and furnish the information to the honorable senator. 
I ask the Minister in Charge of Development whether the Government has received from the  President  of the Senate  (Senator Lynch),  who unfortunately is temporarily in hospital in Perth, a lengthy and interesting communication containing a proposal for the assistance of gold prospecting in Western Australia by the creation of a fund to be established by the Commonwealth and State governments and mining companies, from which advances can be made for prospecting purposes, such advances to be repaid from the resultant gold recoveries?. If so, will he urge the Government to give it early and favorable consideration, as it would lead to the profitable employment of many experienced miners who at present, for health reasons, are excluded from deep mining in Kalgoorlie, and would incidentally be of great profit to the State and the Commonwealth? 
I have not seen the letter to which the honorable senator refers. Many interesting communications have been received from the  President  with regard to assistance for the gold-mining industry. Any such proposal would have to be on an Australiawide basis. It may be possible to do something on the lines suggested in connexion with proposals for the assistance of metalliferous mining, which will later be submitted to Cabinet. 
I ask the MinisterinCharge of Development whether it is a fact that the Government of Tasmania refused to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research permission to use Clarke Island to experiment with a method for the destruction of rabbits by a virus, which it intends to introduce into Australia? If so, has the department negotiated with the Government of South Australia for the use of Wardang Island? 
The Government of Tasmania did refuse the use of the island for that purpose. 
Offhand I am unable to give the specific reason; but I understand that, although the virus had been thoroughly tested, the Government of Tasmania was afraid that the experiments with it would endanger certain other animal life on the island. Offers of the use of islands for these experimental purposes have been made by various persons in South Australia, and these are being considered by officers of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior whether the Government will take steps to prevent an influx of Southern Europeans into Australia and do everything possible to maintain the present percentage of 98 per cent, of pure British stock in the Commonwealth, in order to maintain the high standard of living which Australians enjoy in comparison with other countries? 
 by leave  - Before setting out in broad general terms the attitude of the Government on alien white migration, it is necessary, in view of misleading statements recently made and also of the misunderstanding in the minds ofthe publicon the question, to make the position clear. A few figures will help to this end. For the four calendar years 1925 to 1928 inclusivei the net gain to this country by white alien migrants - that is to say, the excess of arrivals over departures - was more than 35,000. The annual average net gain was nearly 9,000. 
For the last two financial years, 1935-36 and 1936-37, the net influx of white aliens has been 2,599 and 3,234 respectively, or about one-third of the pre-depression numbers. These figures show quite clearly that what has been described as a " heavy influx " of foreigners is nothing of the kind. What happened was that British migration not only ceased, 'but that the tide turned the other way. More British people left Australia than came into it. For the seven years 1930 to 1936 inclusive, we lost nearly 30,000 people of British stock, due to the excess of departures over arrivals. In the financial year just closed, the net loss was 1,248, Of these about two-thirds left in 1930 and 1931. Taken in conjunction with the heavy fall in the birthrate and the disturbed state of the world, this discloses a position which must give every Australian food for very serious thought. 
Turning now to a review of white alien immigration, the first point that needs special emphasis is that every alien immigrant must pay his own passage. No assistance of any kind is given by either Commonwealth or State governments to such immigrants. Further, every white alien not guaranteed employment is required to have £200 capital. Those who have such a guarantee must, have £50 capital. The only alien migrants admitted without capital are the wife and children of the migrant or of a person already in Australia, provided that their future maintenance is assured. 
Before issuing a permit - without which  no  alien can land - the Minister must be satisfied in every case that the newcomers would engage in trades and occupations in which there is opportunity for their absorption without detriment to Australian workers. In this connexion reports are obtained from the policein the various States on each individual case, and when a report is adverse a permit is refused. 
An analysis of the figures shows that of the 227aliens on the  Otranto,  about whom disparaging comments have been made, 107 were women and children coming out to join their breadwinners, who hitherto had been obliged to remit a large part of their earnings to maintain them. Such family reunions are surely desirable from the humanitarian as well as the economic aspect. A further 32 were former residents of Australia returning from a holiday abroad. Fifteen were  en route  to New Zealand or elsewhere, leaving only 73 new non-dependants - less than one-third of the total allien migrants on the vessel. 
Before a white alien can obtain a permit to come to Australia he  must  have a medical certificate, showing him to be in sound health. The doctor on board ship must immediately report any cases of sickness or physical defects generally which come under his notice during the voyage. Finally, the new arrivals must pass our boarding medical  officers  before leaving the ship. 
I repeat that the number of white aliens arriving here is only about onethird of the pre-depression figures. It is said that an unduly large proportion of Italians are among the new arrivals, but  the actual figures show that while in 1935-36 the net migration of Italians was 1,447, in 1936-37 it was only 730, or about one-half of the previous year's figures. 
The policy of the Commonwealth Government, briefly stated, has been and is - 
To safeguard the employment and living standards of its own people - this it regards as its paramount duty - and 
Subject to this to encourage British migration. 
In the five-year period 1925 to 1929, the net gain to the population through British migration was over 132,000, an average addition of more than 26,000 a year. In the next seven years, 1930 to 1936 inclusive, the net los3 of persons of British stock was nearly 30,000. This loss of British migrants from Australia still continues, despite the provision of assisted passages from the British Isles. In the financial year just closed the net loss was 1,248. In the face of these figures, the fall in the birthrate and the present international situation, we can hardly slam the door on the rest of the world. "We can, and do, ensure that the influx of white aliens shall not prejudice us nationally or lower our standards of living. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the mode of procedure adopted by the States when applying for funds to be used for the purpose of compounding farmers' debts under the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act? 
Is i't a fact that the Commonwealth Government has made available a total of £12.000.000 for the purpose mentioned? 
What proportion of this amount has been allocated to the State of Queensland? 
What amount (if any) has been drawn by the State of Queensland to date from such allocation ? 
What amount, if any, has been actually used for the compounding of farmers' debts in the State of Queensland? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The information isbeing obtained, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice -  1.Who is responsible for the engagement. of the staff of Australia House, London? 
How many male employees are there at Australia House? 
How many female employees are there at Australia House? 
How many of the employees are Australians? 
How many of the male employees arc returned soldiers? 
ls it a fact that the lift employees are females, and, if so, why are such jobs not given to limbless soldiers? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers: - 
The staff engaged in London for service with the High Commissioner's Office is appointed in accordance with the provisions of section 9 of the High Commissioner Act 1909.It is also the practice for a limited number of officers of the Commonwealth Public Service to be transferred temporarily to the High Commissioner's Office to fill senior positions therein. 2.Ninety. 3.Ninety-two (including five lift attendants, one cleaning superintendent, two floor polishers, and 35 cleaners). 
Males. 2(i; females, one. 
Forty-five. Of the remainder, eight officers were appointed to the staff of the High Commissioner's Office before 101.4, and six are messenger boys. 
Inquiries are being made regarding this matter. 
Whatever views honorable senators may hold on the important subjects which this motion covers, I trust that the debate will proceed calmly, although I do not Suggest that party politics should be eliminated. Having been a member of a political party for very many years, I believe that every subject we have to consider in this chamber should be studied seriously from the viewpoint of the party to which we belong. Party bitterness, however, should he eliminated in debating Australia's defence policy, which is one of the most important subjects dealt with in the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  which was read in this chamber two days ago by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce). 
In my speech, on the Address-an-Reply, I had the temerity to assume, temporarily, the role of a prophet, and to suggest that such information as we were allowed to receive in Australia through the public press in relation to the Imperial Conference, indicated that the Conference had not been a success. At the time, I was taken seriously to task by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  who stated - 
The honorable senator was among those who tried to create the impression that real danger lurks in the mission undertaken by the Australian Ministers now  visiting  London. 
Until I heard the report which the right honorable gentleman read a* few days ago, I did not think that I had stated the position so accurately. On the occasion referred to he went on to say - 
To-day, when the imperialistic tricks that Labour critics predicted have not taken place, and schemes to drag Australia at the tail of the United Kingdom have not eventuated, the honorable senator and his colleagues say that the Imperial Conference has proved a dud. Considered as a point for the coming election the conference certainly has provided a " dud " for  Senator Collings  and his party. 
The Leader of the Senate, as well as the Prime Minister, have taken full political advantage of everything that occurred at the Imperial Conference. Honorable senators will remember also that the 
Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral in this chamber  (Senator Brennan)  also had something to say about me at that time. He said that when I prepared my speeches, I always carefully concealed my real feelings, but that when I spoke impromptu, the truth came out, and there was always a declaration of disloyalty. I do not repeat those charges because I feel at all aggrieved; on the contrary, when leaders of the United Australia party and of the Country party say unpleasant things about me, I am convinced that I am fulfilling my mission as Leader of the Opposition in expounding in 'this chamber the policy of the party to which I belong. What is Labour's defence policy? 
The Leader of the Country party  (Senator Hardy)  and others who interjected with him, did not say anything which they believed to have any foundation; in fact,  Senator Hardy  has in his possession the printed declaration setting out Labour's defence policy. He knows what that policy is, although during the recent byelection in Gwydir, he stated from many platforms that Labour had no defence policy. He knew when he made it that that statement was untrue, and he knows that his interjection this afternoon also implies an untruth. 
It cannot be more mystifying than most of the speeches delivered by the Leader of the Country party. 
The composite party to which the honorable senator belongs changes its policy almost week by week. One week it favours protection, and the following week it advocates free-trade. Moreover, at nearly every election it changes its name and affiliations. The Labour party has a definite defence policy to which every member who enters this Parliament must subscribe. When he does so, it is assumed that, as an honest citizen; he intends to abide by it and support it. Labour has such an efficient organization that if any member of the party, in any Australian parliament, breaks away from its policy, the endorsement of the party is immediately withdrawn from him and he cannot, again stand for election in its name. 
I have been a keen student of the party to which the honorable senator belongs, and I have not yet seen anything approaching such. proficiency. The defence policy of the Australian Labour party provides for - 
Adequate home defence against possible foreign aggression- 
That plank of Labour's policy gives the lie direct to the statement made in the House of Representatives that the Labour party has no defence policy and is disloyal to the Empire. 
I am quoting from the defence policy of the Australian Labour party. It continues - 
Amendment of Defence Act to secure - 
Deletion of all sections relating to compulsory training and service. 
The parties now in occupation of the treasury bench have never given such a straight-out declaration of their policy. The Labour party aims at amending the Defence Act to secure also - 
Any sentence imposed by courtmartial to be subject to review by a Civil Court ; 
No offence to be created by regulation; no penalty to be imposed by regulation ; 
No employment of, or inter ference by, soldiers in industrial disputes ; 
No raising of forces for service outside the Commonwealth or participa-. tion, or promise of participation, in any future overseas war, except by decision of the people. 
I shall deal with the honorable senator's interjection before I finish my speech. The policy from which I have quoted continues - 
Manufacture of munitions of war. 
The following is adopted as a declaration of policy and in amplification thereof - 
The Australian Labour party expresses its great abhorrence of war and fascism and urges that the Commonwealth Government should endeavour toestablish andmaintain friendly relations with other nations. 
That the complete control of theproduction of munitions, and warmaterials of all kinds, should be vested entirely in the Commonwealth Government. 
That preparation, to counter any possible foreign aggression, be made by the establishment of a defence scheme commensurate with Australia's ability to maintain it and adequate for our needs, and that this be done by concentration on the following essentials: - 
Aerial defence, and the further development of commercial and civil aviation capable of conversion for defence purposes. 
The establishment of airports and depots at strategical points on the coast and inland. 
The provision of adequate stores of oil fuel, and concentration upon the production of oil from coal and/or shale: and the production of power alcohol from crops suitable for the purpose. 
The intensification of a scientific search for additional oil sources, natural and artificial, throughout the Commonwealth. 
The provision of bomb-and gasproof shelters and the means of evacuating women and children from menaced areas. 
The maintenance of naval, aerial and land forces- at an efficient standard and, in emergency, the mobilization of marine, aerial and land transport facilities. 
A national survey of all industries to discover their potential value for defence purposes. 
This policy to be financed by theoperation of Labour's financial proposals. 
That policy offers a complete answer to leather-lunged honorable senators who continually roar that the Labour party has no defence policy. The Prime Minister knows perfectly well what Labour's defence policy . is, because, with the exception of the last five or six years, he assented to it throughout his political life, and, in essentials, that policy has never been altered. Fundamentally, it has never differed from the policy which I have just read'. 
I am well aware of that fact. The right honorable gentlemanknows perfectly well, however, that it was the Australian Labour party which gave to Australia its navy. 
That is all right; have I said anything to the contrary? 
No. In making that statement the right honorable gentleman gives another illustration of his remarkable ability to use language to conceal his thoughts. ' No Australian government, and no government of any other country, would dare to say that it would not defend its own territory. "What nonsense is it, therefore, to say that a LabourGovernment in Australia, of all governments throughout the world, would be the only one which would not possess a defence policy. Surely, however, we are entitled to say what, in our opinion, is the best method of internal defence, and to assert that, obviously, that must constitute Australia's best contribution to Empire defence. There can be nothing wrong with that attitude. 
Let us see what that policy which I have just read really represents. Unequivocably we declare that we are prepared - and this obligationis incumbent upon every member of our party, because of the pledge which he has signed - to put into operation that plank of our policy which demands the adequate defence of Australia. What does that mean?It means that we are contributing towards the protection from aggression of 7,000,000 British subjects. That is not a small contribution. It means, further, that we are doing out best to protect adequately 3,000,000 square miles of British territory, and, if we carry out that policy, we shall be protecting £1,000,000,000 of British capital invested in this country. Probably half of this amount is invested in Australian Government securities and half of it in industry. Already, therefore, Australia is not doing badly so far as Empire defence is concerned. If honorable senators will study the latest statistics available on the subject they will find that the expenditure  per capita  on. defence of the dominions is as follows: - New Zealand, 12s. 7d. ; Canada, 5s. 7d.; South Africa, 3s. 5d. ; and Australia, 2ls.10d. 
I am surprised that, in his innocence,  Senator Guthrie  is not already aware of the fact that when the Government of the United Kingdom proposed to levy a special tax to provide for its immense rearmament programme the well-to-do people of Great Britain rebelled against the proposal, with the result that in a few days it was withdrawn and the burden involved was transferred to other shoulders. As proof that Australia is doing its job generously in respect of defence, I point out that during the last financial year our expenditure on repatriation, interest on our war debt, and preparatory defensive measures amounted to £25,000,000. . Speaking on behalf of the Labour party as the Opposition in this Parliament, I submit that we surely have a right to say that at some stage we must reach the saturation point in respect of our expenditure on defence, either in man-power or in cash. If any honorable senator declares that we cannot possibly reach such a saturation point, that Australia, a small community, can go on indefinitely spending money on defence and be ready, at all times, to defend itself adequately against the most powerful possible aggressor, he is not entitled to a place in a deliberative assembly but should be an inmate of a mental institution. I may be allowed to repeat, that statement. Surely we of the Opposition have the right to assert that somewhere is saturation point, beyond which Australia cannot proceed in this matter of defence, either in manpower or cash. Surely we have the right to assert that under existing conditions in Australia every penny spent upon defence schemes must be taken from somebody in this community, and I am fully justified in asking how we can expect to get it by the methods favoured by the Government and its supporters. Under their proposals the money must either be squeezed from, social services - I say this deliberately and with a full sense of responsibility for my words - or it must be obtained by increased taxes on the higher incomes. 
I well understand the attitude of the Leader of the Country party  (Senator Hardy).  He will, I expect, declare that the money for defence will not be squeezed from social services with the approval of his party. But other Government members represent another party to this political marriage of convenience, and we well know that their supporters are continually squealing, not only in this Parliament but also through their -press organs and on public platforms, that taxation has reached its limit and must be reduced. As a matter of fact this Government has during the last few years relieved the wealthy people of Australia from immense taxation burdens. It has repealed a portion of the land tax, super taxes of all kinds, and has, in various ways, shifted the tax burden from the well-to-do to the shoulders of those who are least able to bear it. Honorable senators supporting the Government cannot have it both ways. I repeat that the money for this defence programme must either be squeezed from social services or extracted from taxpayers enjoying the higher incomes. I am satisfied that the first-named method will be favoured, because the Government parties dare not touch the wealthy section of the community which supplies them with .their election funds. I warn them, however, that if the Labour party be returned to power at the forthcoming elections, and I confidently believe it will be, it will re-  impose those taxes that were remitted on the higher incomes and thus make the wealthy people of this country pay for its defence. 
The honorable gentleman and his friends have always approved of the sale of scrap iron to Japan in the full knowledge that it would be used for the manufacture of munitions. 
I remind the Senate that we have in. Australia a population pf only 6,500,000. 
Of that number tens of thousands' of people are out of  employment. 
If  Senator Badman  can successfully challenge my statement he will have an opportunity to do so when I resume my seat. I shall welcome any refutation that he may make. It is my intention to broadcast this propaganda through my own State during the coming election campaign, but I promise that if  Senator Badman  can prove that any statement which I am now making is untrue I shall not repeat it. 
I know that I have said this before, but it is worth repeating. The census taken in 1933 disclosed that nearly 2,750,000 breadwinners in Australia were in receipt' of less than £259 a year. I admit that the position has improved somewhat since that year, but I remind the Senate that it is to the breadwinners that we must look for the defence of this country in an emergency, and it is to them that the employers must look for the labour power to keep the wheels of industry turning and producing profits. I have said that this Government will not attempt to finance its defence schemes by taxing the well-to-do section of the community, and I emphasize that the only alternative is to squeeze the money out of social services. 
I shall not leave the honorable senator in any doubt about my views on that subject before I resume my seat. 
Every honorable senator will, I think, admit the desirableness of liberalizing the provisions with regard to invalid pensions, particularly those relating to persons claiming to be totally and permanently incapacitated. There are some of us who believe, also, that the old-age pension should be increased and the age limit lowered. Others, again, believe that the amount of allowable income should be higher. 
I have as much right to make an electioneering speech on this motion as the Prime Minister had when presenting what he said was a report of the proceedings of the Imperial Conference, and I intend to take advantage of my privilege. Most honorable senators, I hope, believe in a liberalization of the provisions relating to the family income in connexion with the payment of maternity allowance, and I am sure that many senators are, like myself, beseiged by returned soldiers in distress because the entitlement tribunals have refused to recognize their claims for assistance, on the ground that their disabilities were not due to war service. Then we have the spectacle also of State governments making frequent demands on the Commonwealth to shoulder a portion of the expenditure on education, and to accept a larger share of the responsibility for the maintenance of health services and housing problems. 
The other day I read the following statement by  Mr. E.  J.Williams, a. member of the House of Commons, in an address to the Bank Officers Guild in London: - 
In the year 1925 the output per person employed in the mining industry in Great Britain was16 cwt. a day. The output per person employed last year was nearly 23 cwt. The total output in 1924 was 223,000.000 tons with 960,000 persons employed. The output last year was 224,000,000 tons, with 743,000 persons employed. The introduction of coal-cutting machinery, conveyors, and all forms of new technique, is revolutionising industry. . . There are no new markets to conquer, so we are beginning to contract, and in that contraction you have economic friction, out of which dictatorships are produced. There are only two outlets, either militarism or social services. 
It is an old trick, when internal troubles are causing unrest, when social services are restricted and when unemployment is rife, for those responsible for the government to distract attention by raising external difficulties, which may lead to war. In his review of the Imperial Conference proceedings, the Prime Minister said - 
At the first plenary session of the conference I asked for a clear statement of the principles for which the British Empire Stood and I said "All democratic peoples and all who desire the maintenance of international law and order are hoping for positive results from this conference. They ask for a clear lead along the path of enduring peace." 
Yet, because I, this afternoon, declared that I and my party wanted " a clear lead  along the path of enduring peace ", I was assailed by ribald interjections and ironic laughter, and was told, in effect, that Labour has no policy which would bring about such a desirable condition of affairs. 
In the House of Representatives, the Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill)  said - " The Prime Minister, with meticulous accuracy, detailed everything which took place at the Imperial Conference with regard to defence." 
When listening to the debate in the House of Representatives yesterday afternoon, I heard the Minister make that statement. When he said those words he knew, just as every honorable senator knows, that the Prime Minister did nothing of the kind. 
SenatorPayne. - I rise to order. Is the honorable senator in order in referring to a debate which took place in the House of Representatives during this session ? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  - The Leader of the Opposition is out of order. 
I do not know what I am to. do about it. I cannot withdraw the statement ; but I shall not offend again. 
All of us are well aware that we are never allowed to get at the truth of what is happening at the Imperial Conference in regard to international relationships. Does any honorable senator mean to tell me that at the last Imperial Conference all the diplomatic subjects raised between the participating countries were laid bare on the table and that the Prime Minister has returned to explain them fully to the Australian people? 
I have no doubt that those facts were laid bare at the conference; but I do not believe that the Prime Minister is likely, or that he would be allowed, to disclose them without reservation. 
I am quite certain that the circumstances then were similar to those at the last conference.  Mr. Scullin  was not permitted to return to Australia and give to the public a full and frank explanation of the problems discussed at the conference. If those " inside " discussions were intended later to be disclosed to the public, they would be of no value. In his report the Prime Minister has not given us a statement of the proceedings of the Imperial Conference. It is an election propaganda declaration. It is a compilation of pious platitudes, and will be recognized as such by every citizen who is not entirely bereft of sanity. But as a practical contribution to the peace and security of Australia, which it is possible for us to make on our own behalf, it is mostly valueless. I summarize that precious document as follows :  - " I have been to the Imperial Conference on behalf of Australia, without any instructions from the Parliament or from the people. I have pledged Australia to an expenditure during the next three years of £30,000,000 for defence. I have agreed as to the manner in which the money shall be expended upon the various arms of defence, and if you, who constitute Bus Majesty's Opposition in this Parliament, dare to criticize what I have done, you are disloyalists." I invite honorable senators to read that report; they will find that my deductions may fairly be drawn from it. 
Is it seriously contended that we must willy-nilly take our place in the mad armaments race, in which the world is now involved, without first making any inquiry as to what might be the most effective form of armaments for the defence of this country, or being given an opportunity to offer honest criticism of the suggestions of our political opponents as to the best manner in which this enormous sum of money shall be spent? In their heart of hearts honorable senators think nothing of the kind. I consider that, but for political expediency, they would all believe that the Opposition has a right to say, "Yes, we shall co-operate with you in this matter of defence ". 
Listening to the debate in the House of Representatives yesterday, I heard from the supporters of the Government a storm of unfair interjections against Opposition speakers, which would prevent anybody from getting within a mile of. cooperation with any of them.. 
Are we never to attempt to strike a different note? May we never be privileged to suggest policies of conciliation and nonprovocation in relation to our neighbours, and other rational policies designed to save civilization itself, without being subjected to the insulting and untruthful charges of disloyalty, a desire to " cut the painter ", unwillingness to co-operate, and a disposition to dismember the Empire? As an individual Australian, and as Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, I am proud of our parliamentary institutions. I never lose an opportunity  to  point out to the people whom I have the privilege of. meeting on the platform and elsewhere, that if we are hot careful to preserve our democratic institutions, our British form of government, and -our limited monarchy, and defend them against ail comers, we shall be faced with but one alternative, viz., the establishment of dictatorships. In a world of tumbling dynasties I am proud of our parliamentary institutions ' and our methods of conducting our affairs within the British Commonwealth of Nations; but surely we are not expected to accept willy-nilly every defence measure that the Government brings before us! If we venture to criticize any. such proposals, we are called disloyalists who are anxious to " cut the painter ", to dismember the Empire, and to doall the other horrible things which are the creatures of  Senator Hardy's  fertile imagination. 
In this document the Prime Minister referred to a pacific pact. He said: - 
As a consequence, the Australian Government felt the time opportune and desirable to make some advance towards securing an understanding which would not only lead to the continued maintenance of friendly relations in the Pacific region, but materially contribute to the general peace of the world. 
The proposal, made as it necessarily has been in very general terms, was received with much sympathetic attention and interest, and, as you will note from the declaration on foreign affairs, was generally approved by the Conference as a desirable objective. 
The report of the Conference refers to the proposal in the following terms: - " They noted with interest the statement made on behalf of the Australian delegation at the opening plenary meeting that Australia would greatly welcome a regional understanding and pact of non-aggression by the countries of the Pacific, and would be prepared to collaborate to that end with all the peoples of the Pacific region in a spirit of understanding and sympathy. They agreed that if such an arrangement could be made it would be a desirable contribution to the cause of peace and to the continued maintenance of friendly relations in the Pacific, and that it should be the subject of further consultation between governments ". 
I ask honorable senators to consider the policy of the Government in maintaining friendly relations with people of the Pacific. What did the Government do to the good customer nation of Japan by its discriminatory tariff? And what did it do to the other customer nation, the United States of America? If there be one nation of the world with which we should be on friendly terms- 
The Government by its discriminatory policy against Japan took millions of pounds out of the pockets of the wool-growers. 
The honorable senator should hear the comments of the wool-growers of Queensland; they will voce for the Labour party at the next elections because of the Commonwealth Government's trade diversion policy. Not satisfied with dealing a blow at Japan, the Government then "had a go" at another great nation with whom it was vitally necessary that we should maintain friendly relations in the Pacific. What was the Prime Minister told about the nature of our relations with the United States of America? The right honorable gentleman proposed to return from the Imperial Conference via Washington; but did he do so? He altered his plans because it was definitely intimated to him from Washington that, as the result of the Government's trade diversion policy, the Government of the United States of America did not desire to hold consultation with him. 
But the Prime Minister altered his plans. He intended to return to Australia, via Washington, but he did not do so. 
My statements are true; I am able to confirm them. 
I repeat my statement. If the facts are not as I have stated, we look to the Prime Minister to deny them. His proposal for a Pacific pact, following the failure of many of the existing international pacts, is so much " piffle ". Obviously the policy to which this Parliament isasked to agree is that we should subordinate our paramount duty to provide for the adequate defence of Australia internally, and the equally great and important duty of enlarging the value and extending the scope of our social services, to the demonstrably impossible task of becoming the policeman of Europe, and a salvage corps in the service of warring nations abroad. It is equally obvious that the present Government intends, if and when Great Britain is again embroiled in war, that the manhood of Australia shall be conscripted for service abroad, and that, as a preliminary thereto, universal training shall again be imposed on every young Australian. But when somewhat timorously the Labour party declares that it does not believe that the proposed expenditure on defence is justified in the directions in which it is to be made, and when it contends that the principal means of defending Australia, which is so far removed from the scene of warlike operations, is not by the establishment of huge armies, but by the creation of an adequate air force, it is subjected to violent criticism. 
I am gratified that at last the kindly PostmasterGeneral has been flogged into making an interjection. It was not a wise interjection, because it was so obvious. The defence policy of the Labour party is in the air, and the Postmaster-General merely stressed what I have declared. The Opposition honestly believes that Australia can be better protected, and tha Empire can be more effectively assisted by making our first arm of defence the air force. 
I am more in touch with the Trade Union Congress than is  Senator Hardy;  he has to get his information from spies and eavesdroppers. I emphasize that compulsory military training will again be imposed on our young Australians. 
No ; it is the logical inference from the statements which have been made in the Senate thisafternoon; they leave me no conclusion other than that universal training will be introduced. 
If the Government does not intend to carry out the. policy that it has enunciated, why does it submit it? 
It is proposed to trail our coat, to warn the enemy of our strength, and to say,. " You had better not come over here, because we are ready for you". That attitude recalls the lines from which the term " jingoist " originated - 
We don't want to fight, but by jingo if we do 
We've got the guns, we've got the men, 
We've got the money too. 
This is not a new trick ; it is the old ruse to trap people into paying taxes in. order to carry on war. 
I am glad the honorable senator made that remark. I stated earlier in my speech that the Australian Labour party declares in clear and definite terms in its policy that it does not believe in sending the manhood of Australia overseas, unless the people of Australia instruct that that course be followed. By interjection,  Senator Guthrie  suggests that it would be impracticable to take a referendum when the Empire is imperilled. I know that during the forthcoming election campaign the people will be told that when the Empire was in danger a Labour government would he messing around with a referendum. 
The Leader of the Senate knows that my time is limited, and that up to the present I have not said anything which he could use during the elections to the detriment of the Australian Labour party, but under cover of a smile he is endeavouring to conceal the disappointment that he is enduring in that connexion.  Senator Guthrie  suggests that it would he impossible to take a referendum, because the procedure is somewhat long and cumbersome, but that is ridiculous and untrue. Wars do not commence in a week, a month, or six weeks, and they do not end so rapidly as we desire. No one can say when the conflicts at present being waged will terminate. If the Australian people wish to engage in a war beyond their own shores, the right course for any government to pursue is to give the people the right to express their views. 

 - Senator Abbott, who recently made a commendable effort to assist in bringing about a better understanding between the nations, and to lead them along the right path, should know the answer. 
The honorable senator should preserve a measure of sanity, and refrain from making interjections, which are not warranted. Under the heading of " Foreign Affairs " in the statement which we are now debating, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  said - 
The present international situation is such that all representatives realized that on them devolved the responsibility, not only of making a definite contribution to . general world appeasement, but also clearly indicating those fundamental principles for which the Empire Stood. 
We all agree with that. I protest strongly against the fact which obtrudes itself so obviously in the Prime Minister's statement that it is intended to allow private enterprise to make enormous profits in the event of national emergency. Everything clone in connexion with the manufacturing of arms and munitions to protect this nation should be undertaken by the Goaternment of the country, and not one penny of profit from that source should be allowed to fall into the pockets of private . firms or individuals. The production of arms and munitions, ships, aeroplanes, and fuel oil should be undertaken by the Government, instead of allowing private individuals to exploit the people. It is said that steps will be taken to mobilize industry, and to enable established concerns to be capable of meeting the demands of the nations in time of war. If the Government is sincere it should take stock of the position now, and ascertain the possibility of production in this country. The time to do so is now, and not when difficulty arises. What are we doing? One has only to read the agreement which has been adopted in connexion with the production of shale oil to realize the way in which this Government proposes to assist private enterprise at the expense of the nation. In delivering his policy speech in 1934, the Prime Minister said, "Above everything 'else attention will be given to the question of unemployment '". In order to indicate his sincerity, he said in effect that if his Government were returned it would proceed immediately with the standardization of the railway gauges of Australia, because that would be a means of providing employment for thousands of men for a term of years. He further stated that it would be a valuable policy, because in times of national emergency we would be able to transport rapidly troops and munitions across the continent. Has anything been done? 
The standard gauge has been increased by only 56 miles since that statement was made, and no constructive attempt whatever has been made to deal with' the unemployment of youths. 
Of the gigantic job outlined by the Prime Minister in 1934, only 56 miles of the work has been completed. In the  Age  newspaper of the 24th August this year the following leading article appeared: - 
According to the view-point, the current Federal Parliament is differently assessed. Oi_ one point there can be no dispute. No preceding Parliament lias varied long recesses with such brief anil infrequent periods of work. In the present year - a year of special strain and anxiety, during which statesmen the world over have been wrestling with the great international, economic and social problems of the period - the National Parliament of Australia has been in session for exactly tendays! During that short interruption of what has become almost a permanent political holiday, no legislation of any consequence was dealt with. For its record, therefore, the Government must rely either on performances pre-dating this, as yet, completely barren year or on the programme to be dealt with in the sittings which will be resumed at Canberra to-day.  [ Extension of time granted.] 
The report continued - 
This will be the final and, in the nature of things political, the electioneering session. The Government's choice lies between a session of brisk activity and genuine achievement and a period devoted to preliminary bouts of the impending party tournament. It has been suggested that, as the elections may be held in October, the Government will " save up " any arresting or attractive proposals it may have conceived, on the ground that they should be more valuable as promises than as performances. There are two considerations opposing that strategy. One is that it has been recklessly overworked in previous campaigns; the other that it is the Government's plain duty,' while it has the power, and the time and the responsibility, to deal constructively with those questions that arc before the country. Many electors will be suspicious of promises as substitute for performance when they recall that the feature of the Government's last pre-election policy which was elaborated from every platform, was a vast scheme of re-employment, with particular reference to the needs of youth, which would " take precedence over other Commonwealth activities". This great scheme included a scries of national projects, first among which was to be the unification of therailway gauges. Three years later the "youth employment problem " is still a subject for debating societies, and the breaks of gauge remain. 
The members of the Opposition give place to no one in this chamber or elsewhere in their honest attempt to provide, to the extent of the nation's capacity, for the adequate defence of Australia against possible foreign aggression. It is not ray duty, as some honorable senators opposite imagine, to say what a Labour Government would do. 
I have stated definitely that our policy provides for the adequate defence of Australia. After the next general election there may or may not be a Labour Government in this country, but I assure honorable senators that if there is, it will not be lacking capacity or courage, and that it will do it's job as this Government believes it is doing its job. As I stated at the outset of my remarks, this subject should be considered calmly in the light of facts, and not in the light of surmise, insinuations and innuendoes. We shouldgive one another credit for sincerity on this important subject. I trust that I shall not be accused of disloyalty when I say that the moneywhich the Government proposes to expend on the defence of Australia would give better service and render a greater measure of protection to Australia, and to the sister dominions, if it were expended as the Labour party proposes rather than in the manner outlined in the statement of the Prime Minister which is now before the Senate. 
I looked forward with considerable interest to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition (SenatorCollings) on the subjects discussed at the recent Imperial Conference, and particularly that of defence, because I thought that by following his remarks closely, and keeping my mind reasonably clear, I might hear him clear up the mystery surrounding the defence policy of the Australian Labour party. After hearing him speak for over an hour I must confess that I am still as much in the dark as ever. In these circumstances I do not regret the statement I made during the Gwydir byelection campaign, when in reply to questions as to the defence policy of the Labour party, I Had to say that it had no defence policy. Although the Leader of the Opposition has said that the policy of the Labour party provides for the adequate defence of Australia, I am still convinced thatit is a policy which could not ensure national security. I desired to hear from the honorable gentleman replies to a number of interjections, particularly those which asked what the Opposition would do with the Defence vote if, per chance, it were successful at the forthcoming election. Honorable senators still do not, know what the Labour party would do with that vote if returned to power. When the budget is submitted to us in a few clays' time, the Leader of the Opposition will have an opportunity to say whether or not the Defence vote is regarded by the Labour party as satisfactory. I confess also that I am still ignorant of the means by which  the Labour party would limit the activities of aerial bombers to the territorial boundary of Australia. 
The defence policy of the Labour party provides that no man shall be called upon to serve outside the territorial limits of Australia. It may be that, under a Labour government, a piece of elastic would be attached to the end of each bomber to ensure that it did not. go beyond the three-mile limit. This and other questions the Leader of the Opposition did not answer. 
The Leader of the Opposition talked of many things - of the unification of the railway gauges, of unemployment, of vocational training of youths - but in regard to the main subject covered by the report, he spoke only in general terms. I say emphatically that the report of the Imperial Conference is one of the most significant documents that has ever been tabled in the Senate. Although it is of such importance as to demand the 'most, earnest consideration of every honorable senator, its chief points - those which relate to major matters such as the peace of the world - were avoidedby the Leader of the Opposition this afternon. The report, at least, points to the path which Australia should tread in its pursuit of a sound policy of national defence. I believe that when the people have studied it, they will see that the proposals of the Government go a long way towards removing that sense of insecurity which now exists. 
The report also answered effectively the criticism which has been levelled against overseas visits by Ministers. I was interested to observe that this subject was not mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition to-day. Obviously, he acted under instructions from the caucus. In effect, members of the Labour party have been told : " This report is dangerous ; be careful how you handle it, for it may be used against the Labour party. Talk broadly, and do not provide any political munitions to be used against you." 
On other occasions the Leader ofthe Opposition has condemned the Government for sending Ministers overseas, but no mention of that subject was made to-day. The caucus has directed that such subjects shall be retained for mention on the hustings. . 
Another hardy annual was absent from the speech of the Leader of the Opposition to-day, for he made no reference to the domination of Downing-street. Acting under instructions from the caucus, the honorable gentleman has remained silent on this and a number of other subjects. 
I have here a booklet which may be of great interest to honorable senators generally. Its blue cover is probably well known to the Leader of the Opposition and the members of his party. It is called  Labour's Challenge ; why Australia should vote out the Lyons Government.  The booklet is issued " on behalf of the Labour party, by John Curtin, Parliament House, Canberra, 20th. July, 1937." 
After the booklet had been issued, a few mistakes were found in it, and desperate efforts were made to recall the copies distributed. The booklet is now almost as scarce as diamonds. If the Leader of the Opposition believes that it contains good propaganda on behalf of his party, I ask him to supply acopy of it to each honorable senator. I am afraid, however, that, again obeyingthe caucus, the honorable gentleman will pounce upon any copy that he may find lying about, and immediately place it in the strong-rooms of the party at the Trades Hall. 
The Leader of the Opposition has not said when he will give delivery of the booklet. 
I trust that there will be no delay in making copies of the booklet available to honorable senators; there are plenty of copies here in Canberra. 
On page 103 of the booklet there is a cheap sneer at ministerial globe-trotting. I had hoped that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  would deal with that subject in his speech, but, obviously, he decided to act with considerable restraint for ho did not mention it. On this subject the booklet states - 
In fa-ct the most worn plank of the Lyons Government's platform is the gangway of an overseas steamer. 
The .booklet sets out to try to convince the electors that the Lyons Government has been extravagant in regard to ministerial trips overseas which have had practically no results. 
On the subject of the Imperial Conference, the Leader of the Opposition, in his speech on the Address-in-Reply, said - 
The Prime Minister and two other Ministers have been participating in the important deliberations of the Imperial Conference. 
I ask honorable senators to note the word u important ". Notwithstanding his use of that word, the honorable gentleman did not discuss the principles underlying world peace contained in the report. 
The honorable senator went on to say - 
I understand from intimations given to honorable senators yesterday that the results of those deliberations will be placed before us later. In passing, I shall only say that everybody in this country, with a mentality developed beyond the infantile stage, knows perfectly well that the Imperial Conference has been a "dud". 
To-day the- honorable senator said that it was worse than a " dud ". 
I ask honorable senators to take note of that interjection. The honorable gentleman went on to say - 
The time occupied in its deliberations has been totally valueless to Australia. That is the only conclusion we can draw, if the information that has percolated to Australia through the syndicated press - in which, by the way. I have very little confidence - and the syndicated wireless, which is controlled by the syndicated press, can be taken as reliable. This information shows that the conference has been a complete and tragic dud. 
In one breath the Leader of the Opposition says that the conference achieved nothing of importance, but almost in his next breath, in answer to an interjection by  Senator Dein,  he said that the conference did deal with something of importance. That the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber holds views on the subject of overseas trips vastly different from those of the Leader of the Australian Labour party will be made clear by an extract from a speech delivered by the latter in the HoUSe of Representatives, as reported in  Hansard,  of the 6th December, 1929. Dealing broadly with the international associations of Australia and ministerial visits abroad, the speech of  Mr. Curtin  showed clearly that that honorable gentleman approved of representatives of Australia visiting other countries and attending conferences.  His  views are set out in the following report of his speech : - 
There is related to the problem of defence, the great problem of international association. In 1924 I went, as a representative of this country, to one of the conventions of the League of Nations, and I concluded that the representation of Australia internationally is about the only contribution that we can effectively make towards a cementing of the antagonisms of the old world. AVe must participate in this movement because it is part of the process of civilization. We should not remain outside it. 
Statements such as that do not deter the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber from trying to induce the electors to believe that Ministers have no right to4 take part in international gatherings abroad. 
The speech of  Mr. Curtin  continued - 
A knowledge of international difficulties and of what is being proposed internationally to deal with them is essential to the people of Australia and more essential to those who have a definite responsibility imposed upon them. Whether it be the League of Nations', the Disarmament Conference, the Imperial Conference, or any other conference, I feel that we should have associated with our delegation three or four representative men in the sole capacity of research workers, whose duty on their return to Australia would be to engage in effective educational work in accordance with what has been done at the conference. It may be said that that would add to the coat of government: 

 Sir Archdale Parkhill Is it worth while? 

 Mr. CURTIN. Yes. 
Yet in this booklet which has been issued under his name,  Mr. Curtin,  as Leader of the Australian Labour party, has a cheap sneer at the Government representatives who went abroad to attend the Imperial Conference. This is evidence, I submit, of a capacity on the part of the Labour party to prostitute a sincere conviction to political expediency, and I suggest that such an attitude will tell against it when it asks for the confidence of the Australian people at the next election. 
I propose now to deal with the important matter of our relations with Downing Street. During the Gwydir byelection campaign the Leader of the Opposition frequently said - and I have no reason to believe that his attitude in the future will differ very greatly from that taken up by him in the past - that this Government is the robot and pawn of Downing Street. 
Not in those exact words, but statements to that effect have repeatedly been said by members of the Opposition in this chamber. They have contended that this Government does exactly what Downing Street requests. I shall offer a definite rebuttal of that allegation. Touching on the activities of alleged sinister imperialists  Mr. Beasley  said on the 1st November, 1935,  Hansard,  Vol. 147, page 1269 - 
On the 11th September, speaking before the League of Nations, the British Foreign 
Secretary,  Sir Samuel  Hoare, said that Britain stood for the maintenance of the Covenant in its entirety. I stress the word " entirety " to show again that economic sanctions must be followed by military sanctions, with war as the inevitable result. 
I do not dispute that statement, but  Mr. Beasley  added - lt appears to me that this Government is simply an instrument in the hands of  Mr. Anthony  Eden and  Sir Samuel  Hoare and is willing to accept unreservedly what the British Foreign Office decided. . 
That statement has been supported on the hustings by the Leader of the Opposition. I point out that  Mr. Beasley  has played a prominent part on behalf of the Labour party in electioneering campaigns throughout the Commonwealth. Up till recently he was the leader of the Lang group in the House of Representatives and, therefore, we must give some weight to his words.  His  statement that this Government is a pawn and robot, obeying the dictates of Downing Street, has been, supported time and time again by members of the Labour party. That being so, I should like the Leader of the Opposition to consider what exactly was the status of Australia at the Imperial Conference, because if it was represented at that gathering as an autonomous community then there must be something seriously wrong in  Mr. Beasley's  statement. I refer the Leader of the Opposition to the resolution passed at the Imperial Conference of 1926 which clearly defined beyond all doubt the status of the dominions, and I point out that in the meantime there has been no change of that status. The resolution read - 
They are autonomous communities within the British Empire, equal in status, in no -way subordinate one to another in any respect of their domestic or external affairs, though united by a common allegiance to the Crown, and freely associated as members of the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
Will the Leader of the Opposition agree that that is so?' 
In 1931  Mr. Scullin,  as the then Prime Minister of Australia, attended an Imperial Conference, and in 1936 the representatives of this Government attended another meeting of the Imperial 'Conference, but. on the latter occasion the Labour party did not hesitate to try to make political capital out of this Government's representation by saying that the status of Australia at the Imperial Conference had been changed. 
The honorable senator himself may not 'have said that, but statements have repeatedly been made by members of the Labour party that this Government is under the control and domination of Downing Street. Consequently, it is only fitting in a debate of this nature to examine the history of the Imperial Conference in order that honorable senators may realize the real status of the dominions within the Empire. In that w.ay it will be shown that the dominions arc not under what the Leader of the Opposition would call Imperial domination, and, further, it will be realized that the conclusions arrived at by the conference have been simply the conclusions of a collective body representing autonomous communities within the Empire. I seriously doubt the attitude of the Labour party towards the British Empire and, in the past, I have not hesitated to say so. I shall offer substantiation for that charge by referring to statements contained in  Mr. Curtin's  booklet, and also to statements made by members of the Opposition in the Senate. Itis particularly interesting to note that when  Mr. Scullin  returned from the Imperial Conference in 1931, he said that he was more convinced than ever of the importance of being represented at such gatherings and thus having opportunities of discussing economic conditions with the heads of other governments in the British Commonwealth. He also stated that experience had- shown that while the work of an Imperial Conference could, not be judged solely on the basis of the tangible results at the time, each Conference gave an added impetus to forces which had been set in motion perhaps many years previously and, in this way, definite and far-reaching changes in the political and economic organization of the British people were brought about. 
The accuracy of that statement is not doubted, hut I venture to say that at the next election the Labour party will chal lenge the right of this Government to send representatives to the Imperial Conference. During the Gwydir by-election campaign I listened to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate painting verbal pictures of this Government's representatives going up the gangway, followed by their entourage, and spending abroad the money of the Austraiian taxpayers. In that way he endeavoured to win votes. 
The honorable senator should be ashamed to admit that he got votes on such a cry. The last Imperial Conference was the first at which this Government was represented since the autonomy of the various dominions has been recognized by statute. I have dealt at length with Australia's position at the Imperial Conference in order to remove any possible doubt in respect of that matter, and in order to forestall any attack by the Labour party in that respect. Furthermore, it is my desire that the purport of this report be fully realized. While we hear the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate expressing agreement with the status of the dominions at the Imperial Conference what do we find in the booklet issued under the authority of  Mr. Curtin  as Leader of the Australian Labour party? That party characterizes the actions of this Government in its relationship and commitments to Britain and the other dominions as " furtive, secret and sinister ". I ask the Leader of the Opposition whether he thinks that this Government has- been furtive and secret in its imperial associations. 
No. I should like a direct reply from the Leader of the Opposition on that point because whilst he agrees with the principles which I have mentioned, this booklet, which has been issued under the authority of the party, characterizes this Government's imperial relationships as " furtive, secret and sinister ". That being so the time is ripe for us to examine the attitude of the Labour party to the Imperial connexion in order to find out whether it is furtive, or secret, and whether that party possesses that loyalty toward the Empire 'which, so recently, it seems to have discovered. I say unhesitatingly that the attitude of the Labour party towards the Empire is selffish, self-centred and vacillating, and reeks of a spirit foreign to that which actuates the British Commonwealth of Nations. I shall voice that charge from every platform from which I speak. My contention is supported not only by the statements of  Senator Collings,  but also by- those of many members of his party in the House of Representatives. Speaking on this matter in the other chamber on the 24th June, 1937,  Hansard,  page 413 - and this statement is particularly interesting in view of  Senator Collings'  expressions of loyalty and his show of righteous indignation when that loyalty was impugned -  Mr. Ward  said - lt cannot be denied by any observant student that foreign imperialistic powers - and among the number I include Great Britain - are preparing for war. 
What did the Labour party do about that statement Did it reprimand Mri Ward, or investigate his statement in any way? Did it issue any statement repudiating the classification of Great Britain as a foreign imperialistic power? No; the Labour party simply accepted it. I submit that statement as evidence of its attitude to-day towards our imperial relationship,  Mr. Ward  continued- 
The honorable member for Henty asked what the Labour party had to say about Empire. He_e is what I, as a Labour man, have to say about it: The British imperialists who have invested their money in different parts of the' world have done so, not to benefit the native races, but to exploit them. If the British imperialists wish to protect their interests, they can do.it themselves. 
That is the statement of an accredited member of the Labour party; Again, we find  Mr. Curtin,  in the booklet to which I have referred, referring to defence as follows : - 
This does not mean in any way that the Labour party disregards its obligations as a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
If the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate agrees with that statement, I still want to know why he tolerates-  Mr. Ward  as a member of the Labour party. 
Speaking on the 8th November, 1935, as reported in 

 Hansard, Volume 148, page 1434, the honorable senator himself said - 
The Labour party says definitely and unequivocally that when the mad dogs of Europe are barking "Empire" there is no occasion for Australia to enter the kennel. 
Does that mean that the honorable senator, in no circumstances, would permit an Australian soldier to leave our shores, not even for the purpose of going to the succor of some other community cif the British Commonwealth of Nations? In order that there may be no doubt about where the Labour party stands on defence, I invite attention to a statement made by  Mr. Beasley,  the Leader of the New South Wales Labour group in this Parliament. He declared that Labour's defence policy was complete isolation. How is it possible to reconcile  Mr. Beasley's  statement with the view expressed yesterday in the House of Representatives by  Mr. Curtin,,  the Leader of the Labour party, that Labour was prepared to stand up to its 'obligations as a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations? 
That may come, if the occasion warrants it. It is  apparent  from recent statements by Labour  leaders  on defence, that a good deal of  confusion  exists in the party, and it is refreshing to find much more definite pronouncements by Labour leaders in other portions of the British Commonwealth of Nations. One I have in mind is a statement made recently by  Mr. Savage,  the Leader of .the Labour Government in New Zealand. He declared in no uncertain /manner that - 
If the British Commonwealth of Nations were to live they must work together, and New Zealand could not separate from the Commonwealth any more than the Commonwealth could separate from the rest of the world. 
Does the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber challenge the implications conrained in that statement? Yet leaders of the Australian Labour party, speaking with their tongues in their cheeks, continue to make varying pronouncements on defence, and completely disregarding their obligations to the British Commonwealth  of Nations by, in at least one instance, as I have shown, advocating a policy of isolation. 
The Leader of the Opposition has not yet answered the query which I put to him during his speech earlier this afternoon, namely, whether it is the intention of the Labour party, if successful at the polls - a most unlikely event, I suggest  -  to reduce defence expenditure? 
There has been some talk about the relative value of the three defence arms - the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force - and we are not quite sure whether or not the Labour party, if returned to power, would be willing to sell the Navy to Japan for scrap iron. I put to the Leader of the Opposition a definite question - Is the Labour party prepared to spend on defence an amount equal to that proposed by this Government? I have no doubt that the answer, if it were forthcoming, would be in the negative. 
From all that I have heard it would be perilously near to that. 
The Leader of the Opposition this afternoon omitted to say anything about the eight-point declaration of the Imperial Conference, defining international relationships. To me it is extraordinary that the honorable senator, who has always advocated world peace, should have overlooked the importance of those  point3,  because the Imperial Conference emphasized their value in contributing to peace among the nations. 
The Government  has  reached the conclusion that the first line of security against invasion is an efficient" naval force with an adequate air force supplementing and co-operating. If an enemy attempts aggression, and must be resisted, says the report, it is far preferable to fight him away from our shores, than when he is peeking to land on our coasts or has actually established himself on our territory. Has the Leader of the Opposition any objection to that statement of defence policy? Does he think it preferable to fight an enemy within the three-mile limit or when he is attempting to land on our shores, instead of resisting him away from our shores? Naval strength as the first line of security is one of the principles that emanated from the Imperial Conference. Apparently this sound fundamental principle is not approved by the Labour party. I say deliberately that the inescapable conclusion from a careful perusal of statements made by its leaders is that, if the Labour party had its way with regard to defence, the Navy would be doomed. 
I find endorsement for it in the repeated statements By  Mr. Curtin,  the Leader of the Labour party in the House of Representatives. The honorable gentleman recently wrote a number of articles on defence for the Melbourne  Herald,  so there can be no doubt as to where he stands. On the 29th July he stated in one article - 
No political party can justify inordinate naval expenditure to the detriment of other means of defence. 
There may be nothing wrong with that part of the statement, but there is certainly something wrong with this - 
The present naval expenditure should be reviewed to see what can be diverted to complementary methods of defence. 
 Mr. Curtin  could have declared that the Labour party would spend as much on the Navy as the Government proposes to spend, but evidently that was a declaration which he wished to avoid making. He went on to sta te -  lt is foolish to say that Australia can sustain a sea-going navy adequate to her needs. Even if Australia could do so, she has not the power to retain it when Britain needs it. 
If the Leader of the Opposition can prove to me that the Australian Navy is under the definite control of Great Britain, when Australia needs it, I will concede that there is something to be said for his view, but I know he cannot do that.  Mr. Curtin  stated further - 
Therefore Australia's expenditure on defences which are within her ability to sustain should be on those forms over which she can exercise full control - defences which it can bc reasonably assumed will be in Australia when Australia needs them. 
It should be where it was in 1914-1918 - where it was most needed. That was not in Australia. 
In a speech in the House of Representatives on the 5th November, 1936,  Mr. Curtin  made this interesting statement - 
An Australian navy would, by itself, be an absolutely futile force in Australian waters, because it would obviously be the inferior naval force if an attack were made upon us. 
Has the Leader of the Opposition forgotten the exploits of the German raiders  Emden  and  Wolfe  during the war years ? And does he agree with  Mr. Curtin  that the Australian Navy would be an " absolutely futile force ?" 
 Mr. Curtin  in his newspaper article stated further - 
The question of Austraiian defence boils down to how many aerial fighters, bombers and carriers are adequate for Australia's needs and within her means to sustain. Until that is decided Australia has no effective preparedness. 
If that were a really true statement of Australia's defence problem, there might be no further need to debate the issue. 
But it is not the last word. An illuminating editorial in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  of the18th August, puts a number of important questions to the Australian Labour party. I quote the following extracts: - 
Where does labour stand ? Less than a year ago its leader declared for local defence, supplementing " a really effective system of Imperial defence," with the Australian Navy playing a useful part. Now  Mr. Curtin  is sceptical to the point of scornfulnees about the value of the Navy;he is all for a big air force. 
As for co-operation, "the Labour party's policy is against participation in foreign wars, and for the reservation of all Australia's strength for the defence of the land in which we live." This is a frank disavowal of the belief, generally accepted in Australia, that the British Navy, with the Royal Australian Navy as an auxiliary, is thesheet anchor of our safety. In time of war we are to shut ourselves up or beshut up, within our borders, and prepare to resist invaders, inviting them in fact, in the absence of a navy, to approach our very shores. 

 Mr. Curtin would have difficulty in finding professional support for his argument that we can get defence on the cheap by virtually scrapping the Navy in favour of " a five-fold aerial fleet ".  Mr. Curtin  is not a military technician. While giving him full credit for sincerity of purpose, we are obliged to seek reasons for his excessive devotion to the air ann. Has the fact that the Navy could be used outside Australian waters, whereas the air Bquadrons would, of their own nature, be confined to internal defence, anything to do with it?  Mr. Curtin's  own explanation of his policy suggests this inquiry. 

 Mr. Curtin has completely somersaulted in respect of aerial defence. As recently as  November, 1936, he said - 
In any case, any attempt to defend this country by aircraft alone would possibly necessitate, as I have said, the creation of an air force of such a size as to be beyond the capacity of this country to maintain. 
It is therefore only reasonable to assume that  Mr. Curtin  was quite satisfied at that time that it was not within the bounds of our financial capacity to maintain this aerial force which he contemplated. Writing in the Melbourne  Herald  six months later,  Mr. Curtin  said - 
The strength of Australian defence must lie in aviation. . . . The Labour party stands for a five-fold aerial fleet with refueling and repair aerodromes in all parts of Australia.It stands for an aerial fleet that can go across the continent and render public service in peace as well as in war. 
In that statement no mention of the financial capacity of Australia to maintain such an air force is made. 
I have not been able to discover that. 
Yes, with Queensland left out. While the political wing of the Australian Labour party advocates one defence policy, the industrial wing of that organization has drawn up an entirely different plan. In the Melbourne  Herald  of the 23rd July, the following report appeared - 
After a stormy debate, the All Australia Trade Union Congress to-day formulated the following principles to give effect to its policy against war: - 
1 ) Organize the masses against war ; 
Oppose the rearmament policies of British and the Lyons Government; 
Support a policy of collective security through the League of Nations as may be necessary in the interests of peace; and 
Secure democratic control of the army inside Australia. Included in this principle is Labor's opposition to conscription and Labor camps. This reverses the policy formulated in 1913. 
Thus the trade union movement advocated a policy which was a direct negation of that propounded by the political wing of the party. Is it any wonder that we repeatedly ask for a declaration of the precise attitude of the Labour party to defence? Nobody seems to know what it is. Members of the party themselves are unable to give us a definite connected statement. 
Yes; but  Mr. Ward  is not prepared, in any circumstances, to reveal his policy lestit might assist an imperialistic power. 
The report of the Imperial Conference is a definite and constructive contribution towards world peace. The eight points contained therein are outstanding and if they are adhered to will govern the history of the world for many years. I believe that the principles of defence laid down by the Commonwealth  Government  are in the best interests of Australia, but if we were so foolish as to adopt the proposals of the Labour party, colourless as they are, nothing but disaster could overtake us. 
I happened to be in Europe when the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  and his fellow delegates were attending the Imperial Conference, and from all sections of the British community I heard most favorable comments upon the efforts of those gentlemen on behalf of the Empire in general and Australia in particular. The fact was widely realized that, at. that conference, Australia was splendidly represented, just as all of us know how fortunate we are to have in the heart of the Empire so capable a High Commissioner as  Mr. S.  M. Bruce. Both  Mr. and Mrs. Lyons  are very highly respected in Great Britain; at all functions their presence was eagerly sought, and, together with the Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill)  and the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  they were regarded as being excellent speakers and worthyrepresentatives of this great Commonwealth. 
I am not denying that; but some honorable members of the Labour party who went abroad in Australia's name in the past were not worthy representatives of this country. 
Cheap criticism has been levelled at this Government in respect of the amount of money spent on the delegation. So far as I have been able to ascertain, this delegation was one of the most economical that ever left Australia to attend an Imperial Conference. The money was well spent. After the experience of seeing how matters are conducted abroad, my colleagues and I came to the conclusion that it was almost necessary to send batches of honorable senators and others abroad to be educated as to how things should be correctly done. When mixing abroad with the prominent men from all parts of the Empire, one  must learn much of value to a public man who is trying to represent this great Commonwealth in the National Parliament. 
At the Imperial Conference defence was the principal subject of discussion. War was not contemplated; deliberations related to the measures necessary for the prevention of war. The concensus of opinion amongst all thinking people in Europe was that a strong, united, and prepared British Empire was the only possible security for world peace and progress. 
The Labour party's defence policy as enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  this afternoon is most parochial ; it does not allow of any coordination of co-operation with any other member of the Empire for mutual defence. It even precludes the despatch of the Australian navy or air force to assist our sister dominion of New Zealand, a few hundred miles away, should it be attacked. 
The Leader of the Opposition made that statement. The policy of' the Labour party is to send nobody beyond the confines of Australia to protect any part of the Empire. 
SenatorGUTHRIE.- That is so. 
The policy of the Labour party is to provide for defence within the Commonwealth; it objects to the sending of arms or men from these shores. Surely such a policy is one of complete isolation. If the sister dominion of New Zealand is attacked the policy of the Labour party is to send neither ship nor aeroplane to its assistance. Although New Zealand may be threatened, we must, not raise a finger to aid them. 
-Senator Brown may be the next leader of the Labour party in the Senate.  Mr. Beasley,  who is the Leader of the New South Wales section of the Labour party, has openly stated that the policy of the party is one of complete isolation. Before engaging in hostilities overseas, the Labour party would first take steps to obtain the opinion of the Australian public on the matter by referendum. Presumably if New Zealand were being attacked we should send somebody in a rowing boat to say to the aggressor: "Please do not attack us, we are not ready. We must hold a referendum before we can help New Zealand. That referendum will take only a few weeks; so please,  Mr. Enemy,  do not fire a shot until we determine whether or not we shall defend Australia or New Zealand ".  Senator Collings  insinuated that Australia was overtaxed for defence purposes in proportion to other members of the British Commonwealth of Nations. The honorable gentleman showed quite correctly that we spend more  per capita  on defence than does Canada. But, Canada is not nearly so vulnerable to attack as is Australia ; it is protected by the Monroe doctrine and in the United States of America has an enormously powerful and friendly neighbour. On the other hand, Australia is a huge, empty, rich island continent with a coastline of 12,000 miles and a population numbering less than 7,000,000 persons. It is one of the prizes of the world.  Senator Collings  also showed that for defence purposes, Australia paid more  per capita  than the Union of South Africa. That is so; but two rights do not make a wrong. In my opinion, South Africa should make a much larger contribution towards the defence of its own shores than it is doing. However, it has strengthened the naval base at Simonstown, and is developing a powerful air force. What the Leader of the Opposition failed to compare was the contribution  per capita  for defence purposes of the little British Isles - the heart of the Empire - with our own payments. Probably Australians have more reason to defend their shores than have the people of any other part of the Empire. In proportion to their area, the British Isles have an enormous population, and it would be impossible for an invader to capture or occupy them for any length of time. Even if by a tragedy Great Britain temporarily lost control of the sea or air, no foreign nation could occupy it permanently. But the position of the Commonwealth is vastly different. First, it has a coastline of 12,000 miles; secondly, it has a dangerously sparse population; and thirdly, it is potentially very rich in productivity. For these reasons Australia must have adequate home defences, because it is worth defending. The little British Isles are spending on defence about ten times  per capita  as much as Australia is expending. "What is more, they are spending more money on the defence of Australia itself than we are spending. Great Britain would not need such an enormous navy but for the fact that it has to assist in the defence of the various parts of the Empire. The Leader of the Opposition should havestated the taxation per cap. for defence of Great Britain. 
They are not. The Leader of the Opposition also said that when the Chancellor of the Exchequer in Great Britain introduced a bill providing for the imposition of an additional £25,000,000 for defence purposes, there was such a storm of objection that the measure was withdrawn. I happened to be in the House of Commons when the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who is now Prime Minister withdrew the bill, and ho was applauded for being big enough to admit that a mistake had been made. Later, he introduced another measure, increasing the additional taxation to be imposed from £25,000,000 to £34,000,000, or £9,000,000 more than the original bill provided, and that was accepted by the House. 
The Leader of the Opposition also referred to the necessity to increase employment in Australia, and with his contention in that respect, I entirely agree. It is the responsibility of any public man interested in his country to endeavour to ensure that the people are provided with adequate food, clothing, and shelter. Whenthis Government, which was attacked by the Leader of the Opposition, came into office, over 30 per cent. of the registered trade unionists in Australia were out of employment and poverty was rampant. What is the position to-day? In March, 1937, according to the latest figures supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician, only 9.9 per cent. of the registered trade unionists were unemployed, but I believe that more recent figures show that unemployment in Australia is actually below normal. When the Scullin Government was in office the situation was calamitous. The head office of the Savings Bank in New South Wales was compelled to close its doors owing to the rush of depositors wishing to withdraw their money. Money could only be borrowed at exorbitant rates of interest. If a government is to succeed in administering the affairs of the nation, it must first secure the confidence of the people. What is the position in connexion with our secondary industries?  1  am a primary producer, to a greater extent than I am a manufacturer, but I always advocate the active development of our secondary industries, because by encouraging all branches of secondary production, we can provide profitable employment for the people and an improved market for primary produce. In the financial year, 1931-32, the last year of the Scullin Government's regime, the number of factories operating in Australia was 21,627, and the number of factory employees was 336,658. In 1935- 36, the number of factories had increased to 24,895, and the number of factory employees to 492,771. The increase of wages amounted to £27,000,000 per annum and the vailue of production by £52,000,000 per annum. During its last year in office the Scullin Government had a deficit of approximately £11,000,000, whilst the aggregate of Commonwealth and State deficits was £36,000,000. Owing to careful administration the Commonwealth budget has been balanced ever since the Lyons Government hasbeen in power, and during the last financial year some of the State governments also balanced their budgets. During my recent visit to Great Britain, I attended many luncheons and banquets where I met persons in all walks of life; some of them were socialists. Usually the first question put to me concerned the season and production in Australia; but before long I was asked if there was any chance of Lang coming back into power. I could only say that that did not appear likely. I was told by all inquirers that if Lang came back to power British capitalists would not invest any money in Australia. A young country such as Australia must borrow at a reasonable rate of interest in order to develop its resources. Since this Government has been in power £40,000,000 of fresh private capital has been invested in industry in Australia. We have also raised internal loans amounting to £98,000,000 at an interest rate of 4 pelcent, or under, but when Lang and his colleagues were wrecking this country, the Scullin Government could not borrow money even if it was prepared to pay 10 per cent. In addition to avoiding deficits the Lyons Government has increased social services and reduced the national debt by £8,600,000. The courtesy extended to me as a member of the Empire parliamentary delegation is typical of that shown to all Australians. It was particularly noticeable at every function which I attended that the British people have a very high regard for the Australians, largely because we are regarded as honest people who pay our debts. This Government, with the assistance of  Mr. S.  M. Bruce, has been able to convert £200,000,000 of overseas loans at a lower rate of interest and by that means Australia is saving £4,000,000 per annum in respect of interest. Moreover, £14,000,000 has been made available to the States for road construction and maintenance. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that our trade dispute with Japan had been detrimental to the interests of the woolgrowers. I do not think it was. 
I have been closely associated with the wool industry for many years and I cannot agree with the honorable senator. The price was good during the first half of last season's sales, but Japan came on to the market when the market was likely to drop, and purchased 400,000 to 500,000- bales; in consequence prices increased by 10 to 15 per cent. The Leader of the Opposition, who said that we had antagonized the United States of America, a friendly nation, by imposing unnecessarily high duties on American exports, should realize that that country imposes a duty of equal to 16d. per lb. on Australian wool, which is equal to the average price obtained for the last clip. The Government's trade diversion policy was adopted to encourage the expansion of Australian motor building and other industries, and also to give some preference to the Mother country which extends such enormous preferences to Australia. The duties we impose on the produce of the United States of America are infinitesimal when compared with the duties that country imposes on our exports to the United States of America. During my recent visit to Great Britain I was proud that I was an Australian citizen. Honorable senators should realize, that Great Britain is doing more for the peace, progress and prosperity of the world than any other nation has ever done. It is expending from £200,000,000 to £300,000,000 per annum to build up its defence forces to ensure peace. The fact that for fifteen years Great Britain disarmed to such an extent that its very weakness brought it to the verge of war is proof of the extent to which it is prepared to go in the interests of peace. But disarmament became a grave danger to peace. Although I conversed with guests at Buckingham Palace and with the inmates of Salvation Army homes in  Whitechapel,  I never heard complaints concerning the taxes imposed for defence purposes. 
Exactly. Expenditure on defence is the only means by which they can be assured of peace. The Labour party in Australia has never had a defence policy. 
The Scullin Government scrapped the Naval College at 
Jervis Bay, and the Royal Military College at Duntroon; in fact, it scrapped practically the whole navy and army, and left us with nothing. It adopted a coward's policy - for only a coward would make no effort to defend himself  - and  did nothing to assist the Mother Country, which is carrying a heavy burden, not so much to defend its own islands, which cannot be occupied, as to protect the children of the Empire who are scattered throughout the world. I came back with an admiration for British statesmen, and thankful that I, as an Australian, was also a citizen of the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
.- I did not intend to take part in the debate at this stage, but I now feel impelled to do so, in the hope that what I say may be of benefit to not only honorable senators, but also the people of the Commonwealth. 
I am sufficiently optimistic to believe that the ravings which we have heard to-day will not influence the people of this country. I listened attentively to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  - a speech which he regarded as being calm and dispassionate. I admired his calmness; indeed, I was amazed at his lack of enthusiasm! I regret, however, that much of what he said was inaudible to me because of his thumping of the table. Unfortunately, he did not even keep time with his thumpings, which drowned some of the passages that might have interested me. The honorable senator should join the Salvation Army and learn to beat the drum. Statements such  as  were made by the honorable senator who holds so important a position as the leader of a political  party  in this country are to he deprecated. The condition of world affairs to-day makes it imperative that public men should give a lead to the people of Australia by refraining from utterances of a provocative nature. They should use their influence to promote harmony, not dissension, among the Australian people, and also among the peoples of other countries. Only by having a united people in the Commonwealth can we hope to make our proper contribution to the well-being of the world.  We have  only to read of happenings in other countries to realize how essential  it  is that we should engage in vigorous propaganda with a view to creating among our people an atmosphere of friendliness to the peoples of other nations. Public men particularly should refrain from making provocative utterances. 
I am glad to have the honorable senator's endorsement of my remarks, for, on many occasions, he has made most provocative statements in this chamber. At times he appears to overlook the fact that we, in Australia, are few, that the territory which we control, and must defend, is large, and that should we, by any word or action, provoke other nations, we shall bring trouble, not only upon ourselves, but also upon the Mother Country,  which,  for a long time, has been engaged in earnest attempts to promote peace throughout the world. 
No, because its people have been forbearing. Even provocative statements in relation to the Old Country itself have been overlooked. In this connexion, the Leader of  the Opposition  himself is not guiltless,  for,  on many occasions, in this chamber, he has said that we should. put Australia first and let Great Britain look after itself. 
If the honorable senator will look through some  of  his former speeches, as reported  in  Hansard,  he will, I feel sure, find cause  for regret. 
From what I  have  read of the proceedings of  the Imperial  Conference, I have formed  the opinion  that, far from being a dud it  has  been most helpful to every part  of  the Empire. The Conference  gave to the  representatives  of  Australia  an opportunity  to meet men occupying  leading  positions in the British  Empire who are  qualified to speak on subjects which  are of primary importance to the world. Contact with such nien is stimulating and helpful. I am confident that the experience gained by the Prime Minister and other Australian Ministers who attended the Conference will be of great value to Australia and will contribute to the solidarity of the Empire. It is unfortunate that attempts should be made to detract from the value of such visits and conferences. I have heard members of other parliaments attempt to deprecate the work of the Imperial Conference, but when we reflect on the magnificent gesture of disarmament made by Britain in the interests of world peace - a mistaken gesture it proved to be - we cannot but be proud that our race has  been led by such men. The name of Stanley Baldwin, a former Prime Minister of Great Britain, will be revered for . all time because . of what he did in the interests of peace. Fortunately, his successor,  Mr. Neville  Chamberlain, is a man to whom, also, we may confidently look' for great achievements. It has been my privilege to meet both men, and I must admit that, after meeting them, I was content to wear a hat two sizes smaller than formerly. That is the experience of all Australians who go abroad with an open mind. Before leaving Australia, we may be inclined to think that Australians have little or nothing to learn, but when we rub shoulders and exchange views with such men, we are forced to admit that our contribution to Empire and world betterment is small indeed. 
No; a man who, after leaving Great Britain, visits other European countries and gets in touch with their representatives, perhaps by attending conferences, at which 30 ot 40 nations, each with its own problems, are represented, comes away with a broader outlook, and a greater appreciation of the views of other peoples. Thus he refrains from acrimonious and provocative statements, such as those which refer to the people of other races as being inferior. I am a firm believer in conferences between nations as a means of developing international goodwill. If we act not too hastily, but gradually, so that- the results will be permanent, our children and our children's children, if not we ourselves, may look forward to the future with increased hope. 
The Leader of the Opposition was particularly adventurous to-day when he attempted to make political capital out of the. report of the proceedings of the Imperial Conference. He introduced into his speech many subjects not dealt with in the report of the conference, and made a number of statements which can be explained only by the fact that in October or November jousting will commence in .the electoral lists. In the course of his remarks the Leader of the Opposition . charged the Government with the sin of having transferred the burden of taxation from the wealthy to the poorer sections of the community. The honorable gentleman knows that that charge is without foundation; but he has made it so often that he could not refrain from repeating it when discussing the report of the Imperial Conference. If he will search the legislation placed upon the statute-book during the last five or six years, he will be able to read for himself what has been done by this Government to give relief to the poorer sections of the community. He will also find that this Government has consistently introduced customs schedules considerably reducing the ad valorem rates on those commodities which are consumed mainly by the masses of the people. Every working man and working woman in Australia benefited by those reductions. Furthermore, the honorable senator will find that this Government has, at every opportunity, reduced the sales tax on all those things which the average working man consumes or wears. Does he contend that these reductions benefited only the wealthy sections of the community?  His  statement can be construed as having that meaning. He certainly said that taxes which the poorer sections of the community were not called upon to pay had been reduced or removed altogether. I do net deny that; indeed, such action is to the credit of the Government which had the courage to take it. Why did this Government do that? It was in order to encourage the development of industry by releasing capital, which previously flowed into the Treasury in the form of taxes, for investment in industry, thereby providing increased employment. No man occupying so responsible a position as that held by the Leader of the Opposition should lose sight of these facts. Our people are educated to a sufficiently high standard to realize that statements of the nature made by the Leader of the Opposition, when analysed and investigated, are not true. 
The honorable senator also alleged that this Government had not taken any interest in the problem of providing employment for our youth. This is one of the greatest problems confronting Australia to-day. The honorable senator, however, was not justified in making his statement when he knows that a sum of money is to be provided by the Commonwealth to supplement any allocations that might be made by the States with a view to formulating schemes by which this problem could be dealt with. He said that this Government had entirely ignored this problem. I have heard the honorable senator make certain statements in this chamber which would justify my suggesting that he is one of those who, as public men, have said things calculated to aggravate rather than ameliorate this problem. I recall that a few years ago, when I spoke on this subject, I expressed the view that this problem was the most serious confronting Australia, because the future of this country depended, not upon its older people, but upon its youth, and I pointed out the absolute futility and, indeed, the injustice, of the laws of the various States, which debar a large number of our youths, when they left school, from following any occupation which would enable them to become useful citizens. When I made that statement, the honorable senator asked me what I meant, and I replied that I was referring to the laws which restricted the employment of our youth. He then said in effect, " Oh ! You then advocate that the boys should be allowed to scab on their fathers?" I remember that incident so clearly that I do not need to have recourse to the 

 Hansard report of it. Those laws, I still contend, brought a boat the lamentable fact that we have in Australia to-day thousands of bright, intelligent lads who, a few years ago, were anxious to do all they could to become useful citizens, but were prevented by those laws from doing so. They were prevented from accepting, as adults, the responsibility of manhood, and of making' their contributions as citizens towards the welfare and upkeep of the Commonwealth. They were expected to become useful citizens, although the laws to which I have referred virtually prevented them, in the years subsequent to their leaving school, from following any useful occupation. Honorable senators, I feel sure, will admit that that is the case; it is no use talking platitudes.  Senator Collings  definitely said that the Government is doing nothing to-day to ameliorate the condition of these lads. 

 Silting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

This problem has to be dealt with, no matter what it may cost Australia. The damage that has been done already to Australian young manhood is incalculable, and the enormous burden which it has imposed upon the rest of the community is extremely difficult to estimate. This is the more regrettable because it could have been obviated if in recent years State parliaments and industrial leaders had not adopted a very foolish policy. Every one knows that in the natural course of events Australia, being a young country, would have made very rapid progress, and there should have been no difficulty in absorbing the rising generation in useful forms of employment. "Even if the country had not been destined to develop rapidly, ample employment would have been found for the requisite number of skilled workmen to carry on the various industries that have been established. But in a country where the opportunities for development were almost without limit, a country too, that * has made astonishingly rapid progress during the last 20 years, the restrictions imposed on the training of youths in the various industries, has had disastrous consequences. The scarcity of skilled workmen, which has been so acute in recent years, has been responsible for an undue increase of costs of buildings and other commodities, with the result that the cost of living is at least 25 per cent. higher than it would have been if this unfortunate policy of the exclusion of youths from many industries had not been adopted. From time to time we hear of the necessity for going abroad to secure skilled workmen for certain classes of work, whereas if we had been wise we would have had available an adequate uumber of Australians fully trained for all the industries that might have need of them. It is lamentable that, as a result of this foolish policy, we have allowed to grow up in Australia a number of young men for whom apparently there is no prospect of advancement in life. 
SenatorMarwick. - They are Australia's "lost legion." 
That is true. It is safe to say that 98 per cent. of the young men who at the present time are untrained and without work were, in their earlier years, keen to follow an occupation for which their tuition in technical classes had shown their suitability but because of this policy of exclusion they have been shut out, and now are without work or prospects of work. I am not prepared, at the moment, to formulate a plan to remedy this state of affairs, but I feel confident that if the Federal and State Governments approach the problem in a business-likemanner it will be possible to evolve schemes to repair some of the damage that has been done and prevent future mistakes of this nature. It is a subject that might very well occupy the attention of Commonwealth and State legislatures. It is not one purely for the States, because the problem is national in character and its solution lies along the lines of co-operation between the central and State governments. I hope that the Commonwealth Government will take whatever steps may be necessary to ensure the success of schemes for the absorption of our unemployed youths in Australian industries. 
One of Australia's outstanding needs is more population. This subject was discussed at some length by the Imperial Conference, and action along the lines indicated would be of direct benefit to the Empire and the world generally. The sparseness ofAustralia's population is the subject of frequent comment in countries overseas. The most important of our industries are those associated with the land, and they depend upon an adequate supply of suitable labour. In my own state there has been a considerable amount of closer settlement with the result that certain areas which, in other circumstances, would have been absolutely worthless, are thickly populated and producing a great amount of wealth. Unfortunately, for reasons which I shall not now discuss, the people engaged in those industries are trembling on the verge of disaster. They are in urgent need of assistance, financial and otherwise, to enable them to sell their surplus products in the world's markets in competition with similar industries of other countries. If we can devise satisfactory means to keep these industries going, we shall do something to retain our present population and, indeed, to increase it. 
Any honorable senator who cares to peruse the official statistics relating to the increase of population in Australia must wonder how long we can refrain from considering the serious decline of the birth-rate in Australia. Official figures show that ten or twelve years ago, when our population was 1.000,000 less than it is to-day, the natural increase was about 84,000 annually. To-day, with a population larger by 1,000,000 people, the natural increase is only 51,000. This matter has been the subject of discussions at health and other conferences from time to time. I have given careful study to all that has been said, and I have been surprised at the reluctance on the part of those taking part in such conferences to speak plainly about the most important factor responsible for the decline of the natural increase of population. Is it their intention not to tell the people of Australia the truth about this matter? If it is not, why  do  they  hide the  truth and thus lose the opportunity to create public opinion, which alone, I am afraid, will bring about a cessation of a practice that is a menace to Australia, in that it is directly responsible for a decline of the birth-rate, and also, to some extent, encourages the growth of worthless adults. When I get evidence from medical men of the appalling condition of our young womanhood in some parts of the Commonwealth I, as a public man, feel that at all costs we should endeavour to create a public opinion that will bring about an abolition of a practice that has produced such a calamitous state of affairs. 
We have heard a good deal in this debate aboutthe defence of Australia. A few days ago the Leader of the Senate presented to this chamber a review of the proceedings of the Imperial Conference - which was attended by the Right Honorable the Prime Minister and other Commonwealth Ministers. In the course of that review  Senator Pearce  outlined the conclusions of the conference on the subject of Imperial defence. We also had a statement to-day from the Leader of the Opposition, setting forth in detail, up to a certain point, the defence policy of the Australian Labour party. I do not want to fall foul of our Labour friends intheir endeavours, if they are honest, to see that Australia is adequately defended ; but when I read in their socalled defence policy that in no circumstances must Australia attempt to defend the Empire of which we form a part, I am impelled to cross swords with them. 
I heard the honorable gentleman say definitely that the Labour party did not favour sending any troops abroad. 
Exactly. From my knowledge of history, I stress that we should always be prepared to take action without delay if danger should threaten us. I cannot imagine any important country being served honestly and faithfully by a policy which would require protective measures to be delayed until all the procedureof a referendum on the question of whether or not the war should be fought had been completed. For that reason, the efforts which the Commonwealth Government is now making to ensure that our defence policy will be practically effective, even though it be expensive, are worthy of approbation and support. 
No; every one of them went of his own free will; each man volunteered for service abroad. All power to them! The Australian troops put Australia on the map and through their magnificent heroism and sacrifice, we attained the status of a nation. Such a status carries with it many privileges; but it also entails heavy responsibilities which we cannot afford to ignore. That is my impression of Australia, a nation. 
I desire now to refer briefly to the enemy within our gates. It is high time that speakers informed the public of the growth of communism in our midst. Our Commonwealth is more richly endowed by providence than any other country; we enjoy more blessings to the square foot than any other country possesses to the square yard. Unfortunately, our society is being honeycombed by Communist organizations whose object is to bring about the downfall of all that we hold dear. The Labour party is fully aware of the fact that if it is to win an election in Australia, it must have the Communist vote. Without such support it cannot gain the treasury bench, although, I believe that it will not succeed at the next federal elections, even with the aid of the Communists. 
When in Brisbane recently, I attended a public meeting in the great City Hall for the purpose of listening to an address by  Mr. Curtin.  I noticed that at the entrance, the public was offered - andpractically every person accepted - a leaflet by men employed by the Communist organization. Those pamphlets urged people to vote for the Labour party - and to make  Mr. Curtin  the next Prime Minister. Why? The Communists hope that, by force of numbers, they will be able to bring pressure to bear on a Labour Government in order to effect an alteration of our present social order by the substitution of a communistic state. 
With that action of the Lyons' Government, I am not dealing. I am fully alive to the lengths to which that organization is prepared to go in order to gain its objective in Australia. I have read extensively the Communist propaganda which is circulating in Melbourne. 
No; but I blame the Labour party for accepting the help of the Communists. 
I shall substitute the words " apparently accepting the help of the Communist organization by allowing the distribution of communistic literature at a public meeting addressed by  Mr. Curtin."  If that is not an acceptance of help, I do not know what would be. In my possession, I have sufficient material to enable me to talk on communism for an hour. I know the dangers of this organization, and that it is on the alert. It has been raised to such a point of perfection now, that in every city and in every town where manufacturing is being carried on, communistic agents are actively engaged in endeavours to capture the imagination of a certain type of educated young women. The object is to encourage the women to enter factories to form communistic cells among the workers. 
Yes. I know of a young woman, who was formerly employed in the Education Department of a certain State, and whose imagination was captured by Australian Communists. Resigning her position in the department, she became a factory hand, with the avowed object of creating a Communist cell in that industry. Labour senators have read this literature, and are well aware of the instructions contained therein. They know that, if ever that organization gets its way, immense internal difficulties in industry, such as other unfortunate countries are now experiencing, will follow. The Government must, by all means in its power, endeavour to prevent this organization from carrying on its nefarious practices in this fair land which we hold so dear. We claim it to be the home of free men and women, and we desire, above all things, that it shall be retained as such. 
In conclusion, I congratulate the Commonwealth delegation- which so ably represented us in the onerous duty of debating important international subjects at the Imperial Conference. 
I shall endeavour, to the utmost of my power, to deal calmly and logically with the number of subjects brought under our notice by the propaganda speech of  Mr. Joseph  Aloysius Lyons which was read to honorable senators by the Minister for External Affairs  (Senator Pearce).  The Imperial Conference of 1933 resolved- 
It is the prime responsibility of each part of the Empire to provide for its own local defence. 
Since then, that resolution has been reaffirmed. So far as my experience of the Labour movement enables me to speak, we are still in hearty agreement with that principle. This debate is not a matter of defence versus no defence, as some of ouropponents would like to make out. They have been very crude in their accusations against the Labour movement; but every thinking man and woman who reads  Mr. Curtin's  speech onthe defence policy of the Labour party will readily perceive that the Labour movement and the Government are equally desirous of ensuring that Australia shall be thoroughly and efficiently defended. I do not understand the mentality of honorable senators who, after contending that we should lift the matter of defence beyond the level of ordinary political argument, deliberately lie in regard to the policy of the Opposition. It is plain that the real difference between the Labour party and the Government lies in the fact that we pin our faith to an extension of the air arm. On the other hand, the Government proposes to build two more cruisers; possibly they are essential, for our navy, although larger than the fleets  of South Africa, Canada and New Zealand, is small. Yet Australia actually spends more money on its navy than the combined appropriations ofthe other dominions. The Government adopts the attitude that we must concentrate more on the development of the navy than on the extension of the air arm. For certain reasons outlined by  Mr. Curtin,  the Labour party has expressed its faith in the development of the air force. In my opinion, there is no reason why the Government supporters should raise such a hullabaloo because the Labour party has pinned its faith to that policy. The only reason that I can discover for the heated speeches made in this chamber, and in the House of Representatives, on Labour's defence policy is that the Government and its supporters are anxious to make political capital out of this matter. I do not for one moment assert that they are " rabble-rousers " - that would be an insult to Australian democracy - but, at the same time, even in a democracy people can be bluffed at election time into accepting something which is not right; and evidently the Government, fully understanding this human weakness in our modern democracy, proposes to use this means to further its ambition to be returned to the treasury -bench. If Government supporters were fair, they would not descend to the silly deba ting-school tactics of  Senator Hardy, Senator Pearce,  and various interjectors. 
No ; but I desire honorable senators to exercise their Godgiven brains in an intelligent manner. I deplore the many foolish interjections that have been made, largely,  Mr. Deputy President,  because of your extreme leniency. I propose now to read clause  e,  paragraph 23, of the platform and objective of the Labour party. 
Yes; I should be pleased if honorable senators, instead of talking so stupidly as they have done to-day about Labour's aims, would analyse and digest the contents of this booklet. I fail to understand why such intense heat should be generatedin this debate, unless it be due to that dynamic force, the desire of honorable senators to win political preferment. We should proceed with the discussion of the defence of Australia like good Australians, anxious only for the welfare of this country. A plank of the Labour party's platform reads - 
No raising of forces for service outside the Commonwealth or for participation infuture overseas wars except by the decision of the people. 
That is of the essence of modern democracy. We. give to the people the right to say whether they shall or shall not take part in any overseas conflict. According to the speeches delivered by some honorable senators opposite and interjections made when the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  was so ably expounding the defence policy of the Labour party, it is the intention of the Government to disregard the will of the people and to send forces overseas under any circumstance. But the Labour party believes that the people who pay the taxes by which the administration of the country is financed should say whether they will or will not participate in an embroglio in Europe or elsewhere. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  who is an ex-Minister for Defence, foolishly asked if, during an attack upon Australia, a Labour government would allow bombers to operate beyond the three mile limit. I am surprised that this socalled statesman should ask such a stupid question. 
I shall give the answer.  Senator Hardy,  the Leader of the Country party in this chamber, for whom I have a great deal of respect, also asked whether the bombers would be equipped with elastic to prevent them, when chasing an invading plane, from going beyond the three-mile limit. It is difficult to understand why a responsible representative of the Australian people should ask such a stupid question. 
If bombers -were engaged with, invaders they would probably have to go beyond that limit. The Australian people know that the Labour party is anxious to organize the defence forces in order to defend Australia, which is a country worth defending. 
The capable Leader of the Labour party in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin),  in explaining the defence policy of the party, said, " I do not urge that we should scrap our navy or that we should not maintain it at its present strength." Notwithstanding that definite statement  Senator Hardy  said that a Labour government would sell the vessels of the Australian Navy to Japan as scrap iron. The Labour party, which was responsible for the establishment of the Australian navy, would not think of doing anything so foolish. 
The objectives of the Labour party have not changed since from what they were when its supporters in this chamber included  Senator Pearce, Senator Plain  and  Senator Lynch.  Although the Government speaks so freely of the necessity to defend Australia, what has it done to ensure its protection? During the six years it has been in power provision should have been made for the manufacture of all the arms and munitions Australia is likely to require, instead of purchasing, as it has been doing, hundreds of thousands of pounds worth from other countries. Although we have been told that the air force is an auxiliary of the navy, the Sydney  Bulletin  has said, and leading authorities contend, that many of the planes now used by the Defence Department were obsolete before they were purchased from private companies. A Sydney manufacturer stated recently that suitable gauges so essential in the manufacture of munitions and other war material are not available. If existing factories are to be used for the production of war material the Government should have standard gauges so that parts made in Brisbane will be interchangeable with parts made in Melbourne.  Senator Brand  as an experienced campaigner knows that in war one of the main essentials is a trans port system by which troops may be moved , rapidly from one part of the country to "another. The policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  six years ago, and also that presented three years later, promised that the railway gauges would be standardized. ' 
It is true that about 56 miles of new railway of standard gauge has been constructed. What has been done here, however, compares very unfavorably with the achievements of European countries which are controlled by dictators. It is no wonder that democracy is becoming a laughing stock. I suppose that the Government means well ; but if it had been in earnest it would have ensured the construction of more than 56 miles of railway of standard gauge in six years. By parity of reasoning, how long will it take the Government to build a fleet capable of defending Australia ? 
The Government accuses the ' Labour party of having no defence policy, but what has it done to ensure supplies of oil fuel which is so essential to the defence of Australia? How much oil is in storage in Australia ; how many plants have been erected to extract oil from shale, or coal, or vegetable matter? It is true that the Government proposes to devote a considerable sum to assist a private company to extract oil from shale, but many difficulties will have to be overcome before oil is produced at Newnes in any considerable quantity. Were the Government really in earnest in regard to the defence of Australia, it would years ago have established plants which by this time would have been producing large quantities of oil. At a Nazi conference recently, Herr Hitler stated that within three years Germany would be independent of oil from outside sources. Germany realizes the need for providing its own supplies of oil fuel, and has taken action to ensure that they will be available. That has been done under a dictatorship; but in Australia, the Lyons Government has not, done more than make promise after promise. Now, in order to divert attention from its inactivity in this direction, the Government is endeavouring to turn the people against the Labour party. It  is the old old story of the man who has failed, abusing the other fellow. 
I am dealing, not with the Labour party, but with the failure of the present Government to take steps which are essential to the defence of Australia. 
That does not excuse the failure of the Government to develop transport to meet the requirements of an emergency. 
His view was that the troops could rest while the transfer of equipment took place. The logical deduction from that argument is that the more breaks of gauge we have the better will our railway transport system be because the troops will have more opportunities to rest. 
That is so. I admire him greatly ; but even a practical soldier may make mistakes, as was, unfortunately, proved on numerous occasions during the Great War. 
In the opinion of the Labour party, armaments and munitions should he made by the nation, so that no incentive shall be given to private manufacturers to make profits. I know that in many countries the making of armaments has been left to the racketeers of death. Reports by various committees which have investigated this matter show that the great armament firms of the world are closely interlocked.  Mr. Pethick  Lawrence, M.P., of England, has shown that since Britain embarked on a policy of rearmament, there has been a rapid rise in the value of shares in armament companies. According to him - 
John Brown's 6s. ordinary shares stood at 19s. 3d. in November, 1935, and now stand at 40s., an increase of no less than 108 per cent. Cammell Laird's 5s. ordinary shares stood at 7s. 6d. in November, 1935, and to-day stand at 16s., an increase of 113 per cent. Hadfleld's 10s. ordinary shares stood at 18s. fid. in November, 1935, and to-day stand at 40s. 6d., an increaseof 119 per cent. Vickers' 6s. 8d. ordinary shares, which stood at 19s. 9d. in November, 1935, stand at 37s. to-day, an increase of 87 per cent. 
Labour believes that the manufacture of the munitions necessary for the safeguarding of the nation should not be entrusted to profit-making private enterprise. The  Canberra Times  of to-day contains the following paragraph: - 
I add my congratulations to the Government, and express my admiration for the very interesting report which the Prime Minister has submitted concerning his mission overseas. I ask for leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I take this opportunity to make a few remarks regarding the matter of migration, in view of the statements made in this chamber earlier to-day, and in the press earlier in the week, which, in the opinion of myself and my informants, are not in accordance with facts. Any statement to the effect that migrants are being brought to Australia, to be sent to Queensland with the consent of the Queensland Government, is not true. Such a statement has been made in this chamber, with the result that it is generally understood throughout Australia that the alien migrants who are proceeding to the sugar-fields are going there at the request of the Queensland Government. 
I am referring to statements which have appeared in the press during the last few weeks. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  wrote to the Premier of Queensland on the 16th September, 1936, following the informal discussion at the Premiers Conference at Adelaide, putting forward the following proposals :  - 
The following suggestions appear to my Government as being worthy of consideration. In submitting these, the Commonwealth desires to emphasize that all applications for assisted passages would, of course, first be submitted by the individuals or organizations concerned to the States for approval: - 
the grant of assisted passages might now be extended to relatives of persons already resident in Australia; 
if it be the desire of any State that female household workers and/or youths for farm work be introduced, the Commonwealth will arrange for their introduction, upon receipt nf requisitions ; 
persons of British stock resident in the United Kingdom who would be in possession of - 
in the case of a married man, not less than £300 capital on arrival in Australia, or, alternatively, a pension or other income of not less than £100 per annum; and 
ii ) in the case of a single man, not less than £50 capital on arrival ; might be given the same benefits in respect of assisted passages as are contemplated in regard to nominated migrants. 
In January, 1937, the Prime Minister advised that his Government was prepared to set the scheme in motion to the extent desired by Queensland. He was advised that, so soon as the Queensland Government was in a position to receive, as migrants, relatives nominated by persons already resident in Australia, and youths for farm work, advice would be sent. 
I am not referring only to the statement made by the Leader of the Senate to-day. 
Following complaints from the Queensland Police Department and from the Queensland Department of Labour and Industry that large numbers of aliens were becoming a burden upon the Queensland unemployment relief funds, the Minister for Labour and Industry in Queensland, the Honorable M. P. Hynes, M.L.A., criticized the action of the Commonwealth in allowing large numbers of alien migrants to enter Queensland and become a charge on the government. Surely, the Leader of the Government does not desire to impress me with the idea that he is unaware of statements made in the press during recent weeks regarding the arrival of aliens and, most recently, of the published criticism of passengers on the  Otranto  concerning the physique and mentality of alien migrants travelling on that vessel. 
It was asserted that no alien migrants were admitted to Queensland without the approval of the Queensland Government. The Minister for Labour and Industry showed that such was not the case and that a letter written by the Prime Minister on the 24th November, 1936; stated in reply to representations from Queensland - 
Every application is considered on its merits, having regard to the relationship of the nominee to the guarantor, the latter's occupation and financial standing, the intended occupation of the nominee and whether his employment is likely to be detrimental to an Australian worker. Due consideration is given to reports of unemployment in any particular district, and, in this connexion, it may be mentioned that quite a number of applications have been refused where the nominees proposed to proceed to the  canefields  in North Queensland. . . . 
It is not practicable for the Commonwealth authorities to exercise a check to ensure that the undertakings are honoured in all cases, but suitable action is taken in any cases  which  come under notice where the nominees have become a charge upon State funds. 

 Mr. Hynes went on to say that these extracts proved that the Commonwealth authorities make the decision, and that the State has no say in the matter, other than to provide through its police the means for the Commonwealth authorities to make inquiries.  Mr. Hynes  continued - 
The true position is, as set out in a letter which I, as Acting Premier, forwarded to the Prime Minister on 4th November, 1930, that these applications are generally submitted to the Commonwealth investigating officer resident in each State, who transmits them to the local police, with a request for a police report on same. 
It has been noticed in this State that, during the past twelve months, the number of these reports has been increasing, although it is not known what is the ultimate decision in the various applications. 
Representations have been repeatedly made to the Commonwealth authorities in this regard, but without satisfactory results. It is, therefore, futile for the Minister for .the Interior to claim that the onus of deciding whether these people shall be admitted to Queensland is upon the Queensland authorities. The position is that Queensland has no say in the matter, but when these people become destitute they become a charge upon the State, and the Commonwealth authorities simply fold their arms and dd nothing. 
On the 1st July, 1937, the Premier of Queensland  (Mr. Forgan Smith)  said - 
I have not yet had an opportunity of investigating all the statements made recently by  Mr. Paterson,  the Federal Minister for the Interior, on migration to North Queensland, but one glaring misstatement of fact was that the Commonwealth never admitted an alien  unless the Queensland police reported favorably. 
I am officially informed of a case in which application was made in my own State for the admission of an alien woman. The Queensland police reported unfavorably regarding the application, yet the woman was permitted to land at Fremantle. 
The Minister for the Interior had asserted that the Commonwealth made inquiries through the Queensland police as to the character and standing of nominators, but the difficulty in Queensland was that aliens admitted into other States on Commonwealth landing permits made their way into Queensland, and thu* entered the State without any inquiry by Queensland police. The addition to Queensland's alien population in this way was considerable. 
If the instance I have mentioned is any criterion of the others, then I can only say that  Mr. Paterson  is furnishing unreliable information on a subject of public importance. 
The Premier of Queensland said, on the 16th July, 1937, that a general tightening-up of the immigration laws was urgently needed, and he was satisfied that the case which he would submit to the Federal Government would justify immediate action. He emphasized that alien migration could not be controlled by the States, which were not consulted by the Commonwealth Government in regard to the admission of aliens. The States, he added, were never informed of the terms of an application for an admission of any particular alien or of the names of his or her guarantors. 
The Brisbane  Telegraph  of the 5th August, 1937, gave the following as the overseas migration figures for the six months ended June, 1937 : - 
Overseas migration for the six months ended June, 1937, resulted in a loss of 358 in Queensland's population, according to figures made available by the Commonwealth Statistician yesterday. The arrivals in the State totalled 2,157, while the departures numbered 2,515. The Commonwealth's loss of population caused by overseas migration was 3,443; the arrivals numbering 33,913, and the departures 37,356. 
Arrivals of Southern Europeans were 1,246 greater than the departures, but this was more than offset by a substantial excess of departures over arrivals of people of British nationality and other Europeans. 
What a nice state of affairs! 
In the corresponding six months of last year, the excess of arrivals of Southern Europeans over departures totalled 905. The Statistician's report has revealed that 926 Italians arrived in the first six months of 1937, and that 518 Italians formerly resident in Australia departed during the same period. There was therefore an excess of Italian arrivals over departures of 408. 
The  Courier-Mail,  of the 19th July, 1937, stated in a leading article - 
The Premier has raised this question with the Commonwealth Government, and has probably been induced to do so because of Queensland's particular attraction of Italian migrants, who constitute the largest element of its foreign population. The 1933 census revealed that Queensland had then more residents of foreign European birth than any other State. Figures compiled from the census returns are as follows: - Queensland, 20,416; New South Wales, 26,286; Victoria, 19,677; Western Australia, 12,641 ; South Australia, 6,829; Tasmania, 675. The figures for Queensland and New South Wales show only a small difference, but when they are related to the total populations of the two States they disclose that Europeans of foreign birth in Queensland in 1933 amounted to nearly 2.8 per cent. of the population, while in New South Wales they amounted to only a little more than 1 per cent. The 1933 census returns also showed that Queensland then had more residents of Italian birth than any other State, namely, 8,355, compared with6,319 in New South Wales, 5,860 in Victoria and 4,588 in Western Australia; and that this State also had more people unable to read and write English, but able to read and write a foreign language, than any other State. The number for Queensland was 8,856, nearly 2,000 more than in New South Wales, and it included 4,116 Italians. 
Generally, the position is that aliens can land at any port in the Commonwealth, and, without any check on the part of any one, may move from State to State; thus the population of a State may he increased by many thousands of aliens without assent to their admission by the State or even the Commonwealth authorities. The Premier of Queensland said on the 7th July, 1937, that it was not right that the Commonwealth should have full control of the admission of migrants. He suspected that there was a " ring " to provide the necessary landing money for alien migrants. 
I felt that I should not neglect this opportunity to submit this convincing evidence of what is happening in connexion with migration. The position that has arisen is detrimental to my State because of the impression that  ha3  been created that the State Government has done nothing to prevent the influx of alien migrants. That is positively untrue and I resent it. I also wish to make it clear that if there is a change of government in the Commonwealth following the forthcoming appeal to the electors, we shall show the people what can be done with the migration problem. It is a part of our policy that not a single individual shall come to this country from overseas if he will need a job when he gets here, until every decent Australian able and willing to work has been found a job. 
[9.24].- The Leader of the Opnosition  (Senator Collings)  at the outset of his remarks referred to a statement made in the Senate. That was the one made by me this morning in reply to a question by  Senator Guthrie.  I invite the honorable gentleman to examine it and tell the Senate if he can find any fault with it, or if it is in any particular inaccurate. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Later the honorable senator said that he was referring to something that had been said somewhere outside this Parliament. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE No Government is responsible for statements made by private individuals outside the Parliament. I am quite sure that the Minister for the Interior did not say that the Government of Queensland was responsible for the introduction of aliens into Australia. The honorable senator will not be able to find substantiation anywhere for that allegation. If any such statement was published it was cer- tainly  not made by a member of the Government. -The Leader of the Opposition quoted from a speech made by  Mr. Hynes,  who was acting-Premier of Queensland during the absence of  Mr. Forgan  Smith, alleging that a large number of aliens which had been admitted by the Commonwealth Government into Queensland had become a charge on the public funds. That statement certainly attracted the attention of the Commonwealth Government, because prior to the issue of landing permits, it had taken the steps to satisfy itself that responsible people in Queensland would guarantee that any aliens admitted would not become a charge on the Government. Queensland Government officials had been asked in every instance to make inquiries in the different districts to ascertain whether the nominators would be able to honour their undertaking. The Queensland police, as has been admitted in the correspondence, made these inquiries. If they reported that the nominators of applicants for admission were not in a position to fulfil their guarantee, permission to enter the Commonwealth was- refused. The only exception was in respect of a man who applied for permission to bring into this country his wife and children. In that case, we caused inquiries to be made as to whether he was a reputable citizen ; if ho was the application would be granted. Following upon the stateMont recently that large numbers of foreign migrants were becoming a charge on the public funds in Queensland, the Minister for the Interior asked the Queensland Government to furnish the particulars of such cases. Five names were received and on inquiries being made it was found that all five men had been in Australia for more than five years, three being naturalized British subjects. It must be . remembered also, that we have been passing through a depression, and we may assume that naturalized' and alien citizens suffered in common with the rest of the community. It is well known, that during the depression large numbers of very deserving people were reduced to poverty, but only five aliens have come on the Queensland Government funds. Apparently these five are " the large numbers " who, it has been said, have sought government assistance. If the Queensland Government had known of large numbers why did it not supply the names ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The list is in the Department of the Interior. I invite the Leader of the Opposition to examine it. He will find that the Queensland Government was unable to furnish the facts upon which such a loose allegation was made about the " large numbers " of aliens who had become a charge on government funds. Therefore, there is nothing upon which he can base an attack on the Government with regard to alien migrants. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Has the Leader of the Senate any information to give to the Senate concerning the statement appearing in this morning's press to the effect that the British Ambassador in China hasbeen wounded? 
On the 25th August  Senator E.  B. Johnston asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice :  - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a speech madeby the Honorable G.J. W. Miles. M.L.C., in the Western Australian Parliament (reported in the  West Australian  of the 12th instant) criticizing the reported attitude of the Federal Government towards the development of the iron deposits at Yampi Sound? 
Is it a fust, as suggested, Unit the Federal Government has refused the remission under by-law of duties on any of the machinery required forYampi? 
Is the Minister in a position to relieve any anxiety which exists in Western Australia us to the Government's intentions in this matter ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has furnished the following information: - 
Yes. 2 and 3. About three years ago a joint Japanese-Western Australian deputation waited on the Minister for Trade and Customs and requested the exemption from customs duties under by-law of machinery and equipment of Japanese manufacture which might be imported for use in the development of iron ore deposits at Yampi Sound. The granting of concessions such as that sought is subject to the condition that plant or equipment of the class or kind of that to he imported is not being commercially manufactured, firstly, in Aus tralia, and, secondly, in the United Kingdom. In view of the general nature of the request, and of the probability that much of the plant would be of a class or kind capable of commercial manufacture in Australia and the United Kingdom, the request was refused by the Minister. No specific request for by-law concession has since been received. Any such specific request would, if made, be dealt with in accordance with the general principles governing the granting of by-law concessions. 
If the Government should decide to propose to Parliament the re-constitution of the Public Accounts Committee, will it consider the desirability of doing so more on the lines of the British system? Will the Government also see if some of the reforms recommended by the Joint Select Committee on Public Accounts in 1932 can be adopted? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The matters mentioned by the honorable senator will be taken into consideration should the occasion arise. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
Will the Government consider the advisability of the re-establishment of a Public 
Accounts Committee such as was in operation up to May, 1932? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE This matter will receive consideration at a future date. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
In view of the great losses suffered through the rabbit invasion and the present high cost of netting, will the Government renew its past policy of making advances through the State governments at a low rate of interest for the purchase of netting? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.A reply will be furnished as soon . as possible. 
asked the Minister in charge of Development,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received a lengthy and interesting communication from the  President  of the Senate  (Senator Lynch)  recommending a proposal to assist gold prospecting in Western Australia, by the creation of a fund, subscribed by the Federal and State Governments and the Western Australian mining companies, from which advances would be made to prospecting parties, to be repaid out of resultant gold finds? 
If so, would the Minister and the Government give early and favorable consideration to  Senator Lynch's  proposal, if it is considered that its effective working would give profitable employment to many experienced miners now excluded from deep mining on account of their health? 
The  President  of the Senate  (Senator Lynch)  has been informed that the fact that the Commonwealth Government is generally in accord with his views is evidenced by the policy which it has adopted towards the mining industry during recent years. During 1935, the Commonwealth agreed to co-operate with the States in a scheme which was designed to stimulate the development of the metalliferous mining industry on a nation-wide basis. The Commonwealth provided £500,000 for this purpose, spread over a period of three years, which will expire on the 30th June, 1938. One of the purposes for which these moneys were made available was the assistance of prospecting. 
The Western Australian quota of the Commonwealth provision of £500,000 was £106,400, £66,800 of which was allocated for prospecting. The scheme has proved an important factor in the achievement of gratifying results. Since it came into operation, direct employment has been provided in the mining industry for an additional 8,000 men, and the value of gold production has increased from £7,544,491 in 1934 to £10,172,420 in 1936, and £5,647,782 in the first six months of 1937. In addition to the metalliferous mining scheme, the Commonwealth Government is co-operating with the Governments of Queensland and Western Australia in an aerial, geological and geophysical survey of Northern Australia. The Commonwealth provision for this survey was £75,000, and the States each provided £37,500. In effect, this financial provision results in the expenditure in this regard by the States being subsidized by the Commonwealth to the extent of 331/3 per cent, so far as their territories are concerned. The pooling of the resources of three governments in connexion with this survey enables the employment of the most up-to-date scientific methods, including those of aerial photography and geophysics, whose cost would probably be beyond the reach of any single government. This survey is materially benefiting the mining industry in the territories concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Have the owners of the recently-arrested Japanese vessels put in a bill of costs for the towing of the disabled  Larrakia  into Darwin?  The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answer :  - 
No. The  Larrakia  came into Darwin under its own power. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that estimates recently made by the Apple and Pear Export Council of Australia show that the aggregate additional costs through increases in cost of wrapping paper, cases and additions to wages,&amp;c, will amount to £78,125, on the export quota alone, for the marketing of the crop for the 1938 season ? 
In considering the continuance of the apple and pear bounty for 1938, will the Minister, in arriving at the amount of bounty to be provided, give full consideration to the estimated increase of costs that will have to be borne by the fruit-growers for the season under review? 
The Minister  for Commerce has supplied  the following  answers :  - 
Yes. 
Yes. 
asked  the Minister  representing the Minister for Trade  and  Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister had his attention called to the statements made in the  Argus  of the 25th instant - 
That the manufacturers of galvanized iron are from three to four months behind in their commitments. 
That in some cases orders for steel sheets will be accepted subject to delivery in about eight months from receipt of order. 
That delivery of steel plates cannot be given for a period of eight to  twelve months. 
That for special large-sized steel plates acceptance of orders is subject to rolling about SeptemberOctober next year? 
If the above statements are correct, what attitude does the Government propose to take in order to make supplies available within a more reasonable time? 
The  information is being obtained. 
[11.17].-  I move- 
That thebill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to provide that the qualification of electors of the Australian Dairy Produce Board shall be conferred only on those persons who are enrolled on the Commonwealth Electoral Roll in accordance with the provisions of Part VII. of the Commonwealth Electoral Act  1918-1934.  By an amendment of the Dairy Produce Export Control Act in  1935  the Australian Dairy Produce Board was created. The constitution of this Board is - One government nominee ; one elected by the Federal Council ofthe Australian Dairy Factory Managers' and Secretaries' Association; two elected by Owners of Proprietary and Privatelyowned Butter and Cheese Factories; two elected to represent Co-operative Butter and Cheese factories in each of the States of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland; one elected to represent Cooperative Butter and Cheese factories in each of the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania, one elected by producers in each of the States of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland ; and one elected by producers of the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. In all these cases, with the obvious exception of the government nominee, election is as prescribed. 
Turning now to the regulations to ascertain the manner in which these elections are conducted, we find that for the elected representative of the Federal Council of the Australian Dairy Factory Managers' and Secretaries' Association, the secretary of that council must furnish to the Chief Electoral Officer a list of the names and addresses of the members of that council, and that list is deemed to be the roll for that election. For the election of the representatives of the co-operative butter and cheese factories, all producers are entitled to vote who supplied, during the year preceding the election,milk or cream to any co-operative butter or cheese factory in the State in which they were producing. It is also provided that a producer entitled to vote for co-operative representatives, as well as for all other representatives of which I have made mention, shall, before his name is placed on a roll in respect of any of these elections, lodge with the returning officer certain prescribed forms attesting his eligibility to vote as an owner or a producer. It will be seen from this, therefore, that there is no question of basic eligibility of the voter to comply with the first principles of citizenship: ie., that ho should be qualified to have his name enrolled on the Commonwealth electoral rolls. Thus a man not having this qualification as an Australian citizen, is nevertheless entitled to record his vote as to who should or should not be elected a representative on the Australian -Dairy " Produce Board. It is to remove this anomaly that the present bill is brought down and I commend it to the favorable consideration of honorable senators. 
Qestion resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause  1  agreed to. 
Clause  2  (Australian Dairy Produce Board). 
I understand that the law of some foreign countries takes no cognizance of the fact that their nationals have become naturalized Australian citizens. That is to say, the status of such persons, so far as the laws of those countries are concerned, remains unaltered. For that reason we should not encourage a person to become a voter in Australia for the purpose of exercising a voice in the control of an important industry if he be still subject to the law of the land of his birth. He may be conscripted by the other government for service abroad. Before a person is permitted to exercise a vote in connection with the direction of any Australian industry he should be wholly an Australian citizen; he should become assimilated in the Australian community so that ultimately his descendants will lose their foreign identity and associations. If it be too late now to consider that matter in con- nexion with this bill, I .hope that the Government will give attention to it in the future, and make special enquiries to determine what nations insist that their nationals, even though they become naturalized citizens of another country, shall retain their original nationality. 
[11.23].- I shall certainly bring  the  honorable senator's remarks under the notice of the Minister for the Interior. If the Government proposed to take any fiction in this respect, it  could  not do so through this bill; it would be obliged to  amend  the Nationality Act. 
 Can the leader of the Senate give us any indication of the number of persons who will be affected by this provision? So far as I am aware, comparatively few persons are involved, and therefore it seems to be rather paltry to single them out, as is done in this measure. Doubtless there is some more important reason for this amendment than appears on the surface of it. At the present time a minor, if he were a dairyman, would be given a vote, and possibly a person who is not a British subject would also be eligible; but the numbers must be very few. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [11.25].  -  I assure the Honorable senator that the Government has not acted without advice on this matter. Although comparatively few  persons  will be affected by the provisions of this bill, ;i. considerable number will be affected by a similar measure, which will presently lie before the Senate. If it were not for this provision there would be sufficient unnaturalized aliens in some areas of Australia to decide an election for the Dried Fruits Export Control Board. 
.- I ask the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  whether those persons engaged in the industry who are to  be  m.ade ineligible to vote foi' the election of members  of  the Board will be released from their obligation to pool their butter? This provision does not seem to me to be quire fair. While the aliens will be subjected to all the restrictions in regard to the export of butter and the price of this commodity, they will not be pcr- mitted to exercise a, vote. 
That will take some years. The matter seems too small to warrant a bill of this kind, particularly as it will not affect many people. A citizen of the United States of America might decide to invest a considerable sum of money in a dairy farm in Australia; but he would not be entitled to exercise a vote in the control of the industry. In view of the fact that an overwhelming percentage of the persons engaged in the industry are Australians, their numbers would be sufficient to counteract any detrimental effects that might possibly result from a block alien vote. This prohibition is not a friendly gesture towards foreign nationals. If there were present any great danger to the community, I could see reason, for the incorporation of this provision. 
We have encouraged them to settle in Australia; if they are prepared to comply with our conditions and standard of living we want similar settlers in increasing numbers. For sentimental reasons some of them may not desire to relinquish their alien nationality. In this matter a hard business proposition is involved, and while the alien producers are subjected to the disabilities of control, they should have some voice in the framing of the policy. 
Some use one terra and some another; in the end both amount to the same thing; it is merely  a  matter of terminology. The introduction of a bill of this description to disfranchise a few decent people is .like using a steam hammer to crack a nut. 
 As one who cannot be suspected of having hostile feeling towards other countries I welcome this provision. It is a fundamental rule that a man who is a member of a board  constitutedby the law of the land shall be a national of that country. 
It might easily happen that an alien would be elected to the board. As has been indicated by interjection, these aliens are entitled to become naturalized Australian citizens ; naturalization should be a  sine qua non  of a person having any control of the industry in which he is engaged. As to the matter that  Senator Leckie  raised, I take it that unquestionably the aliens, even if disfranchised, will be required to comply with the provisions of the act. I cannot imagine that any country would permit a person who is not a naturalized citizen of it to possess powers which might lead to his becoming actually one of the controllers of an important industry. The principle contained in this clause is sound, and if it is to be applied to other industries, that is a greater reason why honorable senators should support it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
[11.32].- I move- 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is the same as that of the measure with which the Senate has just dealt, but in the dried fruits industry many more unnaturalized aliens are engaged than in dairying. The Dried Fruits Export Control Board consists of one member appointed by the Governor-General as the representative of the Commonwealth Government; two representatives elected by growers in the State of Victoria, and one representative elected by growers in each of the States of New South Wales, South Australia, and Western Australia and two members with commercial experience appointed by the Governor-General. 
As does the bill of which the Senate has just approved, this measure contains a provision setting out the manner in which the roll shall be compiled. All the arguments which I have advanced in support of the other measure apply to this bill, but with greater force, because of the greater number of unnaturalized aliens in this industry, particularly in certain districts, in one at least of which their number are almost sufficient to sway the election. The bill not only affects the right to vote, but also guards against the possibility of unnaturalized aliens being elected to the board. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
[11.36].- I lay on the table- 
Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure, and Estimates of Expenditure for Additions, New Works, Buildings, etc., for the year ending 30th June, 1938. 
The Budget, 1937-38 - Papers presented by the HonorableR.  G.  Casey, M.P., onthe occasion of the Budget of 1937-38 - and move - 
That the papers be printed. 
In introducing the budget for 1937-38 in the House of Representatives to-day the Treasurer, the Honorable R. G. Casey, said that it is not too much to claim that at the present time Australia has reached the highest level of prosperity ever recorded. Based on unemployment percentages reported to the Statistician by trade unions, unemployment has declined from 30 per cent, in the second quarter of 1932 to 9.7 per cent, to-day. On more complete figures which are available for New South Wales and Queensland, it is evident that the position is even better than these percentages indicate. The value of production has increased in the five years by over 40 per cent., and building and construction in the same period have more than quadrupled. The market for Australian primary products has materially improved, the value of our wool clip in 1936-37 being almost  double that in 1931-32. "Wheat also has shown nearly as marked an increase. Export prices in 1936-37 show the substantial increase of 20 per cent, over 1935- 36. The extent of the recovery is further illustrated by the fact that in 1936- 37 Australia had a favorable trade balance of nearly £36,000,000. The marked recovery during the period of its office is a source of great satisfaction to the Government, which can reasonably claim to have contributed in no small measure to this achievement by following a sound financial policy. 
The improved condition of the country is reflected, also, in the budgetary position of both the Commonwealth and the State Governments. The aggregate deficits of the Commonwealth and the States for the year 1930-31 amounted to £25,390,000, and in 1931-32 to £19,490,000; but in 1936-37 an aggregate surplus of £965,000 was recorded. 
Since the assumption of office in December, 1931, by the Lyons Government, the Commonwealth debt has been reduced by £11,019,000 to £386,910,000. During the year a loan of £12,360,000 was converted in London, with a saving in interest and .exchange of £46,000 per annum. . Further loans totalling £11,410,000 will mature on the 1st February, 1938. Two loans of  £7,500,000  each were raised in Australia during the year 1936-37, the yield of the first being £3 19s. 4d. per cent., and of the second, £3 19s. Id. per cent, per annum. In the current financial year the Loan Council has decided to limit the borrowing for Sta te and Commonwealth purposes to £16,000,000, of which the Commonwealth's share wall be £2,500,000. The whole of this latter amount will be used for grants to the States for rural debt adjustment. 
The national debt sinking fund has played a most important part in connexion with the debt. Since the establishment of the fund in 1923, over £75,000,000 has been provided for the redemption of Commonwealth debt, and over £37,000,000 has been paid to the fund for the redemption of State debts since the State sinking funds were established in 1928. This year £5,580,000 will be provided for State sinking funds, and £4,630,000 for the Commonwealth sinking fund, a total of more than £10,000,000. 
The revenue for 1936-37 amounted to £82,807,977, and the expenditure _ to £81,531,419, showing an excess of receipts over expenditure amounting to £1,276,558. Practically the whole of this excess is due to increased income tax receipts on account of the more rapid payment of outstanding arrears. It is proposed that £1,000,000 of these excess receipts shall be set aside for the public works of the Postmaster-General's Department, and that £276,558 shall be applied to the reduction of the accumulated deficit of the Commonwealth, which will then be £15,658,000. 
For the year 1937-38, the Government again presents a balanced budget. Since it assumed office in December, 1931, the burden of taxation on the Australian, people has been considerably reduced by this Government. Successive reductions have been made of sales tax, land tax, and income tax, while the entertainments tax has been abolished altogether. In order to illustrate the value of these reductions of taxes, I point out that, had the income tax, sales tax and land tax been continued at the 1931-32 rates, they would have yielded £36,500,000 in the current financial year instead of the £18,200,000 which is shown in the budget. Extensive reductions have also occurred in primage duties and in customs - British preferential - and excise duties on certain commodities. In view of the formidable and inescapable increases of its obligations for the immediate future, the Government regrets that it is unable still further to reduce taxes in this financial year. 
The estimated budget results for 1937-38 may be summarized as follows : - Estimated revenue, £85,190,000; estimated expenditure, £85,160,000; estimated excess receipts, £30,000. 
It is proposed to increase the rate of invalid and old-age pensions from 19s. to £1 a week, representing a cost of £800,000 in a full financial year. Further increases are due to the normal growth of the number of pensioners, and by the fact that, in this year, there will be 27 pension pay-days instead of the  usual 26. In all, invalid and old-age pensions will cost practically £2,000,000 more than last year. 
Following the discussions on Empire defence at the Imperial Conference, substantial provision has been made for strengthening our defences. The total amount to be expended in this direction will be £11,531,000, as compared with £S,067,000 in the last financial year. These defence proposals are to be financed as follows: - From revenue, £6,000,000; from defence equipment trust account, £2,656,000; from civil aviation defence account, £375,000; from loan fund, £2,500,000. 
For some years it has been the practice to pay as much as possible of excess receipts of the Commonwealth to the defence equipment trust account, and to draw upon this account to assist the budget in respect of defence expenditure in subsequent years. At the close of 1936-37 approximately £3,000,000 was held in the defence trust accounts, and practically the whole of this sum is being committed during the current financial year. The Government has decided to meet the balance of £2,500,000 from loan fund. To this end it is proposed to raise £2,000,000 sterling, that is, £2,500,000 in Australian currency, by means of. Commonwealth  treasury-bills  from the Commonwealth Bank in London and, at a later date, to fund the shortterm securities from the proceeds of a public loan. This course has been decided on, because, first it is desired to restrict the total raisings of all governments in Australia in 1937-38 to £16,000,000 ; and secondly, a conversion operation of £72,700,000 has to be dealt with in 1938. Moreover, by this means, we shall be able to finance our expenditure in Great Britain for defence equipment without encroaching on our existing London funds. 
The total additional provision in this financial year for war pensions and repatriation i3 £212,000. It is proposed to increase the rate of war service pensions from 19s. to £1, involving an additional  charge  of £22,000 on the budget. 
An amount of £100,000 is being provided in respect of public health projects, especially in relation to the health of women and children, whilst grants for 

 Senator 
 Sir 
 George Pearce. aerial medical services, and for investigating problems of nutrition are also being continued. An additional £25,000 is being provided for the eradication of cattle tick. 
Reports on unemployment insurance and health and pensions insurance have been received from  Mr. Godfrey  H. Ince, Chief Insurance Officer of the British Ministry of Labour, and  Sir "Walter  Kinnear, Controller of Insurance in the Ministry of Health in Great Britain, respectively. The former report was recently discussed, with representatives of the States, when it was arranged that a committee of officers and actuaries, representing the Commonwealth and States, should further examine certain aspects of unemployment insurance. The matter of health and pensions insurance is now under consideration by the Government. Towards the initial expense of national insurance, £75,000 is included in the budget. 
It is proposed to grant superannuation rights, together with the right to furlough for long and meritorious service, to as many members as possible of the staffs of the High Commissioner's office, the War Service Homes and Repatriation Departments, and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, who arc, in fact, though not technically, permanent officers. ' 
The estimates of the PostmasterGeneral's Department for this financial year provide for an increase of the expenditure chargeable to revenue, by about £900,000, and for a corresponding increase of the receipts of that -department.' The Government has carried out a policy of continuous improvement of postal, telegraphic, telephonic and broadcasting services. This is illustrated by the progressive increase of expenditure on new works of the Postmaster-General's Department from £865,000 in 1933-34 to an estimate of £3,250,000 in 1937-38. As I have already said, £1,000,000 of the £3,250,000 will be provided from excess receipts of last year. There has been extensive development in air-mail and passenger services and telephone facilities, particularly in the country, whilst additional broadcasting facilities have also been provided. It is pleasing to note that, in respect of all this work, Australian manu-  factures have been used to a far greater extent than in the past. 
The sum of £10,000 has been provided i.o meet possible commitments which may arise in 1937-38 in connexion with Pacific shipping services. This matter was discussed at the Imperial Conference, and it is hoped that an agreement will shortly be entered into under which two new ships will replace those at .present operated by the Canadian-Australasian line. 
The provision in 1937-38 for scientific and industrial research is £170,000, compared with £138,000 for 1936-37. Excellent work has been done by the council, and, as a result, increasing contributions are being received from industry. Research is being pursued with regard to the blowfly pest, pasture improvement, forestry, fruit preservation, &amp;c, and early in 1938 a fisheries investigation vessel will bo in operation under the guidance of  Dr. Thompson,  formerly Director of Fisheries in Newfoundland. 
The Government has undertaken to provide £334,000, and the New South Wales Government £166,000, as debenture capital for the development of the shale oil industry at Newnes. Towards this amount a first instalment of £100,000 is provided in the present budget. From the £250,000 appropriated under the Petroleum Oil Search Act 1936 assistance has been approved for several companies in the search for flow oil, and the prospects are considered promising. 
In accordance with a recommendation of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems, the Government proposes to establish a new department of the Commonwealth Bank to provide facilities for fixed and long-term lending, and a bill for the purpose will be introduced this session. 
The direct financial assistance rendered to the States will amount this year to £15,565,500, which is £543,000 in excess of the grants made during the previous year. These grants are made up as follows: - Interest and sinking fund under the financial agreement, £9,015,000 ; federal aid roads, £3,750,000; special grants, £2,350,000; other grants, £450,500. The fourth annual report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission recommended that payments for 1937-38 should be: South Australia, £1,200,000; Western Australia, £575,000; and Tasmania, £575,000. It is proposed to ask Parliament to approve of these recommendations. 
As the result of the federal aid roads and works agreement authorized by the Commonwealth Parliament at the beginning of the present session, payments to States have been increased, and it is anticipated that in this financial year these payments will be £3,750,000, or £721,000 more than last year. The budget also provides for other grants to the States amounting to £200,000, to provide technical training and skilled employment for youths, £100,000 towards interest and sinking funds in respect of loans for public works, £70,000 for assistance to the metalliferous mining industry, and £80,000 for assistance to forestry. 
In view of continued low prices, the sum of £65,000 is provided in the budget for general assistance, scientific research, and publicity in respect of the apple and pear industry. The bounty given in previous years in relation to oranges is also being extended to all citrus fruits, and it is expected that the expenditure involved will be £8,000. 
Due to the fertilizers subsidy, which has; been paid since 1932, the use of artificial manures by primary producers, other than wheat-growers, has substantially increased. In order that the subsidy may be kept within reasonable, bounds, it has been decided to limit the payment to the first twenty tons of fertilizers purchased by any individual. The estimated cost this year is £250,000. Recognizing the valuable work that is being done by the Australian Travel Association, the Government proposes to increase the Commonwealth grant to this body from £15,000 to £20,000. The sum of £30,000 will also be made available to the Australian Overseas Trade Publicity Committee for advertising and trade promotion in the United Kingdom, whilst £7,500 will be made available for general exhibition purposes in the United Kingdom. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I earnestly request - I do not like to use the word - challenge - the Leader of the Opposition to explain fully that part of the Labour party's policy on defence which he expounded in this chamber yesterday, providing that no Australian military forces shall be allowed to go overseas! In what measure would that rule of the Labour party apply if the very existence of our sister dominion in the Pacific, New Zealand, were threatened by the naval forces of other countries? I believe that the Australian people will demand from the Leader of the Labour party a clear, unequivocal declaration on this point, because it is of the utmost importance to the welfare and happiness of every man, woman and child in Australia that our citizens should know just what responsibility is placed upon them in deciding who shall be given the right to say what part Australia shall play in the preservation of the British Empire. According to press reports of his speech yesterday, the Leader of the Opposition said that, under the rules of the Labour party, every member of that party was committed to the " adequate " defence of Australia. 
The honorable senator is reported in the press as having said that the rules of the Labour party provided that no Australian forces shall te sent overseas without the consent of the Australian people. 
There would be a good deal wrong with it in the event of the existence of the sister dominion of New Zealand being threatened; because under these " rules " of the Labour party a referendum of the people would have to be taken to decide whether or not Australian naval forces would co-operate with the rest of the Empire in the defence of New Zealand. 
In this morning's newspapers,  Mr. Savage,  the Premier of New Zealand is reported as having said - "We are building a comparative paradise in the Pacific, and I do not see any reason to worry about the future. "  Mr. Savage  drew a beautiful picture of the New Zealand paradise, and I suppose we need not be surprised at that, since it is a natural human impulse to try at some time or other to attain to a state of supreme felicity. But I remind our Labour friends in this chamber and elsewhere that in the world to-day, there, are very many people in other countries who would be only too glad of an opportunity to break into New Zealand's paradise if they thought that effective measures had not been taken to prevent them. Even the Labour party cannot divorce itself from its responsibility to the citizens of Australia with regard to defence. 
Over and over again yesterday, when the Leader- of the Opposition was speaking,  Senator Guthrie  asked him point blank to say what a Labour government would do in the event of a threat being made against the sister dominion of New Zealand, and the honorable gentleman is reported to have said "I shall answer that later." He has not yet answered the question. I challenge him to do so now or on some other occasion before this Parliament is dissolved. The people are entitled to know what would be the position in the Pacific in the event of the Labour party being returned to power. Honorable senators will no doubt remember the interesting position that developed in the Pacific during the Great War, and the anxiety felt in Australia because of the exploits of a small but efficient fleet of German cruisers which raided shipping and did enormous damage to the cause of the allies. At one time they were believed to be planning a raid on Fiji, and there is little doubt that they would have done so but for the fact that they picked up a wireless message indicating that the Australian battle cruiser 

 Australia,which was - superior in speed and gunpower to any of the German vessels, was in the vicinity. As a matter of fact, the  Australia  was not anywhere within striking distance of the enemy cruisers, but a " bluffing " wireless message served its purpose, and the raiders did not, as was feared, visit Fiji or New Zealand. Most of us remember the battle between those German cruisers, and an inferior British fleet off Coronel in the South Pacific; the British vessels were destroyed.We remember also that the German warships later descended upon the Falkland Islands, a possession in the South Atlantic, where they were met. and destroyed by a superior fleet of British battle-cruisers -which had been released from other duty in European waters to attend to them. What would have been the position if, at that time, the commanders of the German cruisers had known that Australia was under Labour government, and that a "rule" of Labour's defence policy precluded Australian naval forces from proceeding beyond territorial waters until after the taking of a referendum? 
I am putting before the Senate the rules governing the defence policy of the Labour party. 
I am glad that my friend applies such a term to that policy. It is bunk. 
And I repeat that I am merely placing before the Senate the implications of Labour's defence policy. The rules state definitely that Australian defence forces must not be sent overseas until after the taking of a referendum. 
What is meant by British defence in the Pacific, if not co-operation? And without co-operation there or elsewhere, what is the value of the British Empire? Do my friends in Opposition in this chamber wish us to believe that they cannot wholeheartedly admire the magnificent declaration of non-aggression contained in the review by the Leader of the Senate of the Imperial Conference proceedings? Do they affirm that the British nations have not displayed qualities of world leadership, and do' they not know that other governments, even those hostile to the British Empire, are satisfied as to its bona fides? And are they not proud of Britain's declaration of non-aggression as the keynote of its re-armament policy? 
I have always been a firm believer in a policy that will tend to remove misunderstandings among the peoples of the world, but I do not blind myself to the fact that if we do not adopt reasonable precautions for self protection, there are robbers abroad who are only too ready to break into our homes, if they know that we have thrown away our guns, or if they believe that we have become such weaklings as to be unable or unwilling to defend ourselves. On the other hand, we do not want to see a display of that spirit of jingoism which, towards the end of last century, became such an object of derision. As a civilized people we do not stand for that. Neither do the Leader of the Opposition and his supporters here and elsewhere. But we of the ministerial parties do affirm that the leadership for peace displayed by the British Empire is an important factor in world affairs. It is so regarded by the governments of other countries, but it would be foolish to allow our defence measures to be determined by the " rules " of a political party, especially at a time like the present, when nations, without even a declaration of war, are fighting among themselves under " Rafferty " rules - fighting not minor wars, but cruel, major wars of the worst type. 
This, I remind the Senate, is what is going on in the world to-day. How long will our Labour friends - these political dreamers - shut their eyes to facts, and refuse to see the, position as it is? How long will they persist in their foolish policy that we must have a referendum of the people before anything can be done by Australia to assist, say, the sister dominion of New Zealand should it be threatened by an aggressor? What would be the value of British defence measures in the pacific if there were no cooperation among the components of the Empire? We depend for our safety on prompt and effective co-operation. Any other policy would mere-y be cruel selfdeception of British peoples who rely for their security upon a powerful British navy. 
I do believe in peace; but I am now fighting for the principles underlying a strong British Empire which, by its self-denial in the policy of disarmament for many years, gave an example to the world of absolute sincerity in the cause of peace. Unfortunately, Great Britain's efforts evoked no response from other major powers. On the contrary, the spirit underlying the peace gesture was mistaken for evidence of weakness. Some, indeed, entered the realms of prophecy; they talked of the disintegration of the British Empire and metaphorically threw their hats in the air. 
But having for fourteen or fifteen years given the world a lead in disarmament for the sake of world peace, the sincerity of which cannot be called in question, and having found that that example was not followed, and that. robbers are abroad, Great Britain has changed its policy and, by the adoption of a well-devised rearmament programme, has shown its resolve to be once again the determining factor in world diplomacy based on a policy of non-aggression. 
In VieW of what has happened and is happening to-day, we are entitled to ask what hope there would be for the people of this country if Labour came into power as the result of the swing of the pendulum during the coming election, and if, as it would have the right to do, it gave effect to its defence policy to take a referendum before the Australian Defence Forces could be employed to assist even the sister dominion of New Zealand. Et is important to note also that, if that unhappy day should arrive, Federal Labour could not possibly govern, except with the consent of the New South Wales Labour party, and from events of recent years we know what that means. Not long ago we heard the Leader of the Op position in this chamber wholeheartedly and sincerely repudiating the actions of a well known Labour leader in New South Wales. Very well! Now I tell him that as surely as God made little apples, if his party wins the next election anc! comes into power, it will be compelled to g.ve effect to the policy of that New South Wales Labour leader, no matter what  Mr. Curtin,  the Federal Labour leader or the rest of the Federal Labour party may think or do. 
Again I agree with* the honorable gentleman that much of Labour's policy is " bunk ", and I remind the .Senate that, with one exception, all the New South Wales Labour members of the House of Representatives belong to what is known as the Lang party. That fact, I suggest, is highly significant. We know, from recent utterances of certain members in the House of Representatives and from newspaper reports of speeches of other political leaders what their attitude would be following success at the polls. From speeches which we have heard in  this debate we gather that a fair amount of Communist support will be given to Labour candidates at the coming elections. A real danger to British interests in the Pacific would be constituted, should the government he in the hands of the New South Wales Labour party, as there is good reason to believe it would be. 
It is tragic that such a contingency should be possible, if Labour should be successful in the coming elections. It is tragic that, notwithstanding repeated requests from the Leader of the Senate and government supporters for a declaration of Labour's defence policy, there should have been such deliberate reticence on the part of the Leader of the Opposition. What is needed is a straightout declaration of what will bo the position in the Pacific if Labour be returned to power. We have had certain " rules " of the Labour party read to us. What is our strength in the Pacific? Does it rest solely upon the naval forces which Australia can afford? Even  Mr. Curtin,  the Leader of the Federal Labour party, says " No " to that question. He clearly  is of the opinion that, alone, we could not provide a navy of sufficient strength to safeguard all our interests. Therefore, it is true that our strength in the Pacific depends upon cooperation between the Australian naval forces, the smaller naval forces in New Zealand, the British China Squadron and the Singapore Naval Base. 
If our friends of the Labour party will take the trouble to examine the map of the world, they will find that, in the Pacific, to the north of Australia, there is a string of islands which afford the best chance to save Australia from actual invasion. We cannot, I suppose, hope for complete immunity from raids or serious damage. But we have been told that the " rules " of the Labour party would prevent an Australian naval force from being used to check an enemy there until the people had been consulted by referendum. 
I am glad that my friend has expressed thanks to the Deity for something. I can only hope that, as the result of what has been said in this debate, he will see the light and give us a straight-out declaration of where he and his party stand in relation to co-operation of the Australian naval forces with those of other parts of the Empire in time of emergency. 
The honorable senator cannot find in our rules anything about a referendum in the circumstances mentioned. 
As to the influence of the British Empire on world peace, I remember, as a boy, well over forty years ago, reading a significant statement made by the Consul in Australia for the United States of 
America who, in the course of an address, said that if the English-speaking nations cared to say to the rest of theworld " There shall not be war," there would not be war. That is as true to-day as it was then. The Government is striving to secure effective co-operation in the defence of the Pacific. 
It should also be striving to keep on good terms with the United States of America, a friendly nation in the Pacific. 
I never took any exception to the expenditure incurred. 
Where does the honorable senator imagine the centre would, be ? 
Sending its experts to train potential enemies. 
Britain is now building capital ships of the  Hood  class. 
We said that an air force could be superior to a naval force. 
I rose particularly to endorse the policy of holding Imperial Conferences, and to congratulate the Australian delegates at the recent con'ference held in London upon the capable way in which they represented Australia! If membership of the British Commonwealth of Nations is worth anything at all, it surely should be worth the expense incurred in sending delegates to such conferences. The remarks of honorable senators in opposition suggest that in holding such gatherings a new principle is introduced; but conferences arc held by political, religious and sporting bodies in order to formulate policies, on. the understanding that each section co-operating will give effect to the policy determined by the conference. A few months ago a conference of members of tho representatives of the Labour party from five States was held in New South  Wales, and that conference even Went so far as to tell tho New South Wales delegates what they had to do. That action had the support of the Leader of the' Opposition. The Commonwealth Government is expected to give effect to  the  decisions reached at the Imperial Conference in the same way as the political delegates are expected to abide by the decisions of the conferences which they attended. 
The most important subject considered at the recent Conference was defence. In the last war the military arm played the greatest part, and in the next conflict it is reasonable to assume that the naval and air services working in co-operation will be of major importance. The aerial arm is not only the most recent addition to our defence forces, but promises to become the most destructive. In concentrating upon the development of our naval and air forces,- the Government is acting on the best advice obtainable. When the construction of the Singapore naval base was commenced some years ago, I realized that it would be of special significance in the defence of Australia. The impregnability of the Singapore Naval Base, and the invincibility of the navies of the British Empire alone can save Australia from invasion and consequent disaster. In view of the fact that we cannot accurately predict the location of the next theatre of war, it is rather premature to determine in detail the means that we shall adopt for the part, that We may be called upon to play in it. The Labour party has announced its intention to " wait and see ". The Federal Government, however, is not prepared to delay ; it is going ahead with a programme which will enable Australia, in collaboration .with other members of the British Empire, to offer the utmost resistance to an aggressor. It is of opinion that the aerial and naval arms will play the greatest part in the next war. Those two branches of the fighting' machine can and must work in perfect co-operation. 
I shall presently refer to the policy of the Labour party as enunciated by  Senator Collings.  At present we have not the faintest idea of where the destiny of Australia in the next conflict will be determined. In the Great War the destiny of Great Britain and this Commonwealth was determined on the battlefields of Flanders. Where the centre of the next great upheaval will be we do not know. We sincerely hope that the last great war has been fought ; nevertheless wo must be prepared for an emergency. During this debate the Labour party has enunciated its policy for the defence of Australia. A little while ago, honorable senators were obliged to extract what satisfaction they could in regard to that policy from the two mysterious words " adequate defence ". As the result "of this debate, we have advanced our knowledge slightly. 
The Labour party proclaims that it is a practical party, in defence and in other matters; I propose to examine the practicability of the defence policy of the Opposition. The Labour party, if not in favour of the complete scrapping of the navy, proposes sadly to neglect it in future. I am able to understand that. According to the policy of the Labour party, there is no need for a navy. Obviously, as our battleships cannot fight on our own soil, the naval arm of defence is to be practically abandoned. The sole function of the navy will be to report the approach of the enemy to the Prime Minister who, I presume, will thereupon summon Parliament. After an interval of three weeks, the Parliament will have assembled in Canberra. During this period the hostile navy with aeroplane carriers, each carrying, perhaps, 40 or 50 machines will be lying within fifteen miles of our shores ; and Parliament will be assembling to debate what steps shall be taken to meet the emergency. 
Perhaps that step will be dispensed with in view of the emergency. 
When Parliament has met, a prolonged debate on the emergency will take place. All this time, I remind honorable senators, the enemy is within fifteen miles of our shores. If the Goverinment believes that a state of emergency exists, it will introduce a bill to provide for the taking of a referendum to determine whether or not the enemy shall be resisted. The debate would occupy two or three weeks and if Parliament decided that the enemy must be fought where he is, provided he stayed there awaiting the result, a referendum would be taken. This would occupy approximately four weeks, and in order to restrain the enemy from dropping a few shells upon Sydney, a notice would appear in the  Labor Daily  requesting the aggressor not to fire until the campaign was concluded. In case the enemy should' not read the'  Labor Daily  placards would be posted along our coast bearing the inscription " Trespassers before the referendum will be prosecuted ". 
That is the logical conclusion to be drawn from the defence policy of the Labour party. The referendum must be held if the Government feels that the enemy should be fought outside our borders. I wonder what attitude will be adopted in the crisis by  Senator Ceilings?  Will he say to the people, " The enemy is off our shore; the Government believes that we will have to fight him where he is, and accordingly asks your permission, through this referendum, to attack him with our navy"? After these periods of delay extending over some months the aggressor, provided that he has not grown weary of waiting in deference to the wishes of the Labour party, and provided that the referendum is passed, will be subjected to an onslaught by our navy. That the attitude of the Labour party on this matter is impracticable is obvious to school children. It is an impossible policy. Why does that party endeavour to fool the people with something that is impracticable? The reason lies in the fact that members of the Opposition recall a certain vote a few years ago, and they have not the courage to lead the people. The Government would be in possession of information which it could not disclose; yet if Labour were in power they would be prevented, under their policy, from saying to the people: " An enemy is off our shores and we must engage him at sea where we have the best prospect of beating him ". Instead of having this freedom of choice they prefer to wait until the aggressor lands, and then endeavour to pit Australia's strength against him. The Labour party is fully aware that, in such circumstances, the people will not be in a position to decide the issue. They will not be in possession of the inside information; that will be known only to the government, which has not the courage to provide for the proper defence of Australia. 

 Senator Brown stated that when the Labour party was returned to power it would co-operate closely with New Zealand. I hope to hear the honorable senator explain in what respect itwould co-operate. Inregard to defence, no such co-operation would be possible, because the policy and rules of the Labour party forbid it. Consequently it is humbug for the honorable senator to say that when the Labour party is in office it will co-operate with New Zealand. Its defence policy would preclude the despatch of assistance to New Zealand, should it be assailed by an aggressor, until a referendum on the matter had been taken. I was disgusted to listen to the humbug, rubbish and clap-trap spoken in. this chamber by members of the Opposition on this vital subject. Having paid close attention to their statements I now understand why they have never been able to explain to us what they mean by " adequate defence ". I sympathize with the Labour party. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator 
Brennan) adjourned. 
asked the Postmaster-General - 1. Has the Minister seen newspaper reports to the effect that an Australian air company with a capital of £1,000,000 is to be formed, and that the board of directors will include a chairman to be approved by the Government and two directors to be appointed by the Bank of New South Wales and the Commercial Bank of Australia on behalf of the underwriters? 2. Has he also seen a report that guarantees have been placed with the Bank of New South Wales and the Commercial Bank of Australia through the Bank of America and the National City Bank of New York by the underwriters ? 
I have read the reports referred to. To-day the Government was advised by both the Bank of New South Wales and the Commercial Bank of Australia that they .have no knowledge of the proposed company or of any  arrangements  connected with it. 1 have also noted press cables from America stating that the Bank of America and the National City Bank have denied having had any connexion* with the. proposed company. I would add that the statement that the board of directors would include a chairman to bc approved by the Government is made without any authority. 
-On the 27th August  Senator Grant  addressed the following questions to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice: - 
Has the Minister had his attention called to the statements made in the  Argus  of the 25th instant - 
That the manufacturers of galvanized iron are from three to four months behind in their commitments? 
That in some cases orders for steel sheets will be accepted - subject to delivery in about eight months from receipt of order? 
That delivery of steel plates cannot be given fora period of eight to twelve months? 
That for special large-sized steel plates acceptance of orders is subject to rolling about SeptemberOctober next year? 
If the above statements are correct, what attitude does the Government propose to take in order to make supplies available within a more reasonable time? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has now supplied the following answers-: - 
Yes. 
The delivery periods mentioned are not properly indicative of the steel position. While it is possible that some orders placed with steel manufacturers may not be completed until the periods mentioned, this is not generally the case. Merchants and manufacturers have placed orders with the steel mills covering their requirements for many months ahead and will thus be receiving steel regularly from those mills. Users may also purchase from steel merchants who hold stocks. Generally speaking, the position regarding steel supplies in most other countries is no better. An abnormal world demand exists for iron and steel because of requirements for armament purposes. This is particularly the case in the United Kingdom, where the demands for Empire defence purposes are particularly heavy. Because of the comparatively low price of Australian-made iron and steel some users who formerly preferred to import their requirements are anxious now to purchase from local sources. Australian steel manufacturers have recently expended large sums in plant extensions in order to cope with the normal Australian demand. There is little doubt that Australian steel producers have taken, and are still taking, all possible steps to meet the position. When the price factor is taken into consideration Australian users are being better served as regards iron and steel requirements than are users in most countries. There is nothing which the Government can be expected to do to make supplies available. It is the function of traders, not the Government, to import any requirements which Australian steel-makers cannot meet. 
Is the Minister aware that galvanized iron manufactured in Australia is selling at from £5 to £7 a ton below the price of imported galvanized iron duty free, and is he aware also that owing to this difference in price Australian galvanized iron is nowbeing exported ? 
On Wednesday last the Minister for External Affairs  (Senator Pearce)  presented an interesting statement on the international situation but omitted to make any reference to any steps which have been, or are being, taken by the League of Nations. With regard to the unfortunate conflict that is taking place in China will the Minister now amplify his statement in order to give the Senate this information? 

 By leave. - For the information of honarable senators, I propose briefly to review recent important developments of the Sino-Japanese crisis. On the 17 th August, the British Government made a proposal to the Chinese and Japanese Governments to the effect that if both the Japanese and Chinese would agree to withdraw their naval and military forces from the Shanghai area and would also agree that GreatBritain, the United States of America and France should be responsible for the protection of Japanese nationals in the International Settlement, the British Government would undertake this responsibility, provided that it could securethe co-operation of the United States of America and France. The British Government also made it clear that its sole object in making this proposal was to keep the International Settlement free from hostilities, and the commitments contemplated would be of a temporary nature to hold good- only during the continuance of the crisis. The Commonwealth Government has reason to suppose that the Chinese Government would have favorably considered this proposal if it had proved acceptable to the Japanese Government. 
The Japanese Governmenthas now replied to the British proposals in a note which contends that British interests in Shanghai are not being endangered by the Japanese Army, but by illegal Chinese attacks on the Settlement. Japanese troops were landed to protect 30,000 Japanese residents from attack by Chinese forces. The Note concludes by stating that the protection of British lives and property in Shanghai is always a matter of concern to the Japanese Government, whose forces are constantly devoting themselves to this end. 
A pact of mutual non-aggression between China and SovietRussia was signed on the 21st August, This consisted of three clauses - 
That neither party should commit any act of aggression on the other; 
That neither party should assist any third party which might commit an act of aggression on either of the signatories; 
That all existing agreements, whether bilateral or multilateral, to which the signatories were parties, should remain in force. 
The Chinese Government has informed the British Government thatthis pact is purely negative in character. Itmerely indicates China's fixed purpose to live at peace with its neighbours, and does not signify any abandonment on the part of China of its fixed policy of antiCommunism. 
Honorable senators will recollect that the British Government recently addressed a Note to the Japanese Government protesting against the attack on the British Ambassador in China,  Sir Hughe  Knatchbull-Hugessen, by Japanese aeroplanes, as a result of which he was severely injured. The full text of this Note has appeared in the press, and it is sufficient for me to remind honorable senators of the three requests made to the Japanese Government by the British Government. These were, first, a formal apology to be conveyed by the Japanese Government to the British Government; secondly, suitable punishment of those responsible for the attack; thirdly, an assurance by the Japanese Government that the necessary measures would be taken to prevent a recurrence of incidents of such a character. No reply to this Note has as yet been received, but the text of a statement issued by the Japanese Foreign Office on the 27th August, is as follows :  - 
It was with profound regret that we heard the news that  Sir Hughe  KnatchbullHugessen, the British Ambassador to China, was seriously wounded by machine-gun fire from an aeroplane, whilst he was on his way from Nanking to Shanghai. The Japanese Foreign Minister immediately instructed the Japanese Ambassador to China to convey to the British Ambassador his (the Foreign Minister's) sympathy while the Japanese Consul-General in Shanghai called upon the Acting British ConsulGeneral and expressed his regret. 
The Japanese Government is now conducting an investigation into the matter at Shanghai. However, it is absolutely unthinkable that a Japanese plane would intentionally attack the automobile in which the British Ambassador was driving. 
The Japanese Consul-General in Australia has personally expressed to the Commonwealth Government his sincere sympathy at the wounding of the British Ambassador. 
In view of the fact that a bill for the adoption of the Statute of Westminster  has been introduced in the House of Representatives, will the Leader of the Senate say whether ample time will be allowed for a full discussion of this important matter in the Senate. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs,  upon notice - 
With reference to the Minister's statement to the Senate on the 26th August that the Government has not prohibited the export of iron ore from Yampi Sound - 
1 ) Is the Minister in a position to state that no such prohibition will be imposed by this Government? 
If so, will the Government convey this assurance to the Yampi Sound Mining Co. and other persons engaged in the development of those deposits ? 
Is it a fact that operations at Yampi are being suspended as a result of the uncertainty consequent on previous ministerial statements on the subject? 
I wish to dispel any misapprehension that may exist in regard to the attitude of the Commonwealth Government in connexion with the export of iron ore from Yampi Sound. In connexion with potential supplies of iron ore a preliminary survey has been made which shows very considerable deposits in sight, sufficient for all our requirements for a great many years ahead. However, this survey is incomplete, and it, is believed that much greater supplies exist than have been taken into account in this preliminary survey. A more detailed and comprehensive examination is now in hand. In regard to the proposed export of iron ore from Yampi Sound: The leases were granted to Brassert &amp; Company by the present State government in Western Australia. The Commonwealth Government is aware of no reason why it should interfere. The Government regards the necessity for any limitation on the export of iron ore on the grounds set out above as unlikely. The responsibility for constant watchfulness for the conservation in the national interests not only of the resources of iron ore but also of the essential non-ferrous metals is one which falls on the Commonwealth Government. This responsibility the Government accepts and will act upon whenever and in whatever connexion it is necessary. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to issue a complete range of commemorative coronation postage stamps? 
Is it intended to issue postage stamps of a new design for the values other than those already substituted during the past six months ? 
Owing to criticisms of the design and execution of the present 2d. stamps, is it intended to substitute a new 2d. stamp of better and more effective design ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
No. 
Yes; but it will be done gradually. 
No. The department does not consider that any change is necessary. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What was the amount paid into the National Debt Sinking Fund from federal revenue on behalf of the State of Queensland for the years 1935, 1936, 1937? 
What other financial grants have been made to the State of Queensland during this period ? 3.For what purposes were those grants paid ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - 
1934-35, £175,236;1935-36, £176,479; 
1936-37, £186,322. Total for three years, £538,037.  2 and 3. Other financial grants to the State and the purpose thereof  for  the same period were: - 

<graphic href="154332193709013_4_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
In view of the great losses suffered through the rabbit invasion and the present high cost of netting, will the Government renew its past policyof making advances through the State governments at a low rate of interest for the  purchase  of netting? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Treasurer has supplied the following answer :  - 
The Commonwealth Government, in order to assist the States with their loan programmes, has agreed to make no demands on the Australian loan market in 1937-38 other than for such moneys as are required to be paid to the States for farmers' debt adjustment. In the circumstances the Government regrets its inability to makemoneys available for advances to the States for the purchase of wire netting. With a view to assisting the States in their endeavour to combat the rabbit menace, however, the Commonwealth, in 1935, offered to contribute the equivalent of 1 per cent. on Stateloan money used for advances to settlers for the purchase of wire netting. That offer is still open. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
Varying interpretations have been made of the provisions of this standing order, and opinions have been expressed that at this stage debate should be confined to subjects irrelevant to the subject-matter of the bill, leaving debate on relevant matters to the second-reading stage. However, the latest ruling of the  President,  endorsed by the Senate, is to the effect that matters both relevant and irrelevant may be discussed. The amendment is proposed to make this clear. It may be mentioned that Standing Order No. 252 provides that requests to the House of Representatives may be made at the firstreading stage, and, as any request would be for an amendment relevant to the subject-matter of the bill, it would appear necessary that debate should be provided for. 
[3.30]. - This is not a government matter, and government supporters may takeup whatever attitude they like in regard to it. But I, personally, am not in favour of the proposed amendment, because it does not take cognizance of the origin of the practice which the Senate has hitherto followed. Honorable senators generally are aware that the procedure in the Senate is different from that in the House of Representatives. The Standing Orders of the House of Representatives provide for a "Grievance Day." Every alternate week, a formal motion is proposed " That the House resolve itself into a Committee of Ways and Means," and upon that motion members may discuss any administrative or other matter they desire to bring under the notice of the House. This procedure follows the practice of the House of Commons. When the Senate met for the first time, its  President, Sir Richard  Chaffey Baker, an eminent South Australian, pointed out that the Senate was unlike an ordinary upper house, because it had powers with respect to money bills which were greater than those possessed by the upper houses of the State legislatures. He said that he proposed, on the first reading of a money bill -that is, a bill which the Senate could not amend - to allow discussion on matters not relevant to the bill. Under the Standing Orders of the Senate, the first reading of an ordinary bill is formal, but he proposed to allow a general debate on the first reading of a money bill, in order to give members of the Senate a privilege similar to that enjoyed by members of the House of Representatives on " Grievance Day." In other words, he proposed to afford honorable senators an opportunity to ventilate grievances, and to bring up any matters on which they desired to express their views. He said that, as money bills came before the Senate from time to time, honorable senators would have an opportunity equivalent to the grievance debate in the House of Representatives. It was never intended that this was to give an opportunity for a discussion of the bill itself at the firstreading stage, because, obviously, it is unnecessary to have practically two second-reading debates. I am aware that in practice the principle laid down by  Sir Richard  Baker has been departed from. I have tested the matter in the past, and I do not propose to do so again; but I now inform the Senate that the original intention of the Standing Order is being departed from by the amendment now before the chamber. On the first reading of money bills, we have frequently had the equivalent of secondreading debates, no matters beyond the scope of the bill being mentioned. It is then possible on the second reading to have a repetition of the debate. In my judgment, the original practice to which I have referred was introduced for the orderly conduct of our business, and at the same time for the purpose of conferring on honorable senators a valuable privilege. 
Motion agreed to. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreedto. 
It is unusual to require the  President  to sign copies of bills to be presented for assent, and, in practice, it has been found to present difficulties, owing to the time necessary for obtaining a fair print of the bill. The Standing Orders of the House of Representatives require the signature of the  Clerk  only. I understand that this is also the practice in most other parliaments. 
Motion agreed to. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
There is not always time for a notice to be sent by post, and to reach each honorable senator before the day on which Parliament is summoned to meet. The practice has been to despatch telegrams in such instances, and it was deemed desirable to make provision in the Standing Orders for such a procedure. 
Motion agreed to. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
As there is no such body as the Refreshment Department Committee, it is thought desirable to excise these words. 
Motion agreed to. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
Standing Order 20 provides the procedure for the ballot held in connexion with the choice of a President. 
Motion agreed to. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
There is no such office as Clerk of the Parliaments; there is, however, a Clerk of the Senate. 
Motion agreed to. 
[3.45]. - I move - 
That the billbe now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to increase to£ 1 a week the maximum rate of invalid and old-age pensions. It will be recalled that in 1931, when the financial position made it necessary for expenditure to be curtailed, the maximum rate of pension was reluctantly reduced from£l to 17s. 6d. a week. The resultant sacrifice was accepted with commendable fortitude by the greatbody of the pensioners, and this large section of the community has the gratifying knowledge of having made a valuable contribution to the rehabilitation of the country's finances. The reduction was, of course, a temporary one, and the Government has had constantly bef ore it the objective of restoring pensions to their original rate as soon as the financial position permitted. In pursuance of this policy the present Government increased the maximum pension to 18s. in July, 1935, and again to 19s. a week in September, 1936. After a careful survey of the financial position, the Government believes that it is now warranted in making available the final instalment of the amount which is equivalent to the reduction made in 1931, and it is privileged to present to Parliament proposals for the restoration of pensions to the previous maximum rate of £1 a week, with a corresponding increase of the limit of income plus pension. 
I propose briefly to review the various changes of the maximum rate of invalid and old-age pensions since the first payments were made in 1909. The maximum rate of pension was then 10s. a week. In October, 1916, the Hughes Labour Government raised the pension to 12s. 6d. a week. That was followed, in January, 1920, by an increase to 15s. a week made by the Hughes Nationalist Government. In September, 1923, a further increase was made by the Bruce-Page Government, the new rate being 17s. 6d. a week. Then, in October, 1925, the Bruce-Page Government raised the pension to £1 a week, and that amount continued until July, 1931, when, owing to the financial position of the Commonwealth, the Scullin Government found it imperative as part of the financial emergency legislation to reduce the maximum pension to 17s6d. a week. 
In October, 1932, the financial position demanded further emergency legislation, and the Government found it necessary to reduce pensions by not more than 2s. 6d. a week in certain cases in which the pensioners possessed income. In. October, 1933, as part of its financial relief measures, the Government fully restored the pensions to the rate at which they stood prior to the reductions made in 1932, and at the same time introduced into the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act provision for a yearly review of the maximum rate of pension on the basis of  the price index number for food and groceries for the twelve months ending 31st March in each year, and for a variation of the maximum Tate by 6d. a week, according to each rise or fall of IGO points in the index number. The table then inserted in the act fixed the maximum pension at 17s. 6d. a week, with provision for increases, on a sliding scale, until the price index number should reach 1,800, when the maximum pension? would reach £1 a week. In accordance with that table the maximum rate of pension was increased from 17s. 6d. to 18s. a week from the 4th July, 1935, based on the price index number of 1,412 as at the 31st March, 1935. 
In September of last year the Government liberalized the law by substituting a new table of price index numbers under which the then pension of 18s. a week would be further increased according to  rises  of the price index number until the pension would reach £1 a week at 1,640, instead of at 1,800, as in the previous table. The immediate effect of the new table was the increasing of the maximum rate of pension from 18s. to 19s. a week, based on a price index number of 1,44S. That increase came into operation on the :24th September, 1.936. The price index number for the year ended the 31st March, 1937, was i,491 which, under the existing provisions of the law, did not permit of any increase of the pension above 19s. a week. The Government now proposes, however, to amend the law  so  as to provide specifically for a pension of £1 a week, and to repeal the whole of the provisions relating to the variation of the pension according to the price index number. 
I should like specially to direct the attention of honorable senators to the fact that the Government's proposals provide a further concession to invalid and old-age pensioners, inasmuch as not only will the pension be increased to £1 a week, but also the removal of the provisions regarding price index numbers will mean that never again will the- pension fall below that amount without the express sanction of Parliament. As a result of this legislation every pension in- force will bc increased by 2s. a fortnight. The number of pensioners who will benefi t from this legislation is just over  300,000, and the additional financial liability which will be incurred by the Commonwealth is estimated at £800,000 per annum. The effect on the budget for the current year will be approximately £600,000, making the total estimated expenditure for the- year on invalid and old-age pensions £15,900,000. This represents an increase of nearly £2,000,000 over the expenditure for last year, and will be the highest amount paid in any one year since the Commonwealth commenced to pay pensions in 1909. 
The bill also makes provision for an increase of the limit of income plus pension to £84 10s. per annum, or 32s. 6d. a week. Ever since 1923 the law has allowed a pensioner to have an income of £32 10s. per annum - 12s. 6d. a week -  without the rate of his pension being affected. Under the new provisions the pensioner will still be allowed to have an income of 12s. 6d. a week as well as a pension of £1 a week, or a total of 32s. 6d. a week instead of 31s. 6d. a week as at present. The income plus pension limit of £84 10s. per annum, or 32s. 6d. a week, will thus return to the amount which was in operation in the predepression years. Never at any time have the income provisions been more liberal. 
The limit of income inclusive of pension in the case of blind pensioners was increased in January, 1921, by the Hughes Nationalist Government from £65 per annum, which was then the limit for other pensioners, to £221 per annum, or £4 5s. a week. In July, 1935, the limit for blind pensioners was automatically increased to £222 6s. per annum - £4 5s. 6d. a week - as the result of the general increase of pensions by 6d. a week under the scale of price index numbers, and in September of last year the limit was further increased to £224 18s. per annum - £4 6s. 6d. a week - following the general increase of pensions by ls. a week. Under this bill the income Limit for blind pensioners will be further increased by ls. a week to £4 7s. 6d. a week, or £227 10s. per annum. 
I should particularly like to point out that, with the exception of the' second quarter of 1931, when the rapid fall of prices . had increased the purchasing power of the pension to its highest level, the new pension rate of 20s. a week will give to invalid and old-age pensioners throughout the Commonwealth a greater purchasing power than they have ever had since the introduction of Commonwealth pensions. The reason for this is that 20s. to-day will purchase what 23s. lOd. would have purchased in 1925, when the pension was first increased to 20s. a week, and what 22s. 2d. would have purchased in 1930, which was the last full year in which the pension was 20s. a week. 
The bill also provides for an increase of the amount of pension payable to pensioner inmates of institutions. Honorable senators will call to mind that in September of last year the Government increased the amount of benevolent, » asylum and hospital pension from 5s. to 5s. 6d. a week, thus restoring to these pen.sioners the amount of pension which they received prior to the financial emergency legislation of 1931. It is proposed that the forthcoming increase of ls. a week shall bo divided equally between the pensioner and the institution, so that in future the pensioner inmate will receive- 6s. a week for his personal use, and the institution will be paid 14s. a week for his maintenance, instead of 13s. 6d. a week as at present. The amount of benevolent asylum and hospital pension will thus be greater than at any previous stage in the history of Commonwealth pensions. Approximately 5,000 pensioner inmates of institutions will benefit by this increase. 
As already indicated, the pensions liability during the current year will reach the highest amount yet expended on this service, namely, £15,900,000. The Government realizes that this is a very heavy burden to be borne by the taxpayers of the Commonwealth, but it feels that the people of Australia will cheerfully shoulder that burden in the knowledge that this large expenditure is bringing some measure of happiness and contentment to many thousands of their less fortunate fellow citizens in the eventide of their lives. I, therefore, urge honorable senators to facilitate the passage of the hill in order that the proposed increase may be made available from the next pension pay day. 
.  -The Opposition is pleased that, at last, justice is being done to pensioners. I do not know whether the proposal to increase the pension to £1 a week is to be regarded as a death bed repentance on the part of the Government for the wrong which it has done to pensioners since it assumed office, or whether it is intended as political bait for the coming elections ; but I have no doubt at all that pensioners will be delighted to draw the extra ls. a week on next pension pay day. 
 It is not clue to the Labour party that they will be able to do that. 
Not one member on this side of the House- the Tory side - supports withpleasure a reduction of wages and pensions. As far as we are concerned the reductions will not operate longer than is necessary for the restoration of financial stability. 
What does the honorable senator mean by his reference to the Tory side? 
Then even ministers and supporters of a government that introduced and passed the legislation dealing with war pensions would be, in the view of the honorable senator, Tories? 
Was not a Labour government responsible for the first reduction of pension ever made in Australia? 
Although  Senator Brown  said that the Labour party had always been in the forefront of the fight for invalid and old-age pensions, I waited patiently to hear from him exactly what that party lias done. History records that the Labour party was not even responsible for the introduction into Australia of the invalid and old-age pensions system and that it has never raised the rate of pension by any appreciable amount. Every real effort to improve the position of the pensioners has been made by non-Labour governments, and the record of the Labour party is a blank. The Labour party's " blue book " states that the .Labour party was responsible for the introduction of the first invalid and old-age pensions bill; but as honorable senators are aware, the first bill ' was introduced into the Commonwealth Parliament . in 1908 by the Deakin Ministry, which was not a Labour government; it was what  Senator Brown  has been pleased to call a Tory government. A scrutiny of the pages of  Ilansard  will prove conclusively that the invalid and old-age pension was first introduced into the national life of this country, not by a Labour government, but by a. non-Labour government - one of the despised " Tory " governments of which the honorable senator spoke to-day. 
That is so. Speaking to the first bill making provision for the payment of invalid and old-age pensions the then Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives said that he did not think that the introduction of such legislation would be possible for years. Yet on every street corner and in the highways and byways spokesmen of the Australian Labour party are claiming, without foundation, that that party introduced the invalid and old-age pension into Australia. Such a claim is nothing more than deliberate political misrepresentation and I say emphatically that it cannot be substantiated. 
It has made it repeatedly - during, the Gwydir election campaign at least sixty times. I have no doubt that it will be repeated again during the coming elections. Listening to Labour spokesmen one would gain the impression that the Labour party has never' occupied the treasury bench, and therefore has never had an opportunity of doing anything for the invalid and oldage pensioners. Let us consider, however, the number of occasions on which a Labour government has occupied the treasury bench and has had the opportunity to give the pensioners a fair deal. The first Labour government led by  Mr. Watson,  was in office in 1908 and it had the opportunity, if it so desired, to increase the original rate of pension which had been fixed at 10s. a week. Bur a perusal of the pages of  Hansard  reveals that the first Labour government made no attempt to raise the rate of pension above 10s. a week, and went out of office* without having done a single thing to assist the pensioners. It is obvious that the Watson Government was quite content to accept the pensions legislation introduced by the Deakin Government which preceded it in office. The second Labour government, of which  Mr. Fisher  was Prime Minister, attained tho treasury benches in 1910, and remained in office for three years, but during the whole of that time the rate of pension remained at 10s.. a week, the amount fixed by a non-Labour government in earlier years. Yet the Labour party today, in the hope of catching votes, makes the unwarranted claim that it was responsible for the introduction of invalid and old-age pensions. The third Labour government, it is true, raised the  rate of pension by 2s. 6d. a week, but the fourth Labour government reduced the rate by 2s. 6d. a week, bringing it back to what it had been before. The real test is to ask ourselves what governments or parties have assisted the invalid and old-age pensioners, and what governments were responsible for the seven distinct increases which have increased the rate of pension from 10s. .to £1 a week. The answer is that, in every instance, with the one exception I have mentioned, the pension was increased by a non-Labour government. That is the truth in regard to this matter and it should he told to the people of the Commonwealth. That claim can be supported by the  Hansard  record, and the truth of it will be recognized at the next elections. So it' ill-becomes the Australian Labour party to try to hang its political hat on that peg.  
I do not propose to make a long speech on this bill, nor do 1 propose to deal in general terms with the merits of the increase of the pension rate from 19s. to £1 a week.- I rise to make it clear that my views in regard to invalid and old-age pensions remain as they were in the past; I regret this increase from 19s. to £1, and I am personally opposed to it. I am perfectly aware that in saying this I may be isolated - I may be the only senator on this side of the chamber holding these views, hut I am not by any means the only person in the community subscribing to them. There are two points in. regard to this matter which I would like to put to the Senate : The first is that, as  Senator Hardy  has said with substantial accuracy, the hulk of the increases made in respect of the pension rate have been made by nonLabour governments. The parties they represented get credit for that at present, but if, later on, the credit becomes a debit will they accept responsibility for all of the increases they have made? When I came into parliament fifteen years ago, invalid and old-age pensions were costing the country £5,500,000 a year; for the current financial year they are to cost over £16,250,000, or nearly three times as much. 
I have. I have always said that we should take note of what is done in other parts of the British Empire.. The pensions bill has trebled in 15 years; if it continues to increase at the same rate - and there is nothing to show why we should stop at £1 a week; why not make it £2 a  week  - invalid pensions will cost this country something like £50,000,000 a year. That will be a burden that the country cannot carry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bil] read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move- 
That the bill bc now read a second time. 
The bill has two objects. First. it is designed to increase the maximum rate of service pension by ls. a week in harmony with the increase of the invalid and old-age pension. An unmarried man will now receive 20s. a week, whilst a married man and his wife will each receive 17s. a week, and those in institutions - except pulmonary tubercular sufferers who receive a higher rate - will have 7s. a week instead of 6s. It is calculated that more than 8,000 cases will benefit to the extent of approximately £21,000 during the ensuing twelve months. Secondly, it is proposed to amend the existing law so that if a widow in receipt of a service pension re-marries, her own service pension only will be cancelled; those being paid to her children will continue to the age of sixteen years as in the case of a war pension. 
 Senator Duncan-Hughes  has drawn attention to the increased cost to the nation of old-age and invalid pensions. This bill provides for an increased expenditure by the nation for the pur- pose of giving increased benefits to those who rendered service to their country at a time of grave national emergency. Under modern economic conditions we have witnessed a tremendous increase in the mechanization of industry. Machinery has been invented which produces enormous quantities of goods, the manufacture of which previously gave a great deal of employment to our people. We have to recognize the fact that economic systems are changing. There was a time, even in the history of Australia or at least of Great Britain, when those who gave their services to, and suffered injury in the defence of, their country received no pensions at all. Ultimately very small pensions were granted, but they were hardly enough to enable the recipients to keep body and soul together. A great change has occurred in the attitude of governments to ex-service men, and it is now recognized that liberal provision should be madeto assist those who have made great sacrifices in the interests of their country. I should have liked to see certain additional benefits granted in respect of war pensions, but I recognize that there are difficulties in the way of accomplishing what I desire. 
Although I admire  Senator DuncanHughes  in many respects, and understand his attitude to the invalid and oldagepension, I consider that the most valuable asset a nation can have is internal peace. We have had the spectacle in recent history of nations rising against one another. There have been even civil wars; but we also have to guard against industrial wars, and the best way to preserve social peace is to provide social security. Those who need the help of the nation are, first, the aged and the infirm. Then we have to consider those who are sick; and, thirdly, but not lastly, those who, when they were in full health and strength, gave their services to their country. No returned soldier should be allowed to be in want. I believe that the future welfare of mankind is bound up with the great principle of social security for all. It is of no use merely to talk about Christianity; we must give practical effect to Christian principles by seeing that those who now lack physical strength, and probably lost many opportunities of profitable employment through war service, are not left in want. 
I should like to know whether  Senator Duncan-Hughes  is in favour of the proposed increase of war pensions, since he has consistently opposed increases of the old-age and invalid pension. 
I desire to call the attention of the Senate to the grave injustice suffered by a blind ex-soldier who receives no pension at all. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  The honorable senator may not discuss that matter on this bill. 
I have always held the view that there is a great distinction between the invalid and old-age pension and the pension granted to ex-soldiers. Old-age and invalidity are natural infirmities, whereas pensions are granted to ex-soldiers because of the valuable service which they have rendered to their country. I do not think that I have ever opposed any increase of war pensions. This bill involves an amount, relatively small when compared with the previous measure. I shall support this bill, as I have supported the granting of assistance to returned soldiers in the past. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.48]. - I move - 
That thebill be now read a second time. 
The grants for which approval is sought in this bill are those recommended by the Commonwealth Grants Commission to be paid to the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania during 1937-38. It has been the custom hitherto to provide for the appropriation for these grants by means of separate bills, but to debate the three of them together. On the present occasion, for the sake of convenience, this is being accomplished by means of one measure. The recommendations of the commission are contained in its fourth report, which was tabled on the 24th August. The proposed grants, compared with those paid during 1936-37, are as follows: - 
For the information of honorable senators, I submit a table showing the special grants made to the three States since 1928-29. The grants paid for the year 1934-35 and following years are those based on recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission: - 
In presenting similar legislation last year I went fully into the grounds on which the commission based its recommendations. On this occasion I do not propose to cover that ground so fully, but I suggest that honorable senators would find the third and the fourth reports of the commission interesting. 
I refer, in passing, to the fact that two of the three commissioners have acted during the last year for the first time as members of the commission. Assistant Professor G. L. Wood, of the University of Melbourne, and  Mr. G.  L. Creasey,  of Launceston, have replaced Professor Giblin and  Sir Wallace  Sandford, and the appointments of the two gentlemen first-named have been extended to the 31st December next. Notwithstanding the change in personnel, the commission has based its recommendations broadly on similar grounds to those used in previous years. The possible bases for grants of this kind are narrowed down to those of " needs " or " disabilities ". The Commonwealth has consistently advocated the latter basis, but the difficulties . of assessment appear insuperable, whilst, on the other hand, the commission has evolved a technique in assessing on the " needs " basis that gives a very workable and adequate result. In support of its use of this basis the commission, in its fourth report, said - 
Thus, a grant on these principles, is not merely for the relief of distress; it covers the effect of forces, arising indifferently from geography, from economic conditions, or from national policy, which tend to make it impossible for a State to give its citizens the standard of public services necessary for a State in the Commonwealth. 
The measurement of the needs of the claimant States is based, in the first place, on their budgetary results in relation to those of certain standard States. This relation is subjected to . a number of adjustments designed to make the comparison equitable. These adjustments make allowance for such factors as severity of taxation, differences in the cost of social services, and other matters. The commission does not, however, tie itself to an arithmetical result, and in this connexion it made the following observation : - 
We do not take the various calculations as a final determinant of the grants, but as the material on which our final judgment is to be exercised. We test the figures by our knowledge of economic conditions of the claimant States, and take into account conclusions which are derived from the movements of the finances of the various States. The commission has now been considering these finances for four years, and is in a position to sec factors operating which are not visible merely from the analysis of accounts or from the presentation of a series of figures. 
In one respect the commission has made an important departure from a practice followed in its recommendations for 1935-36 and 1936-37. In its first report, it arrived at a " standard " deficit for comparison with the claimant States by taking into account the financial position of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. In its second and thirdreports, Victoria and Queensland only  were used. In the words of the commission they constituted -  a  fairly balanced pair, Victoria with a settled policy of great economy of administration with low taxation, and Queensland of more liberal provision of services with high taxation. 
New South Wales was excluded because of certain abnormal features in its accounts. This year, New South Wales has been restored as a standard State, a course which, I may add, was advocated in the evidence submitted by  the  Commonwealth Treasury. The commission made the following remarks on this change: - 
Without the inclusion o£ New South Wales, the grants would have suffered a substantial reduction. By the inclusion of that State tha grants are lower than in the previous year, but not seriously low. It is fortunate, therefore, that the present year offers a very good opportunity  to  adopt a course which is logically right, but which could not be followed before because of disturbing features in the finances of New South Wales. 
Because of the higher rate of expenditure on social services in New South Wales, this action will probably tend to higher grants than would otherwise have been the case, but the Government agrees  with  the view of the commission that it is logically right. 
In its assessment of the allowance to the claimant States in respect of the costof services, the commission has on this occasion introduced an area allowance to cover the increased cost of social services and administration. This allowance is designed to meet the increased overhead cost of administration over wide and sparsely populated areas. 
A feature to which I draw special attention is the "advance" of  £136,000  to Western Australia. The proposed grant for  1937-3S  to that State consists of a grant proper of  £439,000  and an advance of  £136,000,  the total being  £575,000.  The grants for  1937-38,  for which appropriation is now sought, are assessed on the results of the financial year  1935-36,  the last year for which complete statistics arc available to the commission. As, however. Western' Australia has been suffering from a severe drought, the effects of which on its budgetary position are already being felt, the commission recommends the advance of  £136,000  so that that State may receive the assistance when it is most needed. This -advance is to be adjusted in  193.9-40,  grants for which year will be based on the accounts for the current year,  1937-38.  A similar advance of  £44,000  was included in the amount paid in  1936-37,  and will become due for adjustment, in  1938-39. 
These special grants to the States are decreasing as the necessity for them diminishes with returning prosperity. This is, of course, to be expected, and, as the commission observes, the grants are pursuing a normal course when they decrease with financial recovery. The decrease is retarded by the time lag attendant on recommendations being based on the results of the last previously completed year, but this time lag is adjusted over a series of years. 
It. seems unlikely, at least for many years, that a position will be reached when grants will be unnecessary. Some adjustment must therefore he made to enable the less fortunate States to function on a basis comparable with the others. It is the aim of the Government that an impartial and periodic examination of the subject be maintained, and, in its opinion, that cannot be effected better than by a commission which impartially examines evidence and economic effects. The Government is confident that the proposed grants for  1937-38  represent a reasonable estimate of the needs of the States. 
Whilst the members of the Opposition have no immediate interest in this measure, Queensland not being a claimant State, they realize their duty to those who pay the taxes which make possible these payments to the claimant States. The Opposition does not begrudge these payments,' for it is always prepared to recognize the disabilities which some States suffer. It hopes, however, that in the near future, there will be a change of government, resulting in the lessening of the disabilities of certain States. 
I am thinking of unification, although I readily admit that, even under a unified form of government, there would still be ground for claims by Provinces, but not to the same  extent as at present. In the United States of America, because of the special difficulties of certain States, financial adjustments between the Federal and. State governments are constantly being made. In pre-war Germany, payments were made by the Reich to various States, but the position is different under the Nazi, regime and the Hitler dictatorship. Even in South Africa, where there is a unified form of government, financial adjustments between the provinces and the central government have to be made from time to time. 
There is dissatisfaction on the part of not only the claimant States, but also the other States, in regard to the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States. Speaking at a conference on constitutional matters about three years ago,  Mr. Forgan  Smith, the Premier of Queensland, said that it was grossly unfair that there should develop in Australia a financial over-lordship by the Commonwealth Government. He said that action would have to be taken to remedy what he described as . a hybrid state of affairs. 
Admittedly, there is a difference of opinion among the States upon this subject. The Premier of Queensland said that it would be only fair for the Commonwealth Government to take over some *.of the capital debts of the States. He contended that, as State governments expended large sums on roads and- other works, thus contributing to an improvement of Commonwealth finances, the Commonwealth should, as far as possible, reimburse them, especially as the tendency of the central government was to invade still further areas from which State governments obtained their revenue. However, this is a subject for future consideration rather than for debate on this measure. I merely express  the hope that one day the people of Australia will approve of proposals to widen the Constitution, and so render unnecessary the payment of further subsidies and grants to State governments. The smaller States must not misunderstand the attitude of the Labour party to their claims for compensation for disabilities which they suffer under the present federal system. I understand that the Commonwealth Grants Commission will shortly be abolished and that much of the work done by it will then be undertaken by the proposed Inter-State Commission. The personnel of the latter body is not yet settled, so we are not certain whether, as  rumoured.  Senator Sir George  Pearce will be its  chairman,  whether  Mr. Lyons  will take the job, or whether it will be given to  Senator E.  B. Johnston who, I think, would prove highly capable. But I have learned that there is likely to be some hitch over the arrangements, because of the possible construction to be placed on section 101 of the Constitution. According to the former Governor-General,  Sir Isaac  Isaacs, this section will prevent the Inter-State  Commission from taking over the work now being done by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I hope that this possibility, which, I understand, was mentioned by  Mr. Blackburn  in the House of Representatives, will not disturb unduly the minds of any aspirants for a position on the commission. We know that the first. Inter-State Commission, nearly in its career, encountered a veritable Serbonian bog of legal and constitutional difficulties. I doubt if it would be possible for anybody to satisfy the claims of all the States that have suffered disabilities under federation. I expect that my Tasmanian friends will have something to say about the conclusions of the commission in its fourth report. In paragraph 81 the commission stated - 
Tlie -dependence of the finance of Tasmania on federal subsidies gives cause for serious consideration ; and it would be unhealthy if this had to continue permanently. This position, however, has to be looked at in the light of the State's history, and of the static conditions of the last 20 and 30 years. Tasmania mice supplied the mainland with many products of the soil, from timber to wheat and from potatoes to hops. This market has declined because these industries have been developed on the mainland. 
Thus we see a development of the spirit of economic nationalism in the Commonwealth, industries which formerly flourished in Tasmania, being established on the mainland, to the detriment of the island State. 
That is because it was established in a fertile part of Australia, has been developed on scientific lines, and has rendered wonderful service to Australia, although  Senator Brennan  said on one occasion, prior to becoming a member of the Ministry, that it would pay Australia to abolish the sugar industry and pay a subsidy to every person engaged in it, in order to be free to import sugar from other countries. But I am digressing. The Commonwealth Grants Commission made this further statement in its fourth report - 
Tasmania is deficient in natural resources, and, as we have seen,has a poor terrain. But she has some assets of great value; and a constructive policy of development is needed to induce these to contribute to community income. 
I understand that the present Labour Government in Tasmania has adopted a constructive policy of development to counteract the effect of economic nationalism on the mainland. I feel sure that the pending economic development of Tasmania will make for the benefit of its people and that, under the aegis of a Labour government, the island State will again make rapid progress. 
I was interested in the commission's observations concerning future problems. In paragraph 222 it stated - 
The commission, in its recommendation of grants, has attempted to find amounts which will enable the claimant States to bring their financial position up to what the commission has called an Australian standard. 
It goes on to say that this standard has been based on the financial position of non-claimant States. For two years it took Queensland and Victoria as the standard. This year New South Wales is included - 
Three views have been put to us. The first view is that we should not do more than would enable the claimant States to balance their budgets, and, if the application of a standard obtained from the position of the standard States would do more than this, the excess should be ignored. This view is justified by the statement of principles of the old commission, although it never had to deal with this precise position. The second point of view was urged by South Australia, namely, that the grants should enable the claimant Statesto balance their budgets even if the standard States were in deficit. This the first commission rejected, and with that decision we agree. There remains the third view. Tasmania contended that if the standard States are in surplus there should be astandard surplus and the grants should enable the claimant States to show a surplus. This is the main point of controversy. We have not to decide it this year, but it may be an issue next year. 
Thus there are still many difficulties to be dealt with. The solution, I believe, is the adoption of a more modern form of government, wherein power is vested in the central governingbody and residual power is delegated to the States. 
I am aware that because of the disabilities which they suffer under federation, the claimant States require relief from year to year, and knowing the interest which our Tasmanian friends have in this matter, I shall listen with interest to what they, as well as senators from Western Australia and South Australia, may say on the bill. 
I am aware that anything that may be said in this debate will not alter the allocation of grants to the various States, but I wish to make it clear that I entirely disagree with the grounds upon which the grants have been made this year. As is well known, the personnel of the commission has been changed. Of the three original members only the  chairman  remains. This being so, the commission should have spent much more time in the various States than it did. When the commission was in Western Australia, one of the two new members was ill and unable to leave Perth, and the others spent only five days in the older and more established country areas. They did not see anything of the development that has taken place in the newer areas, and therefore were not in a position to decide whether money expended on developmental works had been used to the best advantage. I stated last year that the cost of clearing country and preparing it for full production was considerable. I also stressed this fact before the commission and they made the same comments in the report. The proposed grant to Western Australia is £61,000 less than last year, the actual amounts recommended being £439,000 as a grant and £136,000 as a loan. 
That is so, but a portion of it is to be regarded as a loan. 
An advance which has to be adjusted two years hence. I hope that it will not be regarded as a loan. The position ofWestern Australia calls for the most earnest consideration. Only 3 per cent. of the total area of the State has been alienated, another 3 per cent. is in course of alienation, 33 per cent. is held under leasehold, and thebalance, 61 per cent., is unoccupied. I contend that the Commonwealth Government is, to some extent, responsible financially for the development of those unoccupied areas. National security demands that some form of assistance should be given to Western Australia. In this matter I wish to be perfectly fair. I acknowledge the assistance rendered by the Commonwealth to my State. During the last six years there have been special grants amounting, in the aggregate, to £3,300,000; special non-recurring grants totalling £200,000; road grants under the Federal Aid Roads Act, amounting to £2,731,446; assistance to primary industries by way of bounties and special relief, £4,460,000 ; and in addition, approximately £620,000 annually under the financial agreement. The Commonwealth has also helped the smaller States by way of social services, such as pensions, and maternity allowances on an Australia-wide basis. Last year the commission, realizing that a portion of Western Australia was experiencing a very serious drought, increased the grant by £136,000; but that amount is to be adjusted in 1939-40, when the figures for this financial year are under consideration. The Loan Council also realized that Western Australia was experiencing adverse seasonal conditions, and agreed very largely, I think, with the views expressed by the Leader of the Senate, and allowed Western Australia an additional £1,000,000 for this year. While fully appreciating the fact that, when a drought occurs the budgetary position of the State concerned suffers in consequence of reduced revenue, many of the residents in that State receive practically no returns at all. Instead of taking the increase of £136,000 into account two years hence, I suggest that it should be distributed amongst those unfortunate people who have experienced drought conditions for two consecutive years; the amount might either be allocated on an acreage basis or paid to those who have reaped less than three or four bushels an acre. Moreover, many pastoralists have lost80 per cent. of the flocks, the restoration of which will take years. It would be a gracious act on the part of the Government to expend the amount mentioned in rehabilitating distressed wheat-farmers and pastoralists who have suffered so severely. If that were done many men, women and children in the droughtstricken area would be able to receive some of the comforts of life of which they have been deprived during the last two years. The budgetary position of the Commonwealth would not be affected, and, in view of the fact that the Commonwealth Grants Commission realized the extreme conditions which exist in that area, I trust that my suggestion will be adopted. The loan of an extra £1,000,000 to Western Australia is merely a loan to unfortunate settlers in drought-stricken areas, and will only build up the dead-weight debt on already overburdened farms. I realize that that is a responsibility of the State. 
The Commonwealth allows the State to use £300,000 of its loan moneys; but I am appealing for help in a different direction. In the drought-stricken area, many settlers are not clients of the Agricultural Bank, and therefore cannot obtain assistance. It would be a gift from the gods if they could receive some small allowance to enable them to renew the clothing of their children, which in many cases is completely worn out. Having been through the droughtstricken area on several occasions during the short period I have been a member of this chamber., I know the hardships which the settlers are experiencing, and I trust that some arrangement will be made so that the grant will not have to be repaid. 
Those who ask what the State is doing to assist the settlers while it is receiving money from the Commonwealth should read the following tables on page 33 of the commission's report under the heading of " Economic position of the claimant States " : - 

<graphic href="154332193709013_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will therefore be seen that the total of the rural, non-rural and factory production of Western Australia is higher than that of any other part of the Commonwealth, which proves conclusively that the Western Australian people are industrious. In 1934-35, Western Australia's total rural production  per capita  was 7 per cent.; non-rural production, chiefly mining, 268 per cent. ; all primary production, 56 per cent.; and the total of all production 13 per cent. above the average for the Commonwealth. It may be said that Western Australia should be in a fortunate position, but, as I have pointed out in this chamber on several occasions, many of the mines and factories in that State are controlled from the eastern States. On this point, the commission states - 
Any judgment of the relative prosperity of Western Australia cannot be guided alone by these figures. They fail, for instance, to express the facts of external ownership of absentee of landlordism, so to speak. Many mines have been financed by " foreign " capital; many industries are controlled from other States; many trading concerns are branches of interstate firms. Community income is reduced by dividends paid to external shareholders in the same way as it is by interest on the public debt. There is no way of reckoning this deduction accurately. The " balance of payments " for Western Australia would be a fair guide if it could be ascertained. 
As practically all the money borrowed to assist rural production is obtained from financial institutions in the eastern States the greater portion of the wealth pro duced and payments in the form of dividends is remitted to the eastern States. Moreover, the Western Australian people are obliged topurchase food and clothing from the eastern States to the value of £11,000,000. If more factories were owned in Western Australia, we would have sufficient fundsto establish additional secondary industries. In 1931-32, the net loan expenditure per head of population in Western Australia was £2 12s. 7d., and in 1935-36 it was £5 6s. 8d, whereas in 1931-32 the taxation per head of population was £3 6s. 4d., and in 1935-36 it was £6 3s. 5d. It will therefore be seen that the taxation imposed has been heavy. It is ridiculous for these fellows to spend five days in the State and then say that we do not suffer any disability under the tariff. Their report in that respect is a foolish and ill-considered statement. 
I stated earlier that I would suggest the way in which future grants should be allocated. I realize the difficult position of the Western Australian Government, but I believe that when the new commission commences its work, it should realize that 61 per cent. of Western Australia needs population, and the best way in which to populate that area would be to authorize the payment of a developmental grant rather than a grant which is paid into Consolidated Revenue. When money once reaches a government, it will most likely be expended in a way that will attract the attention of a large number of electors. That is the general practice with most governments, and' I do not think that the Western Australian Administration is an exception. The conservation of water in country areas and the purchase of water pipes to provide adequate supplies of water in isolated areas is of the greatest importance.  Senator Lynch  made an excellent suggestion regarding assistance to the mining industry. In travelling through the mining areas of Western Australia, I was impressed by the fact that that State is suffering from the lack of good, practical miners. Many experienced miners in Western Australia are to-day receiving pensions because they are certified as unfit for underground work, yet they are the men with a knowledge of mining conditions in that State. The adoption of  Senator Lynch's  suggestion would cost the Government very little, and it might result in the production of many millions of pounds worth of gold. These miners have a practical knowledge of mining in those areas where gold is most likely to be discovered in payable quantities. It has been proved, as the result of boring operations, that considerable bodies of ore exist in Western Australia; but, unfortunately, owing to the many wild-cat schemes that have shaken the confidence of investors in the past, owners are finding it difficult to get the necessary capital to procure plant and machinery to operate mines which might have up to 100,000 tons of payable ore blocked out and ready to bring to the surface. Considerable difficulty exists. in securing the capital necessary to bring mines into profitable production. 
I have just returned from a trip through the vast north-west of this country, and from the experiences gained during my travels I say that it should be part of the duty of each member of this Parliament at least once during his term of office to travel through the northwest of Western Australia and the Northern Territory, and familiarize himself with the conditions in those distant parts of the Commonwealth. I would even say that every member of this Parliament, in order to gain firsthand knowledge of the country as a whole, should visit all of the States. From the information which I gathered during my visit to the north-west of Western Australia-, . I have come to certain conclusions which I hesitate to express in this chamber. It must be patent to anybody with a knowledge!.- of the conditions which operate in the farflung portions of Australia that something must be done very soon if we intend to retain that part of the continent for any length of time. Large areas in the  north-west  of Western Australia and the Northern Territory have enormous possibilities, and only finance is necessary for their development. I hope that, when future grants to the States are under consideration, the need for the development of this portion of the Commonwealth will not be overlooked. 
As a layman, I feel somewhat diffident in offering any criticism of this bill, not because of the lack of definite opinion but more becauseof my lack of actuarial experience or education that would permit me to make an analysis of a mass of figures. Any criticism to be of value must offer an analysis of the figures relating to South Australia and their value when compared with the figures set out for the standard States. We recognize that the Commonwealth Grants Commission, at its inception, began by establishing a basis for its calculations. The commission, as reconstituted, has, in the introductory remarks of its latest report, expressed itself as satisfied with the basis originally adopted, and claims that its decisions are based on those premises. Many of the critics of the latest findings of the. commission appear to have an exceptionally hazy knowledge of the subject. In fact, many of them argue from premises which have been excluded by the commission. It must be admitted that even with the standard set there is ample scope for a very honest difference of opinion. Of course, I regret exceedingly the decision of the commission to reduce the grant to South Australia below the amount made available last year. I view with alarm the rapid decrease of the grant during the past two years. South Australians, as citizens of the Commonwealth, frankly admit that all sections of the community are much better off than they were two or three years ago; but, knowing the conditions in my own State, I am of opinion that, comparing the added prosperity with the decreased grant, and taking into consideration the fact that the present commission is working on the same basis as the original commission, the decrease is unduly severe. I do not insinuate bias on the part of the commission, nor do I, in any way, question the integrity of the members of that body. Amongst the disabilities for which relief is granted to the claimant States is the amount of their taxation, the standard fixed being the average taxation of the non-claimant States. For the purposes of analysis the commission divides taxation under different headings - taxation for social services, motor taxation, local government taxation, and other imposts. These divisions are further dissected and are then allowed or disallowed wholly or in part. One is inclined to query this procedure because, although we speak of certain " State disabilities ", they are really the disabilities of the resident taxpayers, and if any relief is given for excessive taxation, the taxpayers are entitled to full consideration, regardless of how the tax is allocated unless it can be shown that the money so collected has been recklessly or extravagantly used by a government. If taxes have been extravagantly used by a government the taxpayers can effect a change of government. 
Another feature of the commission's investigations which has seriously affected the claimant States is that, in arriving at a standard of comparison, the commission has included the figures for New South Wales. Previously, the claimant States were subjected to a 6 per cent. reduction of the average net cost of social services in the then standard States of Victoria and Queensland. With the inclusion of New South Wales this reduction was increased to 10 per cent., which resulted in a difference of some £80,000 in the South Australian figures. With due deference to the commission, I was somewhat surprised at the statement in paragraph 164 of its report that " the claimant States have urged the inclusion of New South Wales ". Some of them may certainly have done so, but I know of no occasion when South Australia advocated that. I know that South Australia urged the exclusion of Queensland and asked that Victoria should be accepted as the standard State. 
The commission was also very outspoken with regard to the loans of the claimant States. On page 16 of its report it said - 
Grants are made, partly to rectify inequalities in the financial system of the group, and partly to prevent default; and duringthe past few years the prevention of default has been all important. In the recommendations, therefore, loan charges have been allowed in full, with only the modification represented by a small penalty. 
That is a penalty on the smaller States - 
This should be recognized by the claimant States when criticizing our recommendations in detail. These debts have been incurred by the States on their own responsibility, and the losses represent failure and miscalculation intensified by a lack of firmness in administration. 
I regard that criticism as very severe, because during the last four or five years no State has been more severe on its people than South Australia, nor have the finances of any State been more economically administered. This surely cannot be held against South Australia for all time. Since the establishment of the Loan Council opportunity for extravagant borrowing has been curtailed. I think this aspect may be eliminated in the future inquiries of the commission. On page 132 of its report the commission stated - 
South Australia did not submit figures showing how the amount claimed, viz., £2,000,000, was computed. The formal application for a special grant was expressed thus - " A formal claim for a special grant of £2,000,000 for the financial year 1937-38 is now made . . . The grounds for the claim are - 
To compensate the State for disabilities sustained under federation. 
To enable State taxation to be reduced to a level commensurate with that levied in other States. 
To enable the State to balance its budget ". 
The commission would lead one to believe that practically no figures were supplied by South Australia. As a matter of fact, when the South Australian Disabilities Commission met the Commonwealth Grants Commission in Adelaide on the 2nd February, 1937, and presented the case for South Australia, it was willing to supply any evidence required to substantiate the claim for a grant of £2,000,000 made by South Australia on the 18th August, 1936. The evidence given before the Grants Commission, or the substance of it, is contained in a printed paper, a perusal of which will satisfy the most critical financial student that reliable figures were furnished by all South Australian departments, setting out the position from 1899 to 1936. I cannot understand how the commission could say that, there was only a bald application for a grant of £2,000,000, without giving figures to substantiate the statement. Probably no State has been more consistent than South Australia 'in its advocacy of the appointment of a commission to determine the amounts to be paid to the smaller States by way of grants rather than leave this entirely to parliamentary debate. I do not question the decision of the commission at this juncture, but I feel sure that the arguments used by the South Australian Disabilities Commission, and those which have been advanced in this chamber by members from the claimant States, will assist in regard to future decisions. No doubt the amounts of the next grants will be determined by another commission. Despite what has been said by  Senator Brown  this afternoon, I have no doubt that the Inter-State Commission will have the necessary power to decide what future grants shall be made to the smaller States. I consider that I have offered fair criticism, and I hope that it will be of some help in regard to future grants. 
Until May, 1932, this Parliament had  the  assistance of a Public Accounts Committee, and a few days ago I placed a question on the notice-paper asking whether this committee would be reconstituted. It seems to me that inquiries by such a body would be of great advantage in dealing with State grants and the banking system. Every honorable senator will admit that on going into the figures published in the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, even if we have before us the views of men who have been engaged for almost a lifetime in that, class of work, we become more or less bewildered. If a Public Accounts Committee could analyse the figures, it would be of great advantage to this Parliament and .to the States generally. Such a committee is appointed by the House of Commons, and it has very wide powers. If a uniform system of bookkeeping were adopted by the various State governments and the Commonwealth Government, it would help to solve some of the problems that arise in dealing with the claims of the smaller States. It appears to me that in many instances the allocation of the grants, rather than the total sum voted, is the chief cause of trouble. I happened to be a member of the Parliament of South Australia for some time, and there I always held the view that a commission should be appointed to deal with these matters. 
It would not be fair on my part to dispute the decision of the umpire on this occasion, but I think that the decrease of the grant is out of proportion to the increase of prosperity. South Australia is decidedly better off than it was two or three years ago, but so also are Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. I have no doubt that the three claimant States will still be asking for grants for some years to come, and, whatever the next commission may do in the matter, I think that it would be advisable to provide for a fixed grant, which could be increased, if necessary, in the event of a particularly bad year being experienced. 
I congratulate the last  speaker  on his remarks. He has obviously devoted a good deal of consideration to this subject. To some extent, I agree with him, but I am not in entire accord with him in the suggestion that if one disagrees with a finding one is making an attack on the umpire. The commission is expected to do the best it can to reach an impartial decision. It is open to anybody, whether a member of parliament or not, to say whether he considers the commission right or wrong in its finding, and if wrong, where. So long as his remarks are impersonal, as far as the commission is concerned, there can be no objection to criticism; but I suggest that honorable senators have very little reason to be critical of the commissions which have been carrying out this arduous work for the last three years. I remember the debate/ in this chamber on the appointment of the original commission, and the fact that the Chairman; in particular, was fiercely, and, I think, quite undeservedly, assailed, because those who know anything about him will admit that he is a man of very great ability and industry, as well as integrity. I remember  Sir Harry  Lawson saying so when the bill was before this chamber. 
A publicist is expected to express Iris views on public affairs. I suppose that I do not change my views as much as most people do; but I admit that, with increasing knowledge, and on .viewing matters from new angles, a man may find that he has to alter his opinions considerably. 
I do not in any way associate myself with personal criticism of  Mr. Eggleston,  for whom I have much admiration, although I know him only slightly. I think that Ave were also fortunate in the two other members of the commission who have retired. I need hot indulge in any eulogy of them, but I think that  Sir Wallace  Sandford, who was selected from my own State, is an able man, and did valuable work on the commission. At the same time, I regret that, in the change that was made, for some reason or other - it may have been the lack of a suitable man - a Western Australian was not appointed to the new commission. 
The present Commonwealth Grants Commission is what one might call only a temporary body. It may be that, when the members of the Inter-State 00m-mission are known, a West Australian will be found to have been appointed. Western Australia is furthest away from the centre of things in Australia, and I think it very desirable, from the point of view of the whole of Australia, that a West 
Australian should be a member of the new body. 
This seems to be a suitable opportunity to recognize the fact that, whilst the smaller States received a good deal of consideration from the Bruce-Page Government, they have had even more consideration from the Government which has been in power for the last six years. In saying that, I do not suggest that the smaller States have got everything they would have liked, or thought" they should have had; ''but the fact remains that, by the appointment of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, and speaking generally, the claimant States, as they are called - and nobody who looks at the matter fairly can contest this statement - have had better treatment than, ever before in the way of help m respect of their disabilities or needs. It might have been better, if there had not been so much necessity for these needs to be assessed and made good. Nevertheless, assuming a continuance, of the present policy of this country, this Government has done more for the smaller States than has any previous ministry. I must confess that, when this commission was appointed, I was in considerable doubt as to whether th© Government would stand up to the payments which the commission  might  suggest. There was never any guarantee, and rightly so, that the Government would commit itself to approve of any payments which the commission considered should be made to the smaller States ; but, as a matter of fact, in every case the amounts recommended by the commission have been accepted by the Government. 
I do not think so. I should have a much lower opinion of the Leader of the Senate than I 'have if I thought that he would commit himself in advance to any payment which the commission might recommend. I do not believe that any sensible government would dream of doing such a thing. 
Speaking in general terms, I should prefer that these grants be assessed on the basis of disabilities rather than needs. 
A grant made on the basis of needs may easily come to be regarded as being in the nature of a charity, or a dole; whereas a grant based on disabilities is regarded as something in the way of a recompense for disadvantages actually suffered. There is always the clanger that a grant based on needs will be greater than is justified by deserts. Personally, I favour disabilities as the determining factor, although, as regards the tariff, for instance, the commission is of the opinion that it causes no real  disability to the smaller States, because, for any disability that it causes they hold that there is a compensating advantage. 
It is undoubtedly true that it is difficult to assess disabilities, but I do not think that the difficulty is insuperable. The commission informs us that Tasmania has accepted needs as the basis of its grant, and that South Australia, reserves the right to base its claim on other grounds when a new authority has been appointed. I am glad to notice that Western Australia has consistently adhered to the view that disabilities should be the determining factor. If it is claimed that there is no disability, it is natural to look around to find grounds for that claim. I do not propose to go into details in this matter, or to recite all the points which South Australia might advance, and to some extent has advanced in support of its claim for an increased grant, but I say that, regarding Australia as a whole, it is evident that Western Australia has not developed to the extent that we might have expected. It is generally agreed, by those who think on these matters at all, that Queensland and Western Australia are the States which possess the greatest chances of development. If that be so, those two States, particularly Western Australia, which is right away from the centres of population, are not going ahead as quickly as the interests of Australia, as a whole demand. How can we expect, anything else, when on page 166 of the report we find that the urban population of Australia constitutes 64 per cent, of the total population of the Commonwealth? That means that in the cities and those towns which are incorporated for local government, there are nearly two people to every one person in country areas. In my opinion, that is unsound and lopsided, and it is one of the reasons why I have consistently urged greater decentralization of the population. There is opportunity - for greater settlement in country districts in Western Australia, and one can only hope that the decisions and recommendations of the new commission, which is to be appointed, will assist in that direction. Unfortunately, both the wealth and the man-power of the smaller States are flowing to the more densely populated and more highly industrialized States; and that tendency will increase more "and more as secondary industries develop. That is another reason why I prefer that grants to the States should be based on disabilities. I am certain that disabilities exist, and also that a continuation of the present Australian policy will mean that  they  will increase, and that the smaller States will have growing difficulty in balancing their budgets and in maintaining their existing standard of living, because, as I have said, there is a tendency for both population and wealth to flow more and more to the eastern States. Should the proposals of the Government for the development of the shale oil deposits at Newnes be successful, the expenditure of Commonwealth money will tend to augment the population and increase the wealth of the eastern portion of Australia, thereby causing financial and other difficulties in other parts of the Commonwealth. Again, every reference to the hydrogenation process for the extraction of oil from coal naturally has in mind in this case the development of one of the stronger States. That is necessarily so, because the process can be undertaken only where coal exists. Even in defence matters there is a tendency for the bulk of the money to be expended in the more densely populated areas. 
That may be ; but it would be far better if the people were scattered more generally throughout the Commonwealth so that there would lie less wilderness. There is  much to be said for spending, as far as possible, in each State a portion of the defence vote for the whole of the Commonwealth. That has been done to some extent, particularly as regards Western Australia, but I do not know of any increased expenditure recently on defence works in either Tasmania or South Australia. I do not wish to be unduly critical of a report which I have not yet had time to consider in minute detail. I doubt whether any honorable senator has had sufficient time to compare the commission's latest report with its third report. Nor do I suggest that there are not in it statements which are capable of being criticized by the States; but I do say that, looking at the whole subject broadly, and assuming that the present Australian policy will be continued, the Government has done more for the smaller States than any other government has attempted to do. I shall therefore support the measure in its entirety. 

 Sitting suspended from6.14 to 8 p.m. 

.- In this debate so far we have heard mostly from the representatives of States which may be regarded as thereceivers of Commonwealth bounty, so it is fitting that something should be said by the representatives of States which stand in the position of givers, particularly as the receivers have, I consider, been looking a gift horse in the mouth. The biblical statement that it is more blessed to give than to receive is not always comfortable to the giver. The system for the distribution of Commonwealth grants to claimant States on account of disabilities or needs is entirely wrong, and some better method should be devised. I am not, at the moment, prepared to offer a suggestion on this point, but I believe that a thorough investigation should be made by competent authorities to see if some more satisfactory arrangement can be made that will place the financial relations of the Commonwealth and States on a better basis. 
I do not know, but I am convinced that this is one of the major problems and it will have to be solved some day. It is not businesslike that State treasurers should be dependent on the overflowing coffers of the Commonwealth. As a matter of fact, the Commonwealthhas not the purse of Midas. Its coffers are just about depleted and it has nothing more to give to the States. In this measure, for example, we arc handing over to the States  £2,500,000.  This cannot make pleasant reading for the people of Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland, who provide the bulk of the tax revenue of the Commonwealth. Naturally they will think that if this immense disbursement of revenue had not to be made the Commonwealth would be able to reduce their tax burdens very substantially, and that, I need hardly say, would be most acceptable to them. The claimant States have put forward the plea that they suffer certain disabilities under federation. A patient investigation by men who know their job and of whose impartiality there can be no doubt, has disclosed that the disabilities of the smaller States are imaginary rather than real, and that the advantages which they enjoy under federation more than balance any disabilities which they may suffer. If, for instance, the claims of South Australia for compensation in respect of disabilities due to Commonwealth tariff policy were considered in all its aspects, our South Australian friends would have to confess that if the factories of General Motors Holdens Limited, T. J. Richards &amp; Sons Limited, and a number of other firms which have prospered under protection, were removed to the eastern States, many thousands of South Australian operatives would be thrown  Out  of work. It is as well that people in the claimant States should remember that the great bulk of the Commonwealth revenue is collected in the eastern States, and much of it is distributed through various Commonwealth channels on what may be termed a flat rate to the smaller States. According to the Commonwealth Grants Commission, the advantages which these States enjoy in this way balance any disabilities which they may suffer in other directions. I repeat that the system of distributing the Commonwealth grants is unbusinesslike and unsatisfactory, because if a State mismanages its finances so seriously as to get into difficulties, all  it need do is to appeal to the Commonwealth for assistance on the ground of needs. The excuse that it suffers disabilities under federation was long ago worked out. Apparently the intention is to subsidize the claimant States to an extent necessary to bring their finances up to the average for the Commonwealth. For this purpose a comparison is this year made of the budgetary position of the States of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. Hitherto Victoria and Queensland have been regarded as standard States. 
In addition to the advantages which the smaller States will enjoy under this measure it should not be forgotten that the Federal Aid Roads and Works Bill, which was passed in the last session, confers substantial benefits on them. The sum of £1,260,000, practically one-third of the petrol tax, is collected in Victoria, and £450,000 of that amount will be used for the making of roads in Western Australia. Where, then, are the grievances of the smaller States ? 
By that reasoning Western Australia ought to be in no need of assistance now, because of the revival of gold-mining and the high price of the metal. 
I admit that Western Australia is a good customer of the eastern States, and takes annually about £10,000,000 worth of manufactured goods. 
Well, let us say it takes £11,000,000 worth of goods manufactured in the eastern States. The average profit earned by manufacturers is not more than 5 per cent., so the actual contribution to the eastern States by 
Western Australia is not so substantial as the honorable gentleman would suggest. 
Victoria is a good example for Western Australia to follow. I remind  Senator Marwick  that, when the population of Victoria approximated that of Western Australia to-day, its manufacturing industries were fairly well established. 
I know that Victoria is a well-managed State, and I consider that it deserves its high place in the federation. I have no desire to block the passage of the bill or to reflect upon the claimant States, but it is just as well that the views of Victoria, New South Wales and to a lesser extent, Queensland, should be stated, because the people of those States are " carrying the baby. " For instance, the operations of the Postal Department in the three eastern States show immense profits, whereas, in Western Australia, the telephone services show a loss and the postal figures just about balance. A large proportion of the profits earned by this department in the eastern States is used for the extension of postal services, and Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania get more than their fair share. 
I rose to speak in this debate because I considered that the practice of looking a gift horse in the mouth is being carried a bit too far by senators from the claimant States. Even if the gift horse has not very many teeth it is still a good horse, and the recipient should not look on it with suspicion. The smaller States should be grateful for the grants which the Commonwealth is making to them. From a business point of view, I doubt that the claimant States are entitled to anything. 
That section was not inserted for the purpose of ensuring grants to any of the States. 
My impression is that the claimaint States now expect not justice, but generous treatment at the hands of the larger States. It should never be forgotten that the grants to the smaller States come from Commonwealth taxes and that the Commonwealth Government gets the whole of the blame for their imposition. Except for the demands of the smaller States, there would be no need for the Commonwealth to budget in excess of its requirements. But the position being as it is, the Commonwealth has to raise immense sums by taxation and hand them over to the States to enable them to balance their budgets. Thus the States get .the money without any of the odium attached to the method adopted for raising it. In 1926, of the total revenue raised from Australian taxpayers, the Commonwealth took 57 per cent, for its purposes and the States received 42.9 per cent. In the last financial year, the Commonwealth took 45.3 per cent., and the States 54.7 per cent. 
Yes. If such direct imposts as sales tax were included, probably SO per cent, of the total collections would be obtained in the three eastern States. . I am wondering how long they will tolerate the present unsatisfactory position. 
One would think, from, the honorable senator's interjection, that there arc no farmers in Victoria, New South Wales, or Queensland, when, as a matter of fact, although South Australia and Western Australia are regarded as primary-producing States, Victoria, New South Wales, and Queensland lead in primary production. The grants made under this bill are an act of grace and are based on needs, not disabilities.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has said that he would prefer the grant to be based on disabilities. If that principle were observed, the claimant States would get nothing. 
I know of a need without a disability and that, I suggest, is the position of the claimant States. The system for the distribution of these grants is, in essence, bad. The States should raise the money which they spend. That is a sound principle of government. I am not offering any alternative course, but it has occurred to mc that if some arrangement could be made for the Commonwealth to take over some of the States' functions such, for instance, as education and, perhaps, railways administration, the relations of Commonwealth and States would be regularized. My objection is not to the bill so much as to the system for the allocation of the grants, and I hope that, before long, it will be possible to put State finances on a proper basis. The States should raise all the revenue they require and spend it according to their needs. 
.- I should not have spoken on the second reading of this bill but for the extraordinary speech delivered by  Senator Leckie.  I remind the honorable senator that we have a federation into which all States entered in a spirit of co-operation. It was understood at the inception of the union that some States would experience serious disabilities, and that others would benefit. I cannot help thinking of the benefits obtained by the eastern States, and the losses sustained by the less populous States. The enormous areas of two of the so-called smaller States render it necessary for the other States to come to their rescue, in the true spirit of federation. I represent a State which has as many difficulties as any other member of the federation, largely because of its isolation in that it is separated from the mainland by 200 miles of water. Owing to. its contour, the cost of development is much greater relatively than that in any other State of the Commonwealth. Those who have visited Tasmania must have realized the enormous engineering difficulties that have to be encountered over a large portion of the State  to render the land productive. Unfortunately, many persons have the idea that, because Tasmania is sometimes designated " The Garden of Australia " it has no poor land ; but that is not the case. Those areas which can be made highly productive are separated by large tracts of unproductive country, and very heavy expenditure has tobe incurred in bringing the adjoining country into production.  Senator Leckie  should be one of the last to complain of the financial assistance proposed to be granted to the claimant States. 
I know of no State in the Commonwealth which has benefited more from Tasmanian trade than has Victoria. The Tasmanian people get a large proportion of their requirements from Victoria, yet  Senator Leckie  objects to Tasmania and other States receiving grants to assist their development, which benefits not only them, but also the whole Commonwealth. The stronger members of the family should help the weaker members. I appreciate the help given to Tasmania, and I trust that some day there will be no need for that State to seek financial assistance from the Commonwealth. I understand that it is proposed to reconstitute the Inter-StateCommission, and I presume that no grant will be made to any claimant State until a close investigation has been made by that body. I support the bill. 
If the speech delivered by  Senator Leckie  has served no other purpose, it has directed attention to the nature of the opposition to the claimant States which have suffered so much under the federal system. In reviewing briefly the report, of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, I cannot disregard the fact that each recommendation made within the last few years has been less favorable to Western Australia. In 1933-34, before the commission was appointed, the grant to that State was £600,000. The commission was then appointed, and after an exhaustive examination of the finances of the claimant States, it found that the amount paid by the Commonwealth during the previous year was fair and in 1934-35, a similar grant of £600,000 was recommended. The second report of the commission was presented, curiously enough, after the referendum on secession had been held, when the people of Western Australia, by a two to one majority, declared for separation from the Commonwealth. Shortly after the vote was taken, a Federal cabinet meeting was held in Perth, and we discovered that our grant had been increased to £800,000 for 1935-36. That was a direct benefit from the secession vote. But in 1936-37, the amount was reduced by £300,000; the State's deficit that year was a little in excess of that amount. I protested last year, and I again protest, against the action of the Commonwealth Government in varying the grant from year to year instead of making a fixed grant for a term of years. Last year the premier's budget speech had been delivered before the Government knew what the amount of the Commonwealth . grant was to be and, when a reduction of the amount was announced, the State's finances were seriously dislocated. When the commission was appointed, we thought that it would recommend a fixed grant over a stated period, and in that way let the States know,bef ore their budgets were prepared, the amount they were to receive. We now find that the grant of £500,000 for 1936-37 included an advance of £44,000, which is to be adjusted in 1938-39. I did not realize at the time that the actual grant last year was not £500,000, but was £466,000, a reduction of £344,000 on theprevious year. Western Australia is entitled to a greater measure of financial stability than it has to day, particularly in view of the possibility of the number of senators holding views similar to those expressed by  Senator Leckie  increasing. Our actual grant this year has been reduced to £439,000, when allowance is made for the advance of £136,000 which is to be deducted two years hence. Two years ago the grant to Western Australia was £800,000, but this year, despite two bad droughts and a serious position in the whole of our pastoral areas, it has been reduced to £439,000, only a little more than one half. It appears to me that if it goes on diminishing much longer, there will be no need for a commission to assess grants to the States. Until I read the Treasurer's budget speech and heard the remarks of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to-day, I hoped that the Government would not approve of the commission's recommendation that £136,000 of this year's grant should be regarded only as an advance. In view of the very difficult financial position of Western Australia, as disclosed by a deficit of over £300,000 last year, and in view of the distressed condition of a large portion of our agricultural areas, and almost the whole of the outer pastoral areas, I was hoping that the Government would be generous enough to grant £575,00.0 this year, without ^ regarding any portion of it as an advance. I still think that that would be the right thing to do, and I coin mend  Senator Marwick  for the valuable suggestion he has made that the £136,000 should he given to the State and earmarked for the relief of those who have suffered so severely through drought during the last two years. I trust that the Minister will intimate that that policy will be adopted. On page 91 of the commission's report the following paragraph appears - 
As indicated in paragraph 216 an advance of £44,000 was included in the Western Australian grant of £500,000 for 1936-37. In making this advance it was pointed out that it would be taken into account when a grant was recommended on the basis of the financial position for 1936-37. 
It will be seen that over the last two years Western Australia has been given £170,000 in advances. That State has suffered because it is not represented on the commission, which unfortunately spends only a limited time in the State. Western Australia,' alone of the claimant States, has never had a representative on the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I do not know why the members of the commission do not spend one-third of their time in each of the claimant States. They were content to pay a brief visit to Western Australia, and the visit included a little run to the wheat belt and southwest portions of the State, which are amongst its most beautiful and fertile areas. Such a brief excursion in pleasant summer weather will not help them very much to arrive at a real understand ing of the position of a State, constituting almost one-third of Australia, and extending from the tropical north-west to the far south. The report stated - 
The figures for 1936-37 will form the basis of the grant for 1938-39- 
They are always a couple of years behind the times - 
And the £44,000 advance should normally be deducted from the grant for 1938-39. The advance of £136,000 recommended for 1937-38 should be repaid or ' adjusted in a similar way. 
That is to say, it should be deducted from the grant for 1939-40, which will be based on the figures for 1937-38, the year in which the advance was received - 
The procedure suggested involves a lag in repayment of advances corresponding to the lag in the payment of grants which now takes place. 
Finally, we recommend grants as follows for the year 1937-38: - 

<graphic href="154332193709013_30_4.jpg"></graphic>

It is a' curious fact that, when the first intimation of the amount of the grant was telegraphed to Western Australia, we were told that a grant of £575,000 had been recommended, apparently an advance of £75,000 over the previous year's grant; but, on the following day, the sad news was received that the real grant was to be £439,000, and that the balance of £136,000 was to be an advance against what we are to receive two years hence. I emphasize again that this so-called advance of £136,000 should not he  regarded  as an advance or a loan. There is nothing in the bill to say that it is an advance or a loan. The bill speaks of " a grant " of £575,000 to Western Australia, I ask that the amount of £136,000 be made a free gift to Western Australia for the assistance of those people in the agricultural and pastoral areas who have suffered severely from drought during the last two years. This assistance is needed to augment the provision made for this purpose by the State'Government from its scanty resources. I had hoped that the Government would have taken up this attitude in regard to the grant for Western Australia, but I was disillusioned when the Treasurer  (Mr. 
Casey), in introducing this bill in the House of Representatives on the 24th August, made it quite clear that the £136,000 is to be regarded as an advance. He said - 
A feature to which I draw special attention is the advance of £130,000 to Western Australia. The proposed grant for 1937-38 to that State consists of a grant proper of £439,000 and an advance of £136,000, the total being £575,000. 
Yes ; I am glad that that  Shylockian  remark has not come from the ministerial bench - 
 The grants for 1937-38, for which appropriation is now sought, are assessed on the results of the financial year 1935-36, the last year for which complete statistics were avail' able to the commission. As, however, Western Australia has been suffering from a severe  drought,  the effects of which on its budgetary position are already being felt, the commission recommends an advance of £136.000 so that the State may receive the assistance at the time when it is most needed. 
Here is the Treasurer of the Commonwealth, whom I regard as a clever and capable gentleman, pointing out that Western Australia, has suffered from severe drought conditions, the effects of which arc already being reflected in its budgetary position. In view of this admission, we would have expected him to say that ho would increase the grant to £S00,000, the amount provided for Western Australia two years ago, when that State was in much less difficult circumstances. But the honorable gentleman did not say anything of the kind. On the contrary, he said, " We shall reduce the grant to little more then onehalf of what it was two years ago, hut we shall give Western Australia an advance of £136,000." That amount, even as a grant to make up for the   difficult  circumstances of drought which were investigated on the spot by the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Thorby)  a little more than a year ago, would be' altogether inadequate, but I hope that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  will be able to tell us that the Government has decided to treat the amount not as an advance, but as a straight-out grant to the State towards relieving the distressed settlers in the wheat areas, particularly those in the north-western districts, who, during last harvest when prices were good, were in the . unsatisfactory position of having little or no wheat to garner. During the Treasurer's speech,  Mr. Curtin  interjected - 
The commission has failed to explain why its new .system of making an area allowance has not been .applied retrospectively. The States affected must have suffered considerable loss through its omission in the past. 
I think  Mr. Curtin  might have gone further. If, for the first time, area is being taken into consideration as a new factor in assessing grants, I ask why, in view of the fact that Western Australia constitutes nearly one-third of the total area of the Commonwealth and yet has only about one-sixteenth of the Australian population, the .grant to that State is being reduced from £800,000 two years ago, to £439,000 for the present financial year? That is most unsatisfactory; obviously there is something wrong with the commission's finding. I should like the Government to refer the report back to the commission for further investigation: I suggest that the members of the commission should spend two or three months in Western Australia examining the matter thoroughly, and that they might well emulate  Senator Marwick  and myself by taking a trip through the northwest portion of Western Australia. They would not then recommend a reduction of the grant to £439,000, when, for the first time, area was being taken into consideration. "If the commission had not taken, area into account, to what amount  would, the grant have been reduced ? The Treasurer said further - 
The commission . has never pretended to place its recommendations upon a strictly arithmetical basis. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  - From what report is the honorable senator reading? 
From  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - Tho honorable senator is not in order in quoting the  Ham-sard  report of the debates in the House of Representatives during the current session. 
Yes, I believe that  Senator Pearce  said this afternoon  - 
The commission lias never pretended to place its recommendations upon a strictly arithmetical basis. It has gone on investigating and improving its technique year by year. 
Its technique may have been improved from the point of view of the Treasurer, who is anxious to show a surplus, and who, I admit, is doing good work for Australia in sonic directions. I give him every credit for that, but not for the reduction of the grant. 
I was giving the credit to the Treasurer; but whenever I have occasion to do so it will be a pleasure for me to give to the Leader of the Senate the full credit .that, in my opinion, his public services deserve. The right honorable gentleman continued- 
This advance is to be adjusted in the year 1939-40, grants for which will be based on. the accounts for thu current year, 1037-38. A similar advance of £44,000 was included in the amount paid in .1936-37 and this is due lor adjustment in 1938-39. 1 appeal this time to  Senator Sir George  Pearce to make the amount of £136,000 a grant to Western Australia to be earmarked for the relief of settlers who have suffered from drought. If the right honorable gentleman will persuade the Government to do that, he will be doing something which both he and I know is fully warranted by the circumstances of the people. He knows that there can be no justification whatever for the reduction under this bill of a grant of £S00,000 two years ago to £439,000 this year. I challenge the Government or the commission to show any warrant for such a reduction at a time when the economic circumstances of many people on the land in Western Australia are very much worse than they were two years ago. The Government should have rejected the recommendation that the £136,000 should be regarded as an advance; it might well have made a gift of the amount. Even then the grant to Western Australia would 1 1 fi  ve been very small. If the Go vernment accepts this recommendation, it will show that  both  the Government and the commission have displayed an utter lack of sympathy with the sufferers from drought in both the agricultural and pastoral areas of Western Australia. My State wants a straight out grant of £575,000. Again I protest against Western Australia being singled out by a portion of the grant being regarded as an advance against money that is to bc received from the Commonwealth two years hence. The commission has gone off the rails in this matter. The Government has rejected many recommendations by other commissions, including important proposals made by the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry, and I urge it to reject the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission that £136,000 of the amount to be received by Western Australia be regarded as a loan. 
Let us consider the budgetary position of the Commonwealth. I was amazed to find that, in a record budget  providing for the expenditure 'of £85,000,000, £3,000,000 more than last year, one of the amounts in which a reduction is being made is that of the grants to the smaller States. All are experiencing a reduction, but Western Australia, which is the largest in area, is for the first time having the biggest reduction, compared with two. years ago, and also the heaviest, since the beginning of federation. I protest against this treatment of Western Australia. I point out how small is the grant provided to this State, when compared with those to the other two claimant States, when the matter is considered on a population basis. The grant works out, in the case of Western Australia, at 19s. 4d. per head of the population, compared with £2 0s. 9d. for South Australia, and £2 9s. 5d. for Tasmania, and this despite the fact that, with the more than average masculinity of the population of Western Australia, the contributions of that State to customs and excise are higher per head of the population than are those of any other State. If the Government approves of my request, and regards the amounts of £136,000 and £44,000 as grants and not advances, the amount per head of the population granted to Western Australia will still be very much lower than those received by the other claimant States. At present it is less than onehalf of that of South Australia, and only two-fifths of that of Tasmania. The Government should increase the grant to £800,000, and even then it would be only a small grant per head of the population compared with that voted to the two other claimant States. In view of the scattered nature of the population of Western Australia, which has the task of developing one-third of the area of the Australian continent, the Commonwealth Government has shown an utter lack of consideration for that State. Its population is only one-sixteenth of that of the Commonwealth, and greater consideration should have been given to its claims in the interests of national safety and a fairly balanced Australian development. 
I say also - and I commend  Senator Duncan-Hughes  for his remarks on the subject - that grants, should be made mainly on the basis of disabilities imposed by federation. I am pleased to know that governments of varying political character in Western Australia have always urged the adoption of that basis. Grants should be given for disabilities under federation, rather than on the basis of needs alone, as decided by the commission. In looking through the States  Grants Acts I can see nothing to justify the commission in deciding, as it  did;  in that matter. It went beyond the powers granted by the act governing its appointment, and this fact gives all the more backing to the request that the Government should not approve of its recommendation  in toto  as it always has done in the past. 
The first royal commission was appointed in 1925 to consider the disabilities of Western Australia under federation, and the title of its report showed that that was what it did. Its major recommendation, which was never carried into effect by any Commonwealth Government, was that for a period- of 25 years Western Australia should be permitted to control its own tariff. That was the recommendation of two of the three members of the commission. The third commissioner said that that plan would not be satisfactory, and he recommended that the State should secede from the Commonwealth. I am prepared for the present debate to stand solely on the majority recommendations of the commission, although secession would be more acceptable. Its  chairman, Mr. Higgs,  an ex-Treasurer of the Commonwealth, not only said that the tariff was a burden to Western Australia, rather than merely a disability, but he also recommended that for a period of 26 years Western Australia should he given complete tariff control of its own territory. 
But Western Australia did not stand up to that. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission also refused to recognize the burden of the tariff as a ground for giving Western Australia special consideration, despite the huge volume of evidence provided, not only by the royal commission that, in 1925, inquired into the disabilities of the State under federation, but also by the five Australian economists who were appointed by the Bruce-Page Government to inquire into the effect of the Australian tariff. The latter reported that Western Australia suffered more than any other State through the tariff, and that the loss to the primary producers, and to the State generally, amounted to millions of pounds yearly. Yet the Commonwealth Grants Commission says that it does not consider this a burden at all and gives no grant to compensate for the injury suffered by our people from the tariff ! I have before mc a copy of the report by Professor Bridgen, Professor Copland,  Mr. E.  C. Dyason, Professor Giblin and  Mr. C.  H. Wickens entitled  The Australian Tariff.  At page 230 the report states - 
The subsidies to production through the tariff are £36,000,000, which would average a.ll round £6 per head of population. But if the £36,000,000 is distributed among States iii proportion to the quantity of protected indus- try, the amount per head will vary greatly from State to State, as shown approximately in the following table: - 

<graphic href="154332193709013_34_5.jpg"></graphic>

These amounts are additions made to the income per head in each State, and no immediate deduction can be made as to the consequent effect on State revenue. But it is to he noticed that the subsidies to Victoria and Queensland are twice as great as those to Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. 
We next inquire in what proportion these subsidies are contributed by the different States in paying the excess prices of protected Australian products. We have found that these excess costs are borne in the last resort partly by luxury expenditure and fixed incomes and protected production itself, but most of all by the export industries. Without attempting to give a full distribution, of costs on these lines, we may say that the result is to make the burden per head of Victoria, and Queensland, which have relatively small exports, much below the general average, with the other States above the average and Western Australia particularly high. 
Yet the grant to be made to Western Australia this year is reduced by almost one half, compared with two years ago, and no consideration whatever is given by the commission to the views of the five noted Australian economists, who further stated - 
So it comes about that the same two States, Victoria and Queensland, both get the greatest increase to income per head, and pay least per head for it; New South Wales is in a middle position; and the other three States both receive least and pay most, with Western Australia in a somewhat worse position than Smith Australia and Tasmania. 
It is to bo noted that these three States arc all claimants for special Commonwealth assistance. The effect on State revenue from these combined causes is obvious though not easily measurable . . . We will only saythat the discriminating effect on the revenue of different States appears to be substantial on account of the causes considered both in this paragraph and the preceding one. It is natural that the harmful effects of the tariff should express themselves most acutely as difficulties of State finance. The effects are not felt directly by land owners nor in the check to production. Land generally does not decline in value, nor does it go out of production. 
They were wrong there, because a good deal of land has gone out of production in Western Australia. I admit that drought and bad seasons generally have been a contributing cause, but I do not think that any other factor has had so great a part in putting that land out of production as has the tariff, which, statistics show, has more than doubled the cost of bringing the average wheat farm into production, compared with the period prior to the adoption of a high protective policy. The report from which I have quoted continued. - 
It merely fails to respond adequately to development expenditure, and in so far as State assistance succeeds in cancelling the tariff costs borne by farmers, it does so at State expense. 
Of the truth of that statement the huge losses of the Agricultural Bank and Group Settlement Scheme of Western Australia provide evidence - 
The State taxpayers are called upon to meet deficits on railways (the capital and working expense of which are inflated because of the tariff), because tariff costs do not allow of freights, being raised. The State finances, therefore, bear a substantial share of the tariff costa. 
The States which enjoy more than their proportional share of the benefits of protected industries may be able to afford this result. Their taxable capacity is increased through the protected industries established iti their territories. 
That is the fortunate position of Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland, hut in the other States the results are exactly the opposite. The report stated - 
Their taxable capacity is lowered, so that their rates of taxation have to be increased ; industry is further encouraged to concentrate in the more fortunate States, and the cumulative effects which follow intensify the inequalities created by the tariff itself. 
I wonder whether the members of the Commonwealth Grants Commission have read that report?. If so, I should like to know how they reconcile the views of those five distinguished Australian economists, who were specially selected for the task, with their own recommendations, and particularly with the statement that the smaller States do not suffer from the tariff. Few students of economics will agree with the conclusions of the Commonwealth Grants Commission with regard to the effect of the tariff on the smaller States. 
Other things being equal the claimant States possess exactly the same measure of protection that the Eastern States en joy ; and there are no barriers to the establishment of manufactures in Western Australia and South Australia. But other things are not equal, particularly natural resources and a wide range of conditions attractive to manufacturing enterprises. To admit the argument would be equivalent to admitting the validity of a plea for special treatment owing to the unequal distribution of natural resources among the States. 
The commission does not say anything of the unequal distribution of population, or of the advanced state of development of the eastern States, or of the benefit of the big home-market provided by the big eastern cities where so many people are employed in manufacturing goods for the use of residents in the outback parts of the' Commonwealth. At least 40,000 wage-earners are employed in the eastern States, making goods for the Western Australian market, but we hope to alter this by the establishment ' of our own factories. I propose to call as a witness the Labour Premier of Western Australia. I thought that the Labour party was pledged to high tariffs, but, in a statement which appeared in the  Wed Australian  of the 25th August,  Mr.  Wilcock,  the Premier of that State, when replying to the statement of the Common-* wealth Grants Commission regarding Western Australia's position under the tariff, said - 
This is rather an extraordinary statement as it suggests that, but for the unkindness of Providence in denying to Western Australia as lavish a share of natural resources as  has  been bestowed on the Eastern States, we would enjoy the same benefits from the federal policy of protection as does, say, Victoria. 
If the commission is right, it could bc claimed that, other things being equal, Australia possesses exactly the same opportunities for secondary industry production as are enjoyed by the older countries of Europe. But manufacturers in Melbourne would not be impressed by such a statement and they would still clamour for high protective duties against oversea manufacturers.  
Our position in relation to the Eastern Status is exactly comparable with that of the Eastern States in relation to oversea manufacturers. Experience has shown that if secondary industries in Western Australia are to have any chance to become established, protection against the Eastern States is essential during the initial years. While a policy of interstate free-trade exists we are forced to purchase our requirements in the highly - protected markets of Victoria and New South Wales, while we sell most of our products in the open market of the world. This policy throws a heavy additional cost on the shoulders of our people and makes Western Australia a valuable market to the Eastern States. 
The fact that the tariff places a burden on Western Australia for which compensation should be paid has been recognized by the Commonwealth ever since the inception of federation. It is therefore disturbing to find that this disability docs not impress itself upon the Grants Commission. Even if we accepted the commission's method of measuring the grants according to the relative needs of the claimant States, it would appear to be no more than justice to expect the commission to allow us to function at a somewhat higher cost for social services, and at a lower severity of taxation than the States which enjoy at our expense such substantial benefits from federal policy. 
That is the view of the Labour Premier of Western Australia as to the baleful effect of the tariff on his State. It has been pointed out that the severity of taxation in Western Australia is above the average for the whole of Australia. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  knows something of the excessive emergency taxes which have been imposed  there. Western Australia has a heavy income tax, in addition to State land tax, hospital and vermin taxes. The rich State of New South Wales is entirely free from any State land tax. In all the circumstances, a reduction of the grant to "Western Australia from £800,000 to £439,000 this year is entirely unwarranted. I urge the Commonwealth to make the amounts of £44,000 and £136,000 available to Western Australia as grants and not as advances. 
I take this opportunity to congratulate the Government on the appointment of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Having listened to the speeches of Senators Leckie and E. B. Johnston, it is obvious that we should get nearer to the true position by adopting the report of the commission than by following either of those two honorable senators. Some of the States will never be satisfied. I agree- with  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that the present Government has done more for the smaller States than any previous government has done. Having considered tho facts, the Commonwealth Grants Commission has made its recommendation. I regret the attacks which have * been made on that body, because it is generally recognized by those who have taken an interest in the difficult problem of the relations of the Commonwealth and the States, that the commission has done exceptionally good work. 
That is a onesided view which should not be expressed in this National Parliament. South Australia appointed its Under- Treasurer and its Auditor-General - men of outstanding ability - to prepare its case for submission ro tho commission. In view of what has been said during this debate, I propose to read to the Senate what they said following the publication of the commission's second report - 
Although we have, made certain comments on some aspects of the' commission's report, we desire to place on record our appreciation of the very valuable work done by the commission. The commission's reports cover a very wide field, and include such important matters as government finance, taxation, tariff, exchange, and the principal economic factors which affect national life, and, in our opinion, the reports make a most valuable contribution to the elucidation of some very difficult and baffling problems. 
In fairness to the commission, that expression of opinion should be placed on record in this Parliament. The South Australian committee in its comments on the third report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission stated in paragraph 46- " 
The third report of the commission adheres largely to the principles and ideas set out in the second report. It may be said at the outset that the commission's third report is a very line production and is well worthy of close study by any person interested in the problems dealt  with  in tho report.- 
All ! can say is that I sincerely trust that the members of the Inter-State Commission will be as well qualified as members of the Commonwealth Grants Commission have been to study and pass judgment on this very baffling problem. I congratulate the Government upon what it has done, and I suggest that the constructive suggestions contained in the commission's report are worthy of the most earnest consideration. 
It is obvious from the drift of population from South Australia and the decline that is taking place in Tasmania, that the position in both States is becoming increasingly serious. I agree with  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that it is the duty of this Parliament to assist in promoting development of that important area in Western Australia which, at present, is- unoccupied, but action is limited by our financial means. As regards the establishment, in the furtherance of defence, of secondary industries in the smaller States, we arc not suggesting that the Federal Government should adopt a policy of nationalization ; we consider that the success of secondary industries in those States must depend largely upon the business ability of those who embark their capital in such enterprises. I appreciate the interest shown by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  in the position of the smaller States, and also what this Government has done for the development of aerial mail services and in other directions, and I consider that it is the duty of the representatives of all the States to see that available Commonwealth money i3 distributed on a basis equitable to the weaker States. I congratulate the Government upon what has been accomplished during its term of office, and I believe that the findings of the commission are nearer to the truth than some of the speeches which we have heard to-day. 
 I should not have taken part in this debate but for the remarks of  Senator Leckie,  who seized on that portion of the commission's report which declared that grants should be distributed not on the basis of disabilities suffered under federation, but on needs. I am, however, inclined to believe, that he disagreed with the ultimate finding of the commission that South Australia required £1,200,000. 
The commission made a thorough investigation, and did its duty conscientiously. It approached the consideration of the problems involved with an unbiased mind, and  admitted the difficulty of making a distinction between disabilities and needs. The South Australian Disabilities Committee which considered the second and third reports of the commission consisted of gentlemen of equal ability, and therefore its opinion is entitled to equal respect. The history of the federation has shown that the smaller States have suffered definite disabilities which demand consideration from the stronger States. This contingency was foreseen by the framers of the Constitution, and led to the insertion of what was known as the " Braddon Blot " which, for the first ten years, safeguarded the interests of the smaller States by ensuring the return to them of a portion of the revenue received from customs and excise. At the end of that period other provision was made, and in more recent years the Commonwealth Grants Commission has been entrusted with the difficult task of determining what amount of financial assistance is properly payable to the smaller States for disabilities which they have suffered under federation. "We who are familiar with the development of the mallee farming districts in South Australia and Western Australia know the handicap under which settlers labour owing to the increased costs of farm machinery due to the tariff policy of the Commonwealth. I am, however, sure that the great majority of the people appreciate the work which this Government has done to place all the States on something like an even footing. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [9.25]. -  in reply  - I invite the attention of honorable senators to the fact that the third report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission consisted of 147 pages of close reading, and 5Q pages of appendices, and also that the. fourth report contains 101 pages of close reading and about 40 or 50 pages of appendices. This being so, I suggest to  Senator Johnston  and other honorable senators who have criticized the Government, that it is not responsible for all the arguments and conclusions contained in the commission's reports. The Government does, however, accept responsibility for the amount of the grant recommended.  Senator Johnston^  said that the commission refused to recognize that the tariff had placed a burden on Western Australia. An examination of the report will show that the commission inquired fully into the matter. In its third report, its comments on the effect of the tariff policy run to nine pages ; its f fourth report contains six pages of reasoning with regard to the hurden of the tariff. The commission admits that the tariff is a burden. On page 67 of the third report, it stated in paragraph 141 - 
There is, however, one point of importance which has become increasingly clear. Whatever the burden of the tariff may be, it is much greater on Western Australia than on any other State. The subsidies to protected production per head, whatever their absolute amount or value, must be 30 per cent, greater for Tasmania than for Western Australia, and 60 per cent, greater for South Australia. If unsheltered industry bears a great part of excess costs, then Western Australia again must be most adversely affected, for unsheltered production in 1932-33 was £41 per head in Western Australia, -against £24 in South Australia, and £.18 in Tasmania. On both counts the adverse effects on Western Australia must be very much greater than on any other State. 
In the light of that statement, how can  Senator Johnston  say that the commission refused to recognize that the tariff  was a.burden on Western Australia ? The commission did, however, say that other advantages are a set-off against the burden of the tariff. After an examination of tariff costs, the commission stated, on page 68 - 
We are taking these tariff costs tentatively as measuring substantially the net adverse effects of Commonwealth policy so far as tho States themselves are able to estimate them. Against them must be set the benefits from the allocation of Commonwealth revenue and expenditure, omitting special grants. 
It appears then, without reckoning any benefit from exchange, benefits and burdens from federation almost balance for South Australia and Western Australia, while for Tasmania there is a net benefit of nearly £1 per head. It follows that no substantial part of the special grant received was made necessary by the effects of federation. We mayconclude that these States  unfederated  would lui ve been at least in the same financial difficulties as at present. 
That policy was adopted by the commission in framing its third report, and a similar attitude is taken up by the present commission on pages 10, 11, 12, 49 and 50 of the fourth report. It is unfair to suggest that the commission did not take into consideration the effect of the tariff upon Western Australia; it has stated that the tariff is a burden which presses with greater severity on Western Australia than on any other State. 

 Senator Johnston, who raised the question of advances, should realize that the Government is merely asking Parliament to authorize the payment of the grants to the States set out in the bill. The grant of £575,000 to Western Australia is not less than the grant of last year, as stated by  Senator johnston,  but actually £75,000 more. It is true that, in assessing the amount, the commission has treated £136,000 as an advance, but that does not affect the amount of the grant  Senator Marwick  should understand that the Treasurer of Western Australia will receive from the Commonwealth £575,000, and if the Western Australian 
Government elects to use £136,000. of that amount in the direction suggested by  Senator Marwick,  there is nothing to prevent it from doing so. There is no need for the Commonwealth to earmark the £136,000 for any specific purpose. 
I remind honorable senators that the present commission is not the same commission that compiled the third report. It is true that it accepted some of the bases laid down by the previous commission and extended them in some directions. I remind  Senator Johnston,  who grudgingly admitted that the present commission has introduced the area factor, which is an advantage to Western Australia, that had that factor not been taken into consideration, the grant would have been less. That is ohe direction in which the commission has advanced. It has recognized a disability which was not recognized previously. A subsequent commission may take up the work of this investigating authority, and form its own opinion on future grants upon the evidence submitted from time to time. It will not be bound by the conclusions of previous commissions, but it will be foolish if it is not guided by them. Any one reading the third report must admit that it is one of the most valuable documents on Australian finance that has been produced in the history of federation. I have read many similar, reports, and have no hesitation in saying that the information it discloses on the subject is of greater value than any previously submitted to this Parliament. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The fourth report also is a very valuable document. Future governments or commissions will not be bound by the reasons or arguments contained in those reports, but future commissions would be foolish not to take advantage of all the information gathered in the course of these investigations. In justice to the commission, I should like to say that I do not think that any of its members has an axe to grind. All three are conscientious men, definitely striving to do justice to the parties concerned. No one can say that the claimant States did not have full opportunity to present their cases to the best advantage. The men who prepared the cases for the claimant States were competent officials. South Australia had the assistance of the UnderTreasurer, the Auditor-General and  Mr. Pickering,  all of whom are competent to place the position of that State fairly before the commission. The representatives of the States collected a mass of evidence and also appeared before the commission, and it will be seen that there must have been a full investigation of the position of all claimant States. The Government is merely asking Parliament to pass judgment, not upon the reasoning and conclusions of the commission, but upon the amount of the grants tobe paid. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
[9.42]. - I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is the usual measure submitted to Parliament for the purpose of appropriating from Consolidated Revenue Fund an amount to be paid into a trust fund to meet expenditure for war pensions at the rates already determined by Parliament. The annual rate of expenditure on war pensions is approximately £8,000,000. The total amount appropriated by Parliament to date for this purpose is £144,000,000, and the expenditure to the end of August, 1937, will be approximately £142,000,000. At the present rate of expenditure, the balance of approximately £2,000,000 will soon be exhausted. It, therefore, becomes necessary to appropriate a further amount to maintain the regular payments to war pensioners. 
I do not intend to oppose the passage of this bill, which provides for the appropriation of revenue for the purpose of war pensions; but I take this opportunity to bring under the notice of the Government the case of a blind soldier. 
I realize that, but perhaps I may have an opportunity to state briefly the facts of the case. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  - The honorable senator must connect his remarks with the subjectmatter of the bill. 
I intend to do so by showing that some of the money appropriated for war pensions should be paid to Charles Edward Kruger who is now blind. He saw service at Gallipoli, and while on the Peninsula he complained of eye trouble which caused him severe suffering. After his return to Australia he made further complaints. On his discharge from the Australian Imperial Forces he was granted a full pension for abdominal trouble, but that pension was later reduced and finally cancelled. Four years later he had to be admitted to Rosemount Repatriation Hospital, and consideration was first given then to his eye condition. He was referred to  Dr. Lockhardt  Gibson, the repatriation eye specialist in Brisbane, who reported that the eye condition did not indicate syphilis. The case was considered by the commission and a pension was refused. This unfortunate man battled on without assistance for several years, and on making a further appeal for a pension he was eventually sent again to  Dr. Lockhardt  Gibson for examination and report.  Dr. Gibson  attributed the loss of his right eye to the effect of sand and gravel blown into the eyes by an exploding shell; he attributed the loss of the right eye to war service. In 1924  Mr. Kruger  was given a pension for the loss of the right eye. In 1928 he reported that the sight of his left eye was affected, and he was again sent before  Dr. Gibson,  who said that although the loss of sight in the right eye was due to war service, the defective vision in the left eye was due to age. In 1932 he again appealed, and, after examination,  Dr. Gibson  reported that in spite of no acknowledgement of syphilis and negative Wassermann tests, the condition of the left eye was almost certainly due to syphilis. The position then was that, while the commission accepted the loss of the 'sight of the right eye as attributable to war service, and -paid a pension accordingly, the partial blindness of the left eye was regarded as due to syphilis and therefor not pensionable. Some months later the left eye became almost blind and  Mr. Kruger  again appealed to the Repatriation Commission. The commission referred the case to  Sir James  Barrett, who said that it could not be admitted that the condition of the left eye was attributable to war service, and, without further ado the commission not only rejected the claim in respect of the left eye, but also cancelled the pension payable for the loss of sight in the right eye. 
In 1925,  Sir Neville  Howse, then' Minister for Repatriation, replying to a question asked by  Mr. Cameron,  now  Sir Donald  Cameron, in regard to war pensions paid to one-eyed returned soldiers, said - 
More recently provision has been mode to increase this rate  of  pension if the sight of' the other eye should become defective, and with regard to the degree that it has done t&gt;o. This means that if there should lie complete loss of Bight in the other eye at any time from any cause whatever, the ex-soldier will be granted a pension at the highest rate of £8 per fortnight. 
In view of that statement, unless the policy of the Government in this respect has been altered since, a pension  should have been granted to  Mr. Kruger  for the loss of sight in the remaining eye. Subsequently,  Mr. Kruger  made an appeal to the War Pensions Entitlement Tribunal but it was disallowed on the ground that his condition was attributable to syphilis. That tribunal, which is composed of laymen, asked that a provocative Wassermann test be given, but on medical advice, and also on the ground that he had never had venereal disease in his life,  Mr. Kruger  refused to have the test applied. ' I doubt the moral or legal right of the Entitlement Tribunal to suggest, such a drastic course, because it appears that there must have been a doubt as to the origin of tho trouble, and  Mr. Kruger  should have been given the benefit of the doubt as provided by the Repatriation Act. With a view to having his case reopened  Mr. Kruger  was medically ex amined by  Dr. Wallis  Hoare, one of Brisbane's leading eye specialists, who reported as follows: -  night eye blind. Left eye blind. As to the incidence of the optic atrophy the right eye appears to have been affected in 1 1)10, the left eye some years later. While, of course, this fact does not exclude'  syphilis,  it certainly excludes injuries to the skull as a cause. The fact of a Wassermann teat proving negative docs not preclude the fact that a person may have had syphilis. Consequently,  while  there is nothing to prove that the optic atrophy is not of syphilitic origin, there is equally nothing to prove that it is. There does nut appear to be Anything definite in the case .to warrant one saying this or that is the attributable, cause and one is forced to the conclusion that, like many other cases of primary optic atrophy, the origin is obscure and no attributable  cause  can be definitely assigned. 
This report apparently did not carry much weight with the Entitlement Tribunal as  Mr. Kruger  was again refused a pension. This unfortunate man enlisted in the early part of the war, and he says he was then, a healthy, fit bushman, and had lived a clean moral life. There was no question of inherited disease, and he is firmly convinced that the war was responsible for his blindness. He is a respected member of the Partially Blinded Soldiers and Sailors' Association of Australia, and is a married man with a wife and five young children. I appeal to the Minister to inquire into this case and to see that justice is done to this unfortunate man. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [9.50].  -  The honorable senator of course realizes that I have no knowledge of the particular case which he has mentioned. There are two tribunals dealing with claims for pensions by returned soldiers, the Entitlement Tribunal and the Appeal Tribunal, both of which are composed of returned soldiers. The man to whom the honorable senator referred has the right of appeal to both the tribunals, and it can only be assumed that his appeal has not been upheld. However, I shall bring tho honorable senator's remarks under the notice of the Minister for Repatriation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
I ask the Postmaster-General - (1) Who arranges the rate of the salaries paid to officials in allowance post offices; (2) what is the basis on which such salaries are calculated; (3) are all salaries in allowance post offices throughout the Commonwealth arranged on the same basis; (4) in view of the increased cost of living and the consequent recent addition to the basic wage, will the PostmasterGeneral give favorable consideration to the giving of similar increases to these officials? 
The remuneration of officials in allowance post offices is fixed by a committee of officers in the central administration of the Postmaster-General's Department. A figure higher than the basic wage, whatever it may be, asfixed by the court, is takenas the datum line, and the officers assess the time that is required for each item of work that has to he done by allowance officers. Departmental records in connexion with this matter, extending over a period of years, are taken as a guide. Salaries of allowance post officers are arranged on the same basis throughout the Commonwealth.I shall have an inquiry made as to the effect on allowance post officers, of the recent addition to the basic wage, and advise the honorable senator whether any alterations are necessary. 
Due to rough weather encountered by the steamship  Wollongbar,  the Tasmanian mail service to the mainland has been temporarily dislocated. On behalf of  Senator Sampson  I ask the PostmasterGeneral what steps are being taken to forward mails which were left behind in Tasmania? 
I am advised that, owing to inclement weather, the  Wollongbar  was unable to make contact with Burnie on its last voyage. The mails, which should have been carried by the vessel, are being despatched to Launceston and will be brought by air to Melbourne. If there are any mails for overseas destinations they will be despatched by air to Fremantle. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
In the Estimates of Expenditure on Public Works for the year 1937-38, has provision been made for a commencement of the construction of new post offices urgently required at Inglewood and South Perth, important and rapidly growing suburbs of Perth? 
Provision has been included for building purposes at South Perth, but not for Inglewood, as it is considered that the circumstances do not yet justify the erection of a new building in that locality. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What is the number of voters eligible to vote for the Dairy Produce Export Control Board in each State? 
How many of these are aliens or minors in each State? 
What is the number of voters eligible to vote for the Dried Fruits Control Board in each State? 
How many of these are aliens or minors in each State? 
Have Italians a preferential right to hold freehold or leasehold titles over other foreigners before naturalization? 
If so, under what act ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer :  - 
The information is being obtained and will be furnished to the honorable senator later. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the duty on French brandy has been reduced from 41s. to 36s. a gallon, and that primage duty of 10 per cent. on French brandy has also been waived? 
What duty and what primage are charged on spirits imported from Great Britain? 
In view of the Ottawa Agreement, why have notsimilar reductions to those reported to have been made on French brandy been extended to spirits imported from Great Britain ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
The customs and primage duties on spirits of United Kingdom origin are as follows: - 

<graphic href="154332193709024_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

The terms of the Ottawa Agreement do not preclude the Commonwealth from reducing duty on one commodity without extending the reductions to all other commodities in the same broad class. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will he inform the Senate of the state of the negotiations between the Federal. Government and the Hobart City Council in regard to the removal of the Sandy Bay Rifle Range in Hobart to  a  more suitable position? 
Some five years ago, in deference to the wishes of the Hobart City Council and other interested parties, the Defence Department agreed to transfer the small arms range from Sandy Bay to Glenorchy. The terms and conditions of transfer, concerning which the honorable senator was advised some time ago, were accepted by the council during 1935. These were reduced to a formal deed of agreement between the two parties, the draft of which, with minor exceptions, the council recently accepted. These minor aspects of the agreement are now being discussed and the deed should be completed by the parties at an early date. 
asked the Post master-General,upon  notice - 
Is it a fact that broadcasttalks concerning the great programme prepared for Australia's 150th anniversary celebration next year will not be permitted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission through the medium of members of the Celebrations Council who are members of Parliament? 
If so, is it  a  fact that such action on the part  of  the Australian Broadcasting Commission has aroused the indignation of the executive of the Celebrations Council?  if it is a fact that such a ban would exclude many men who have been long associated in an honorary capacity with the Anniversary Celebrations Committee, who are prominent in the business and political life of the State of New South Wales, and that such exclusion would have a very serious effect on the publicity activities connected with the forthcoming celebrations, will the Minister ask the Australian Broadcasting Commission to review its decision and so prevent the disorganization that will probably follow it? 
The honorable senator will be furnished with a reply to his inquiries as early as possible. 
It was with some hope that I listened to the opening words of the Leader of the the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  in his speech on this important subject. 
Evidently I was. The honorable gentleman pleaded for calmness in debate, and stated that the subject was of such importance that it should be discussed in a nonparty spirit, but he failed to touch the vital underlying principle that emerges from a consideration of the deliberations of the conference. 
Although the Imperial Conference was the most momentous effort that has been made in the interests of world peace since the Covenant of the League of Nations was signed, the Leader of the Opposition looks through party spectacles at the report of its proceedings. The underlying principle which emerges from  the  conference is that there should be  cooperation  between the Mother Country and the various dominions in an effort  to  secure the peace of the world - a peace which,  I  venture to say, would not  have  been disturbed so often had  not the  Motherland been insufficiently armed. 
I  listened attentively to the whole  of the  honorable gentleman's speech, but not  one  sentence in it envisaged co-operation  by  this or any other dominion with  the  Mother Country.From beginning  to  end, he merely enunciated a policy which spells isolation rather than co-operation. 
I ask  honorable senators who desire to take  a  wider view ofthis subject to bear with me while  I  examine in a detailed fashion what has been done.We are accused  of  doing something for ourselves, but,  far  from acting selfishly, we are acting  in the  interests of the whole of civilization.  If  anything untoward should happen  to  what we know as theBritish Commonwealth of Nations, God help the world. Mankind has endeavoured to secure the peace of the world in a variety of ways through the instrumentality of the League of Nations - an instrumentality that has not had from  the  Opposition that support which it, deserves, notwithstanding that the Opposition professes to believe in the principles upon which the League was founded. The League, however, has not been able to secure the peace at which it has aimed. 
I  regard the action now being taken  as of  pre-eminent importance to not only the British Commonwealth of Nations, but also civilization itself. What more momentous obligations could this commonwealth of nations have taken upon itself than to arm  in  the interests of peace? The dominant note in the policy  of the  British Commonwealth  of  Nations  is that  there shall be peace instead  of that savagery which for some time has ravished Europe and is now to be seen in a country not far from our northern shores. What is the spectacle confronting humanity to-day? We in Australia view these things from a distance; but I emphasize that that very isolation which in the past has been our security is to-day our danger. We have only to think of what would happen if New Zealand, with its 1,250,000 inhabitants and its tremendous coastline, were conquered by a foreign power, and there appeared almost at our door a foreign power, probably hostile to us. 
In view of the state of the world to-day, there is no necessity to name any power. The only hope that we have lies in a strong British Commonwealth of Nations working together for the good of humanity as in the past. There is no greater civilizing force in the world to-day, and no greater influence for peace, than the British Empire. The Imperial Conference endeavoured to secure co-operation between the component parts of the Empire in the interests of world peace. As I have said, no more momentous event has occurred since the Covenant of the League of Nations was signed. The Imperial Conference of 1937 will go down through history as an important world happening; yet it is being discussed in some quarters in a partisan spirit. Does it not appear that those who do so are overlooking the responsibility that they owe to civilization as well as to the people of this country? Are we so recreant to the trust reposed in every true citizen of the world that we pass by lightly a responsibility that we should accept in the interests of world peace? Either the Leader of the Opposition fails torealize what the resolutions of the conference meant or he is deliberately ignoring their implications. There are two reasons for the present disturbed state of the world. We see one nation endeavouring to impose its will as to economic conditions on another, and we see others striving for territorial expansion. It may be that, in some instances, expansion is necessary ; but, if we are to live up to the ideals of civilized people, such expansion cannot any longer be won at the point of the sword.  . In  various countries there is contention among the people themselves in regard to certain ideologies. We see contending factions striving for supremacy at the point of the sword. We who believe in democracy, with its spirit of freedom and fair play, tell the world that we intend to defend those things which we hold dear, and will do our utmost to establish a reign of peace throughout the world. 
Whether grey-headed or black-headed, we owe a duty to mankind. We are passing units who hold the peace of the world in trust for posterity. Surely it is our duty to leave the world better than we found it - with a spirit of peace prevailing among its peoples, even if it has to be maintained by force. 
Having endeavoured to. impress upon the not very susceptible mind of the Leader of the Opposition the importance of the attitude which the Government has adopted in this matter, I come now to an examination of the defence policy of the Labour party as expounded by the honorable senator. 
There is nothing to identify it with the policy of the Government. It is the most anaemic, pointless, and vague declaration I have ever heard, and I believe that the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues, in their innermost hearts, sympathize with the policy of the Mother Country; but that they are afraid to declare their allegiance to what they know to be right. The Leader of the Opposition gave us, in abstract terms, some idea of the policy for which his party stands. 
I shall read it again in order that we may under-  stand its vagueness, and see the sinister things behind it, because I venture to say it is not the policy of the true Britisher or the true Australian, but the policy of a non-co-operator. The salient points of the Labour party's defence policy are - 
Adequate home defence; amendment of Defence Act; constructive declaration of where we stand- 
No, I am quoting from what the Leader of the Opposition said. 
Aerial defence; air ports; fuel; oil research ; and erection of bomb-proof shelters. 
The only constructive contribution in the policy for which the Labour party stands is the provision of bomb-proof shelters; otherwise there is nothing real, nothing substantive, in it; it is purely a political policy formulated to keep tied to their apron strings what honorable senators opposite are now pleased to call the left wing of their party. It has been couched in those terms, not because of a realization of their duty to the country, but on the ground of political expediency alone. The Leader of the Opposition will see that h is party is already suspect by the people of Australia, and will remain suspect until the Labour party has seen fit to readjust its policy. The defence of Australia should not be regarded as a party matter. I have declared myself in and out of season as an adherent of peace, but when I see the craven attitude that has been adopted by the Labour party in relation to this important subject, I can only come to the, conclusion that the real reason for the announcement of this anaemic policy is a fear of offending those who are the real enemies of the Empire and of peace. The Leader of the Opposition has contented himself with mouthing sentences to tickle the ears of the groundlings, but with regard to the wider and deeper considerations which at a time like this should animate the action of every public man, he said nothing. While honorable senators opposite know the dangers of the situation in the world to-day, and what is happening at Shanghai, they are content to say that they will do all that is necessary for the " adequate" defence of Australia. What is there practical or sound in that? What is adequate defence? Only a navy that is worth while, and can defend both our coastline and our trade routes, can provide adequate defence. If our trade routes are not protected we shall be speedily brought to our knees. The isolation of this country was at one time its shield and buckler; to-day its isolation from the friendly countries of the world, which would help us, has become  a  terrible menace. What does the Leader of the Opposition suggest with regard to the defence of the trade routes of this country ? What would be said of us if we deserted our sister dominion across the Tasman Sea in times of need? I challenge the Leader of the Opposition to state the attitude of his party in regard to assisting New Zealand if that dominion were attacked. 
Apparently the Labour party would send  a  flight of aeroplanes across the Tasman Sea. Would the provision of bomb-proof shelters in Australia be of any advantage in the defence of the coastline of New Zealand? 
The navy is the one arm of defence upon which this country and New Zealand can rely - not a detached navy, but one working in co-operation with the powerful navies of Great Britain and the sister dominions in the interests of peace and our own national safety. If Auckland and Wellington were bombed, would the honorable senator send the Australian navy across the Tasman Sea? I see in the defence policy of the Labour party nothing that would help the sister dominion. Honorable senators opposite have framed their defence policy in a spirit of isolation. If such a policy were accepted, Australia would stand by and see its trade routes severed, its oil supplies cut off, and necessaries from overseas unable to reach its ports, and it would not strike a single blow until the enemy was within its gates. Then with the country under invasion Labour would  attempt to defend it, but not by cooperation with the Mother Country and the other dominions; it proposes that 7,000,000 people, including less than 2,000,000 fighting men, should alone defend this vast continent against an invasion, which may be made by one nation, or perhaps two, acting in combination. The futility and danger of this policy should appeal to the. Leader of the Opposition, because it is against Empire co-operation. It is a policy of isolation, to placate a certain section of the followers of the Opposition. It is not a policy that will be accepted by the people as contributing to the national safety. There is no escape from the fact that alone we perish. We have seen the slogan on Labour banners, "United we stand, divided we fall," but the Opposition will be repudiating that creed if it does not stand for the unity of the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
If certain forces in the world to-day obtained power, they would make us trail our coats in front of them. There would then be an end to this easy life which we lead in this free country. We should have to buckle to and do their bidding. 
The Leader of the Opposition would suggest that the Government, by its defence policy, is adopting a provocative attitude. It is doing nothing of the kind. That our policy is based on the principle of endeavouring to obtain world peace was shown throughout the speech delivered by the Prime Minister and read to us by the Leader of the Senate  (Sir George Pearce).  The second phase of our defence policy is that, in the event of attack, we should co-operate -with the Mother Country and the other dominions as a unit of the British Commonwealth of Nations, and not as if we were a detached unit. The policy of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin)  is futile, and would not be accepted by the people. It is dictated by motives of political expediency and there is nothing helpful or protective in it. 

 Senator A. J. McLACHLAN.Because I would desire that a man of the attainments of the Leader of the Opposition, and with a voice so ringing and convincing at times, should proceed along right lines in the interests of Australia, and of peace and civilization. We must arm or go under to certain forces which are at work in the world to-day. World peace cannot be maintained in any other way than by the effective arming of the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
The whole policy enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition is nebulous. " The adequate defence of Australia ! " A child in the street could say that. But there is something practical, constructive, and real, and something that goes to the hearts of the people, in co-operating with our kith and kin across the seas. There is something in that which makes us feel that living is worth while. It would be better for some of the unfortunate wretches in Europe and in Shanghai to-day were they beachcombers on one of the islands of the Pacific, for there they would at least have peace. In Australia we boast of our civilization. It would be an excellent thing if one could obtain the true opinion of Labour rather than this placard which is being put out, not because it expresses the real sentiment of true Labour men, but because their political leaders desire to win the votes of the left wing - the Communists who are their allies. 
I had intended to do that until I was goaded into making my last remarks. I appeal to the better nature of my friends opposite. The momentous subject of defence should be discussed on the highest possible plane. It should not be a political plaything, as the Leader of the Opposition has used it. Our very existence as a race may depend on the efficacy of the plan evolved in London. The old Mother Country has subscribed with blood and treasure to the principle of world peace, and it is to maintain that principle that it desires its dominions to participate in the Empire scheme of defence. That is the only con-  clusion one can draw from the statement read by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce). 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Allan  MacDonald) adjourned. 
Lastweek I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs the following question - 
Has the Government received any guarantee from Amalgamated Wireless Limited and Philips Lamps Limited of Australia that they will supply radio valves to independent radio manufacturers at a price no higher than they could land equivalent types of imported valves into their stores duty paid, and also if the above two firms have guaranteed to have available a continuous and adequate supply of all necessary valves to fill independent radio manufacturers' requirements? 
To that question I received this reply:- . 
Wireless valves of Australian manufacture are distributed to radio receiving set manufacturers at a lower price than similar types of overseas manufacture. The increased production brought about in Australia by the partial prohibition of imported valves has made it possible for prices of Australian-made valves to be reduced. Inconnexion with supplies of wireless valves, the Government is in close touch with local manufacturing developments. 
The Government is aware that the Australian wireless valve manufacturers are making valves available to users and purchasers in accordance with usual trade practice. There is no foundation for the belief that these manufacturers contemplate any departure from these trade practices. There has been no difficulty in the past in obtaining supplies of the types of wireless valves which are manufactured in Australia. 
Since asking that question I have received letters from two radio manufacturers in Melbourne which do not sub stantiate the particulars contained in the reply furnished to me. One of the letters states - 
The facts are that we are forced to pay 22½ per cent. more for local valves of obsolete types than we would have to pay for them if we landed them from America, even after paying exchange, duty, primage, &amp;c. 
I have received another letter  to  the effect that the information given is inaccurate, and that unnecessarily high prices are being charged. If we are to give Australian manufacturers the sole right to make and distribute radio valves, we should have some guarantee that they will not exploit the manufacturers of wireless sets and the public because the price of valves has an important bearing on the cost of a complete wireless set. I understand that these firms have been in constant communication with the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White).  I do not know whether that department is understaffed, but although one firm wrote on the 12th July, giving certain particulars required by the Customs Department, no reply has yet been received. Further communications were sent on the 11th and the 25th August, to which no reply has yet been received. Meanwhile, permission has not been granted to obtain valves of other types. Having had considerable experience of radio work, I have a good deal of sympathy with manufacturers, because I have been held up for weeks owing to my inability to obtain valves I required. There is a good deal of truth in the manufacturers' complaints, and I shall hand the correspondence to the Minister in the hope that I shall receive a satisfactory reply. The Minister for Trade and Customs and his officers, are exercising far too much power. I trust that the matter will be given immediate attention, and that I shall be furnished with a reply at an early date. 
I direct the attention of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to the delay which has occurred in delivering the eight new powerful locomotives for use on the transcontinental railway. At the opening of the extension of the standardgauge from Port Augusta to Port Pirie, which, was attended by the Leader of the Senate, the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan),  and the Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan),  we were promised that these engines, the delivery of which was delayed owing to the shortage of steel, would be placed in commission as soon as possible. I trust that the right honorable gentleman will inquire whether there is any possibility of the construction of these, engines being expedited. Until they are in use, those using the line, particularly the people of Western Australia who do business by rail with the eastern States, cannot derive any advantage from the new section as the time taken on the journey from Perth to Adelaide cannot be reduced by 24 hours as was promised. 
 Senator Marwick  suggested that there is a complete prohibition against the importation of radio valves into Australia. There .is a partial prohibition against the importation of American valves, but British and Dutch valves can be imported without any restriction. In these circumstances, the local market is not protected by a complete prohibition, which would allow Australian companies to charge whatever prices they chose to  fix. 
.- I  have received a letter from a progress association in southern Tasmania, directing attention to the wonderful advantage the Commonwealth would derive if North-West Bay, south of Hobart, were developed as a naval base. I understand that this bay, which is used by vessels of the Australian fleet when engaged in gun practice, has advantages rarely to be found on any part of the Australian coastline. I shall hand the correspondence to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, and I trust that, during the debate on the Estimates and budget-papers next week, he will make a statement on the subject. 
.- In answer to a question to-day, concerning the Sandy Bay rifle range, the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  said - 
The terms and conditions of transfer concerning which the honorable senator was advised some time ago wert accepted hy the  council  during 1935. 
This is September, 1937, and I have been receiving similar replies regarding "terms and conditions" for the last two years. Surely it is possible for the Defence Department to come to a definite arrangement with the Hobart City Council, particularly as negotiations have been proceeding for fourteen years! 
Possibly it may be. I am not placing the whole responsibility on the Defence Department; but surely the two parties could come to some understanding in the matter ! I understand that the present range does not comply with the requirements of the Defence Department; certainly if the change could be made it would be a great benefit to the people of Hobart. 
[3.49].  -  I agree with  Senator  Grant that the negotiations in regard to the .Sandy Bay Rifle Range have dragged on unduly. When I was Minister for Defence the Defence Department submitted certain terms and conditions to the Hobart City Council, which was to provide a certain amount of money to cover the cost of the transfer. Land for a new range had been acquired at Glenorchy; but I believe that the council has had difficulty in financing its share of the work incidental to the proposed transfer. I shall, however, bring the remarks of the honorable senator under the notice of the Minister for Defence. 
I shall also bring before the Minister for Defence the request made by  Senator Payne  that the suitability of the North-West Bay for the purposes of a naval base be considered. Perhaps, in connexion with this matter, I may be permitted to relate a little story. Honorable senators will remember that a distinguished Admiral visited Australia very many years ago to report on Commonwealth naval defences, one phase of which was the establishment of naval bases. As might have been expected, many letters were sent to the department from all parts of Australia, urging the claims of various ports and harbours for conversion into naval bases, and the old Admiral, who was something of a humourist, said  to me,"I knew that Australia was a vastcountry with great potentialities; but I venture to say that it has more potential naval bases than any other country." It is, of course, true that we have a considerable number of potential naval bases. 

 Senator Six GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, so fat we have only one naval base. It is possible that North-West Bay has something to recommend it, and I shall see that  Senator Payne's  remarks are brought to the notice of the Minister for Defence. 
My colleague, the Postmaster-General, who represents in the Senate the Minister for Trade and Customs, has authorized me to reply to  Senator Marwick's  remarks about wireless valves, because I have some knowledge of the subject. The firms referred to wrote to me and I have to admit that they appeared to make out a pretty strong case. I sent the correspondence to the Minister for Trade and Customs and in due time I received from him what seemed to me to be a very convincing reply. 
I am coming to that point. The Minister's reply was sent to the firms in question and later I received another communication so lengthy that I think the firms must employ a large staff of typists. Idiscovered that their second letter was largely a repetition of the first and contained the complaint that the Minister for Trade and Customs had not replied to their communication. When I spoke to the Minister about this matter he said he had forwarded a reply, but the firms continued the correspondence in which they repeated the statements and charges ; he did not see why he should continue sending them the same reply, because he had nothing to add to what he had already said. That, no doubt, explains why later letters from the firms did not elicit a reply from my colleague. There may be something fresh in the representations made by  Senator Marwick  but I can assure him that there is no monopoly in respect of wireless valves.  Senator Millen  has answered that charge. 
However, the representations of  Senator Marwick  will be conveyed to the appropriate quarter. 
With regard to the representations made by  Senator Allan  MacDonald concerning locomotives for the transAustralian railway, it is a fact, as honorable senators are probably aware, that owing to the re-armament programme in Great Britain, the demand for steel is so great that it is difficult to secure the fulfilment of orders. However, I shall ascertain from the Minister for the Interior if anything can be done to expedite the completion of the order for locomotives, because I realize that existing arrangements interfere with the comfort of travellers on the trans- Australian railway. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Last week I promised  Senator Millen  that I would have inquiries made concerning the work and remuneration of the officials in charge of allowance post offices. I am advised that this matter is regulated by a committee of financial and other officers of the Postmasiter-General's Department, and that an inquiry is in progress which will cover the whole field of the remuneration paid to officers in charge of non-official post offices. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been directed to the following statement of Labour's defence policy, to be found on page 22 of the booklet published on behalf of the party by  Mr. Curtin,  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives :  - 
The Australian Labour party expresses its greatest abhorrence of war and fascism, and urges that the Commonwealth Government should endeavour to establish and maintain friendly relations with other nations. 
The right honorable gentleman will note the deletion of the word " communism ". Also I ask, has the attention of the Government been directed to leaflet No. 1, issued by the Communist party of Australia in connexion with the forthcoming federal elections, headed: " Why We Want a Labour Government " ? The leaflet advances its reasons why a Labour government should be returned, and states - 
The Communist party, to show its sincerity, has withdrawn all but one or two candidates, and will give full support to the endorsed Australian Labour party candidate. 
If the Leader of the Senate has read these publications, can he state whether there is any connexion between the two? 

 Senator 'Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I am not in a position to answer fully the first part of the honorable senator's question, because the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has not yet fulfilled his promise to supply honorable senators on this side with copies of the booklet issued by the leader of his party in the House of Representatives. 
The quotation from it made by  Senator Hardy  is correct. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.When I receive and read the publication in question I may be able to express an opinion. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate, and I may add that my question is not inspired, whether the Support which  Senator Hardy  alleges is to be given by the Communist party to the Australian Labour party candidates in the coming elections is part of an arrangement  under which the Communist party is being subsidized by the United Australia party and the United Country party to take this action -with a view to discrediting the Austraiian Labour party candidates? Also whether the Government's decision recently to withdraw the prosecutions of the Communist party was in order to' secure ite friendship and alliance with th'e Government parties? 
Is the PostmasterGeneral aware of any arrangements whereby passengers on steamships travelling between the United Kingdom and Australia have the privilege of sending radio lettergrams at a cost of something like 5s. for twenty words to either the United Kingdom or New Zealand, but not to Australia? Will the honorable senator inquire whether this concession can be extended to radio lettergrams sent to Australia ? 
I have already made inquiries and representations in regard to radio lettergrams despatched from steamers operating the service between Australia and New Zealand. The matter is having my personal attention at the present time. 
In view of the success of his department and its natural desire to encourage the use of telephones, I ask the Postmaster-General whether it is true that he proposes to reduce the rental of telephones? 
The honorable senator well knows that it is not customary to make statements of policy in answer to questions. 
Reported Treasure Hunt tomontlivet Islands. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been drawn to a newspaper report that the H.M.A.S.  Sydney  has gone on a treasure hunt to the Montlivet Islands at the request of the Western Australian Go vernment? Will the right honorable senator inform the Senate where these islands are situated? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Alas for another romance ! The Minister for Defence has already declared in the newspapers that that statement is incorrect. 
On the 26th August,  Senator Brown  asked me,  without notice,  whether  Sir DavidRivett,  while abroad last year, had made any inquiries into the production of fuel oil from vegetable matter. 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator that  Sir David  Rivett's inquiries in connexion with liquid fuels were restricted almost entirely to the production of oil from coal. He did, however, make some inquiries into the question of the production of power alcohol in Europe. He found that Germany and France were producing about 50,000,000 gallons of power alcohol per annum; that legislation operated in both these countries rendering compulsory the use of alcohol in fuel mixtures, but that the development of the industry is dictated by reasons of national self-sufficiency with a total disregard for economic considerations. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister' for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Will itbe possible for the Government to have an analysis made of the black coal deposit near Geraldton, in the State of Western Australia, to ascertain the petroleum content of suchcoal,if a sample is forwarded? 

 Senator , Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answer: - 
Any analysis of the composition of black coal at Geraldton should be carried out in the first instance by the Government Analyst of Western Australia. If Commonwealth cooperation is desired, sympathetic consideration will be given to any representations made by the Government of Western Australia inthis regard. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Has the Government come to any decision as to whether the overseas mails will come from Darwin to Perth on the existing route of the north-west aerial mail after the new flying boat service from England is initiated? 
Will the Government make a public announcement on the subject before Parliament adjourns? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
The arrangements to be adopted for the transportation within the Commonwealth of overseas mails upon the establishment of the Empire Air Mail Service are at present receiving the consideration of the Government. 
When the decision has been reached a full statement will be made. 
In the early part of the visit of the Prime Minister and other Ministers to London in order to attend the recent Imperial Conference a suggestion was made, unfortunately, that Australia might be committed in some haphazard way to a policy of Empire defence dictated by Great Britain. Our friends of the Labour Opposition went further than that, and, in press statements, hinted that there was something sinister in the whole conception of the Imperial Conference, and that the Australian representatives would have to be very careful of what they said and did in order not to commit the Commonwealth to a widespread Empire policy. Most regrettably that suggestion was broadcast throughout Australia, but no better declaration of thefreedom enjoyed by the dominions is to be found than that of the Prime Minister of New Zealand  (Mr. Savage)  - 
We have found no difficulties, and expect to findno difficulties, in conducting the affairs of our dominion with complete freedom and ability to carry out any policy we may decide upon. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Yes, and a good one. There is no hint of anything sinister in that. I suggest that the unfortunate impression created by members of the Opposition, was very illadvised and incorrect. 
I am attributing it to the members of the Labour party who have said in the press of Australia on numerous occasions, that there was something sinister in the last Imperial Conference. Whether or not they were alluding to the Spanish embroglio I do not know, but the suggestion was made, and the words of  Mr. Savage  completely refute it. As regards Australian representation at the conference, I feel that the words of the Prime Minister fully described our position in the scheme of Empire defence. He said at page 30 of the printed report - 
The dominions, however, have the great good fortune to be members of the British Commonwealth, the main source of whose military, financial and economic strength ia the United Kingdom, but to receive we must be prepared to give. ' Australia, therefore, subject to the sovereign control of its own policy, and without prior commitment, stands for co-operation in defence between the members of the British Commonwealth, and it has adopted the guiding principles laid down at Imperial Conferences as the basis of its policy for co-operation in Empire naval defence and for its own local defence. 
I, with other honorable senators, rejoice to think that we were so ably represented at this Imperial Conference, that the subject of dominion and intra-empire defence was fully thrashed out, and a definite forward policy adopted. It will be remembered that as far back as 1922 when the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  returned from the Washington Conference on disarmament, not only the parliaments, but also the people of Australia, were veering round to agree, after the great  debacle  of the war, that the time had come for a policy of disarmament to be pursued by the leading nations of the world. The great desire then was that all the nations should agree to a common policy of disarmament, but we all know what happened. Great Britain, the United States of America and Japan, the principal signatories to the Washington Disarmament Treaty, fulfilled their  obligations under the treaty, so far as disarmament went, by scrapping certain warships; but the treaty contained other conditions which permitted the building of new ships of war, and only Great Britain, respected the spirit of the treaty by not building the new vessels which it was entitled under the treaty to construct. The other nations continued to 'build vessels which were modern in every respect. Although legally they were entitled to do this, it was, as I say, not within the spirit of the. conference of 1922. All this led to placing the British Empire in a condition of naval weakness in which it had not been for centuries; that was especially noticeable during the very critical period of the ItaloAbyssinian affair, when the Mediterranean was a very tender spot so far as the movement of ships was concerned. At that time Great Britain, I think unfortunately, was not able to exert its full influence on the aggressor nation, mainly owing to its policy of disarmament, which the other great powers had not followed. Now, however, the people of Great Britain and Australia have seen the great mistake which was made, and the utter fallacy of disarmament by one country when others fail to carry out the real spirit of the movement. If it has done nothing else, this conference has caused an upward tendency in defence expenditure, in order to increase our communications with the other dominions, find to solidify the .position of the British Empire. I hope that very soon the Empire will again be the leading naval power of the world. As  Senator Grant  interjected, it will then be of much more use and value than the League of Nations has been so far in the settlement of international disputes. It is very foolish to believe, as the members of the Opposition do, that a policy of splendid isolation will meet the needs of Australia. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.The Opposition's policy of defence, with its bomb-proof shelters and so on, is only another version of the old Labour policy of the hollow log. They have simply camouflaged the log by putting a steel structure over the top, and calling it a bomb-proof shelter, but it is still the same old hollow log. No matter what they do or say, the fact remains that by their expression of belief in isolation, and their efforts to persuade the people that Australia, even when completely isolated from other parts of the Empire, can be defended, the real value of their defence policy can be gauged. We have heard, during this debate, what the position would be if the sister dominion of New Zealand- was threatened with invasion by a foreign power.  Senator Macartney  Abbott ably expounded that theme, and I need not reiterate what he said. We now have the opportunity, and the Government has seized it-, to push our defence policy to its utmost limit. In my opinion, it is quite time that this was done. The other matter which I wish to stress as part of Australia's defence policy is the training of our manhood. No matter how perfect our staff may be, or how competent our ships of war and their complements, there is yet, under our voluntary militia system, great leeway to be made up in the training of our man power. Even the members of the Opposition will admit that such a training would fit in very well with their own expressed defence policy. In 1914, when many of us were called to the colours, we underwent very intensive training. From the middle of August of that year right up to the 25th April, 1915, we went through a very severe course, and even after those seven or eight months we were not what could be called a highly trained army. The first division of the Australian Imperial Force was a very competent army, but still, in comparison with other armies, we were not what an expert would term highly trained. With that experience behind us, it is very necessary to do something for the early training of our manhood, and I think that the time is very near for the re-introduction of universal training as the law of the land. 
I should have said that the existing law should be allowed to operate, and that universal training should again be part and parcel of Australia's policy with  regard to its .young manhood. "We realized that ourselves in the early training which we underwent in the Australian Imperial Force. The young men amongst us who had undergone military training under the then compulsory system showed to great advantage as against those of us who had been a little too old to come under it. With that experience in om- mind, the time is ripe for something to be done in the form of the universal training of our youth, in order to make them competent in the defence of their own country. I deplore the fact that the Labour party has brought forward such a hollow sham of a policy not only with regard to the defence of the Commonwealth, but also in relation to the whole scheme of intra- Umpire defence. I could only wish that the present leaders of the Labour party had the vision and foresight possessed by some of the older men in the Labour movement in 1910 and 1911. Unfortunately, wc do not see in the present day Opposition the statesmanship that we saw in the early days, when the great men of the Labour movement brought forward those very necessary and urgent reforms in our legislation which were ultimately of such great benefit to the Commonwealth. I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues and the members of the Labour party generally, that, until such time as they return to those larger issues and eschew the pettifogging tactics in which they now indulge, the people of Australia will refuse to give them so much of their confidence as would put them back on the -treasury bench. 
I wish to comment briefly on the results shown to have followed from the recent very important conference. Naturally, the debate has related principally to defence, because, after all, defence is paramount in these days, when we find the world suffering from policies that a few years ago were almost unknown to civilized man. I should like to see a rearrangement of the system under 'which the defence of Australia is discussed, and even controlled. The United States of America has departed from the traditional idea by the appointment of select committees of Parliament to deal with many important administrative matters. 
The committees functioning in the United States' of America are entirely different from the royal commissions to which the Leader of the Opposition refers. I am speaking of Parliamentary committees. I believe that defence should be left in the hands of a committee of members of all parties in both Houses of the Parliament. Such an important subject as defence should be above party; a defence policy should be determined by the representatives of the people in both branches of this legislature. Certain methods adopted in the Parliament of the United. States of America and in the British House of Commons regarding Parliamentary committees are somewhat similar; but in regard to the Committee of Public Accounts in Great Britain they have gone, so far as to provide that the member of the Opposition, who was Chancellor of the Exchequer in a previous administration shall be a member of the committee. If war were to break out tomorrow, or if Australia even threatened seriously, the complexion of the party in power would not signify much, because all political parties would support a common policy to ensure the effective defence of the country. My suggestion would bc a distinct departure from, the present practice, but I believe that such a committee could render very effective service, and the executive power would still rest with the Cabinet. Such a committee would be fully seised of what was needed if Australia had to be defended against an aggressor. Of course it will be said that the Cabinet of the day benefits by the advice of the experts in its service, but history records that many important aspects of defence have been overlooked by experts, and that valuable suggestions have been made by practical men. The memoirs of  Mr. Lloyd  George, who applied his practical knowledge with great benefit to the nation, disclose that during the Great War the conflict, between British Cabinet. Ministers and military experts was intense and continuous. The responsibility should be placed on every member of Parliament, regardless of party, to ensure that a sound defence policy is  adopted. The present Leader of the Opposition and many members of the Labour party contend that the navy as a fighting force can be disregarded, and that Australia can be .properly defended by a fully equipped ,air force. But Australia  is  an island continent and its trade routes can be protected only by naval vessels. Capital ships are still regarded by the Government of  the  United Kingdom as essential for the protection of British interests. As evidence of the remarkable progress that has taken place in gunnery  in  recent years I may mention that a shell weighing one ton can now be projected seventeen miles at the rate of 1,200 miles an hour, and that ;i naval vessel, travelling at 35 knots an hour can hit a moving target over seventeen miles away. Once it was considered ;i wonderful achievement if a shell could bo. projected a mile, but during the Great War the German guns were able to hurl shells 90 miles. In the conflict raging between Japan and China Japanese capital ships are moored at exposed points and yet modern Chinese aircraft have failed to destroy or even seriously damage I' hem. Why do the members of the Labour party support their present defence policy? They are only playing up to people who like to hoar their representatives say that they will not send men, guns or money out of Australia in the defence of this country. A t the outbreak of a war in which Australia was involved, the members of the Labour party would be forced to do those tilings which they are telling the people they will not do. Nothing could be more ridiculous than the declaration that a referendum shall be held before any men or ships are sent from Australia. Only fools would make such a suggestion. There are always some who wish to avoid the responsibility of nationhood. Which portion of the  Empire carries the greatest burden  in  the matter of defence? Excluding the war years the proposed expenditure this year of over £10,000,000 on defence is greater than it has ever been, yet over a period of seven years Great Britain proposes to spend £1,500,000,000. and the taxpayers of that country are shouldering the burden. 
The first proposal was withdrawn and another involving almost the same taxation was adopted.  Senator MacDonald  referred to universal training which was introduced by the Labour party. 
Universal training is not conscription. 
.Will the Leader of the Opposition be honest enough to say that the members of his party feel their responsibility in the matter of the defence of Australia and the Empire? 
I have previously advocated in this chamber a thorough topographical survey of Australia. With all the sincerity of which I am capable, I again urge the Government to have a thorough examination made of every section of the coastline of Australia and its hinterland. A committee of military experts and mcn with a knowledge of bushcraft should be appointed for this purpose. 
The greatest thing that we can do for the preservation of peace is to prepare against attack. The happenings of the last fifteen years show clearly that only the defenceless have been attacked. Dictators and others have refrained from attacking strong nations. 
I do not know whether a survey of the coastal districts of Australia has ever been undertaken, but only recently the MacKay expedition, which visited Central Australia by aeroplane, reported that a number of lakes . and other prominent physical features are not in the positions indicated on existing maps. It may be that many of the plans of other parts of Australia are similarly incorrect, for it. must be remembered that this is a country of 3,000,000 square miles. The survey which I advocate should be continued over a number of years. 
Yes. If Australia were at war, the position would soon be reached when both the wealth and the man-power of the nation would have to be organized. 
On the contrary, a study of post-war taxation in Britain reveals- , 
Australia also was heavily taxed to pay for the war. The honorable senator will remember the imposition of taxes upon excess profits. 
I advocate also the construction o'f two main systems of arterial roads running into North Australia - one from South Australia and the other from Queensland. Concrete roads and low level bridges should be constructed where necessary. Moreover, this work should be commenced at once. Any government which wishes adequately to develop the northern portion of the continent should be willing to spend £1,000,000 or £2,000,000 in the construction of arterial roads. One has only to read  The Awakening,  by Mitchell, to realize Australia's defencelessness. The author has pictured an alarming state of affairs. He describes an attack on Australia, without warning; and his picture is so vivid that the reader can readily imagine the things that he describes.  Mr. Mitchell  is probably Australia's greatest war writer. 
I congratulate the Government on having embarked. on a policy which provides for the building of aeroplanes in Australia. In many respects, the future of this continent depends on the development of aviation. It is probable that within the next fifty years Australia will see remarkable developments of air transport, and I am, therefore, pleased, that the Government proposes to establish the manufacture of aeroplanes here on a solid foundation. In no branch of war activity is the wastage of both men and materials so great as in the air force. Before a pilot is competent to carry out war manoeuvres he must undergo a course of hard training. Although the Government has done good work in thi® direction, much more remains to be done. I should like to see thousands of young Australians trained as air pilots and mechanics. Iri Soviet Russia the people are becoming air-minded by the introduction of up-to-date and previously un though t-of methods. During a recent visit to Queensland, I was pleased to notice that the people of that State are probably the most air-minded in Australia. 
That has nothing to do with it. We must do more, not only in the training of air pilots, but also in the recruiting of them. The training of mechanics has also been sadly neglected. The present unsatisfactory position in regard to trained mechanics in industry generally is largely due to the wrong policies which have been pursued in the past. That state of affairs must be altered. We must train pilots and mechanics. New Guinea Airways, which is one of the most successful airways in the world, has realized the wisdom of having highly trained men on its staff. That company, which has made history by carrying by air heavy dredges over almost impassable mountains to gold-fields inland, has obtained the services of a highly trained mechanic, whose salary amounts to about £2,000 a year. Before leaving on a flight, every machine is personally inspected by him. The wisdom of the company's policy is revealed by the success which has attended its aircraft in  most difficult country. We must learn the lesson and train both pilots and mechanics. 
To a great extent, that is so. The present Government is the only Australian Government which  lias &lt;made a start towards obtaining greater .efficiency in these matters. 
I come now to the manufacture of motor vehicles in Australia. I realize that many difficulties must be overcome before this industry can be established on a sound footing, but I emphasize the necessity to manufacture locally internal combustion engines which may be utilized for defence purposes. In the event of war, our supplies of motor vehicles or parts required for such vehicles might be cut off. 
It is essential also that Australia take stops to provide its own oil fuel for aeroplanes, motor cars and other defence units. Practically all the oil fuel used in Australia to-day is imported. I do not know, what quantity of oil is stored in this country, but I imagine that supplies would not bust, for more than twelve months if fresh stocks did not arrive. 
I am glad that the 'Government has taken  step3  to produce oil fuel. The Senate will probably have before it within a few hours a bill to ratify an agreement between the Commonwealth Government, the Government of New South Wales and a  Mr. Davis  for the development of the oil shale deposits at Newnes. Should success attend the efforts at Newnes, Australia will not be entirely dependent on other countries for fuel supplies. Why is it that, instead of wholeheartedly supporting the Newnes project, the Labour party has tried to destroy it? 
Then why is it that in the New South Wales Parliament, the Leader of the Labour party,  Mr. Lang,  tried so hard to prevent the agreement from being passed? It is useless for  Senator Brown  to say that "For years the Labour party has advocated the development of Newnes", if, when a bill for that purpose comes before Parliament, that party opposes it. Oil is an essential fuel for the internal combustion engine which plays so prominent  a part  in naval vessels and aircraft,  and yet  those gentlemen who say what they would do to produce oil in Australia have done their best to oppose the very project  that  would make its production possible. 
It is true, as the honorable senator will see if he studies the  Hansard  reports of the proceeding in the New. South Wales Parliament. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator  Sampson) . - I do not think that  Senator Arkins  referred specifically to members of the Opposition in this Senate. He was speaking of the Labour party in a general way. 
I was speaking of what had taken place in New South Wales. 
Surely I can have my suspicions? 
I agree  that the  Leader of the Opposition does not very much like the former Premier  of New  South Wales. In fact, I believe he dislikes  Mr. Lang  very much. 
I believe  that  he does not now like  the New 
South Wales Labour leader, but I remind him that  Mr. Lang  controls practically all the Labour representatives of New South Wales in the House of Representatives, and I suggest that the honorable gentleman might do good service to Labour's cause if he appeared on election platforms in New South Wales to* tell the people something about the gentleman who, whenever he has a chance, does all in his power to prevent the Newnes shale oil deposits from being developed. As a rule, I appreciate the sentiments of the Leader of the Opposition, and I believe that he is in agreement with most honorable senators as to the value of Newnes. 
Now we have the kernel of Labour's objection to any constructive project. If a proposal is mooted for the development of oil from coal, Labour members want something else; now, in the case of Newnes, the Leader of the Opposition objects to the method of control. What are the facts? Let us examine the record of  Mr. Davis.  For the last twenty years, he has been, perhaps, the most prominent figure in the industrial life of New South Wales. He had to his credit the establishment of the Australian gelatine manufacturing industry which is the pride of our people and the envy of the world. Industrialists everywhere are agreed as to  Mr. Davis'  outstanding ability. The success of the gelatine industry is the more gratifying because, the by-products from which gelatine is manufactured were, for many years, regarded as worthless. To-day the industry employs thousands of men in all parts of Australia in its various phases, and returns a substantial profit. He has had similar success in the ship-building industry. For many years the dockyard at Cockatoo Island, while under government control, was operated at a heavy loss to the taxpayers. Eventually,  Mr. Davis  became interested, and from the highest possible motives, namely, to put it on a sound economic basis and give employment to Australian opera tives, he assumed control of that great undertaking. Even now the shipbuilding industry is again employing large numbers of Australian workmen and showing a reasonable return on the-, capital invested. I venture the opinion that practically all the trade unionists in Sydney, if they were given an opportunity to express their opinion., would declare that  Mr. Davis  was the most beneficent industrialist in New South Wales. It is now hoped that when the agreement for the exploitation of the Newnes shale oil deposits is completed, the development of the industry will be promoted along sound lines. It is only natural that before risking his capital in the enterprise,  Mr. Davis  should ask for a certain amount of protection from the huge oil corporations with which he will be in competition, and it is right that the governments concerned should give it to him, because he has proved himself to be a public benefactor, a man who is always ready to do things instead of talking about them. 
 Mr. Davis  id about to engage in the business of producing oil and its by-products which are so essential for the defence of this country. 
Apparently the Leader of the Opposition, having spent all his adult life in the Labour movement, has developed the mentality _ of trade union circles. He has been moving for so many years on one political stratum that he is convinced that to  be  a good trade unionist is the beginning and the end of everything. He is unable, to appreciate the motives of men like  Mr. Davis,  whose ability and energy have been directed to the establishment of industries which' give employment to thousands of Australian workmen. If the Leader of the Opposition and his friends in the Labour movement had done what Labour leaders have done in the United States of America, for example, and had established friendly societies, hanking institutions and other organizations to 'help the working men, we should perhaps have a higher regard for them. 
I impress on the honorable gentleman that the development of industrial enterprises, such as the one under discussion, ;i rises out of the resolutions carried at the Imperial Conference, which was attended by representatives from all the dominions; in all parts of the Empire governments are now giving their attention to implementing its decisions. If, for example, the Dominion of Canada, with its population of approximately 10,000,000, decided to spend money on the development of its air defences, its action could be regarded as a contribution to the defence of Australia or any other dominion of the Empire. Canada itself is protected by the Monroe Doctrine, which guarantees the inviolability of the American Continent. 
I know what is in the honorable gentleman's mind, but in time of need there would be nothing to prevent an aircraft carrier from transporting a large number of Canadian military aircraft to Australia. I  undestand  that modern aircraft-carriers', such as those attached to the navy of the United States of America, have accommodation for about 150 planes. 
I agree with the honorable gentleman, but the same difficulties would be encountered by" the British navy in transporting military aircraft to or from any of the dominions. 
I am pleased to know that the Government has established works for the manufacture of arras and munitions, and that there is reason to believe we shall have an adequate supply in time of need. 
I would not oppose that course, if events proved it to be necessary, because  Mr. Davis  is a man of outstanding business ability, and. actuated by the highest motives. Another essential to the effective defence of Australia is the manufacture of the Bren machine gun. 
This Government has reason to be proud of its achievements during the .last five years. The gratification expressed at the Imperial Conference with reference to the constructive proposals advanced by the Prime Minister of Australia was well deserved. If we look at the Government's defence proposals from any aspect - naval, air, military, munitions, the co-ordination of secondary industries or the production of oil - we have to acknowledge that the Lyons Government has rendered a distinct service to the people of this country. Following upon the greatest depression in the history of this country, the Lyons Government has been able to institute a remarkable defence construction programme that will redound to its credit and the credit of those associated with it. 
.- It is natural, I think, that the debate on the Imperial Conference report should have centred largely in the subject of defence. The objective of the Imperial Conference was to evolve a scheme for the' co-ordinated defence of the Empire. We sent our own Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill)  abroad to attend the conference, and his main job was to take the advice of the greatest experts in the world on all matters pertaining to defence, as to the best way, considering all the circumstances, in which Australia, in making preparations to defend itself, could help in the defence of the Empire. I would have no quarrel with the Opposition for the attitude it has taken in regard to this matter if its members knew definitely that the building up of our aerial defences was the best method of defending Australia; but honorable senators opposite are not competent to express an opinion in regard to this very important subject. I would not think of expressing an opinion as to whether we can best defend ourselves by building up an air force, a navy or a land force, or by a combination of the various arms. We sent our Minister for Defence to the Imperial Conference to ascertain that, and if he did his job properly, these are the very matters that he must have discussed with the greatest experts in the world, men who have spent a lifetime sur'veying the tactics and strategy of modern warfare. I have not the slightest doubt that the Minister for Defence did his job very thoroughly, and is now putting into operation a defence policy based on the advice given to him abroad. For me or any one else without a knowledge of the tactics and strategy of war, or only a very minor knowledge of them, to say that this or that is the best method of defending Australia, without heeding the advice of world experts in these matters, is nonsensical. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that one should not discuss finance because economists have expressed expert views? 
The Leader of the Opposition has suggested that all munitions can be made in Government factories, and  Senator Arkins  has said that our existing factories are sufficiently organized to supply our requirements of small guns and munitions of war. I can assure  Senator Arkins  that in the event of an attack by a first-class power the whole of the Government munition factories in Australia would not be sufficient to arm one-fifth of the number of men it would be necessary to place in the field. It would, therefore, be necessary to seek the aid of private enterprise. The  Government  factories already established are a good nucleus, they can be the foundation of an effective organization; but the laying down of plants to turn out the big guns, rifles, shells, shrapnel, and other munitions that would be required in an emergency would entail an expenditure of from £100,000,000 to £120,000,000. 
I claim to have some knowledge of the organization of the industries of this country, and am capable of expressing an opinion about them. When we talk about munitions of war, most people think in terms of guns, aeroplanes, shells and gasmasks; as a matter of fact, however, in modern warfare there are hundreds of other things just as vital as are shells and a well-equipped army. I have grave doubts that departmental officers, men trained in military matters, are the best qualified to undertake such an organization. I should like to see the peace-time mobilization of the industries of Australia, and of the necessary supplies, placed in the hands of some hig outside organizer, with a couple of departmental men to help him. The defence forces' should be able to state their requirements to the various industries, and to ask them in what quantities, and at what times, these could be supplied. Then a man, who has been conducting a big business concern, who has been used to buying in quantities, and who knows how to set about the organization of affairs, should be made the  chairman  of a board to control supplies. 
The coordinator of defence in England is a lawyer. 
We should proceed along those lines of organization. The Government may hu pursuing them already, but I do not think it has advanced very far in that direction, and the sooner a complete survey of all the industries of the Commonwealth is made the better it will be for our efficient defence. As I have already pointed out, there is no saturation point in defending Australia. The saturation point is the safety point. In calling attention to these matters I am not in any way criticizing the Government. I believe that organization is proceeding on the right lines and that the Minister for Defence, when he went to England, must have taken the advice of the finest experts available there, and has now a. policy that will be adequate for the defence of Australia. 
But for the implementation of that policyit is essential that the whole of our industries shall be able to play their proper parts in a time of emergency. 
.   -  I should not have spoken on the subject of defence but for certain remarks made by Labour members. I realize that I have a very elementary knowledge of the subject, and I think that applies also to the majority of the members of the Labour party. I regret that that party did not take the opportunity to be represented by one of its leaders at the Imperial Conference. Members ofthe Opposition have referred to the report of , the conference asa "dud", but I venture to say that had one of their leaders gone to the conference, where he would have had the opportunity to meet the best military  experts  in the British Empire, who I believe are the best in the world, he would have come back with opinions entirely different from those which are being expressed by the members of his party at the moment. Like myself, they are groping in the wilderness. They have not the faintest idea of defence, and yet they propose to put out to the people a policy as something adequate to defend this country. I have followed the debates very closely, and I noticed that one honorable member in the House of Representatives charged this Government with doing nothing more than preparethe youth of Australia to be gun-fodder in the next blood bath. That is a most disgusting statement by an ignorant individual. If he had not been ignorant-, he would not have made it. I am glad that the members of the Opposition in this chamber have been too intelligent to stoop to such references, but I would remind the honorable member who made that statement that sitting on the Government benches in this Parliament are thirty odd members who are returned soldiers. They are men who have experienced the horrors of war, and I do not think that any one of them is prepared to rush the youth of this country into another war. The honorable member admitted that he was chased all over Australia to enlist, and hounded from place to place because he did not enlist. What qualifications has such a man to submit a defence policy to the electors of Australia? He knows nothing about it; indeed, very few men in the Labour party know anything about defence matters. 
Thirty of those who went to the war are sitting on the Government side in this Parliament, but all I can find on the Opposition side is one returned soldier from the last war and one from the South African war. 
The honorable senator is at liberty to make another count, and will probably find that I have erred on the generous side. I feel quite confident that the returned soldiers in this Parliament will review very carefully the defence programme put forward by the Government. Those who went overseas recently, and had the privilege of consulting with the best military brains of the Empire, must have come back much enlightened and with firm convictions as to the best defence policy for the safety of Australia. 
-I do not believe that. I think the fight thatis now going on would have come in any case. The Government also has the opportunity to consult all the military experts in Australia and I am sure that the people will recognize that it has plenty of reliable material from which to mould a defence policy. The reason why the members of the Labour party refer to the Conference as a " dud " is that, so far as they are concerned, it is a " dud," because they lost a golden opportunity to gain first-hand knowledge of what was taking place. Much of the information given to that Conference could not, I believe, be made available even to the members of this chamber, but  Mr. Curtin  or SenatorCollings was invited to go to England and attend the the Conference, and I, as an Australian, very much regret that one or the other did not accept it. It would have been  a  great thing for Australia if the whole Parliament could have tackled the defence problem on a national plane. 
There was no need for the honorable senator to wear them. He lost the oportunity of a lifetime. Had he gone to the Conference he could have come back, and dealt with defence matters intelligently. Ho would have known something of the subject r.e is tackling that he does not know to-day. Surely defence is not going to be made a party political issue at the elections? But if I am to take notice of what Ihave seen in a certain little blue book, that seems very likely to happen. The Labour party says that the great difference between its policy and that of the Government is thatLabour advocates air defence, whereas the Government regards' the navy as the principal arm. I do not think there is a great deal of difference in the expenditure proposed on the air force and the navy. The amount to bo provided for the navy is £3,616,000, whilst for the air force, if civil aviation, which must be an arm of the air force, be included, the total vote is £3,612,000, or a difference of only £4,000. Provision is made in the naval programme for the construction of at least one seaplane carrier to work in conjunction with the air force. Defence should not be made a party issue at the forthcoming general election. 
That is not so. As I usually read  Hansard  from cover to cover, I am able to learn the views of the members of the Opposition in both Houses on the subject of defence, and it makes me shudder to think what would happen to this country if, by some miracle, the party now in opposition should be given the right to occupy the treasury bench after the next general election. The Australian people realize that the Labour party lost a golden opportunity when it declined to send its leaders in this Parliament to attend the important functions associated with the Coronation. I support the motion, and sincerely trust that the Government has already started to give effect to the defence programme it has laid down for the present financial year. 
.- I join with  Senator Marwick  in expressing regret that the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  and the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber  (Senator Collings)  declined to accept the invitation to visit Great Britain during the Coronation ceremonies. I realize that Imperial Conferences are attended by the representatives of the British and dominion governments, but provision should be made for accredited representatives of all parties in Parliament to attend such gatherings at which matters of vital importance to the Empire are discussed. I agree with  Senator Arkins  that it is ridiculous for members of the Labour party to say that a Labour government would not allow forces to be sent overseas until a referendum had been held. 
The Leader of the Opposition knows that the blue book which outlines the policy of the Labour party states that the party will not supply our defence forces outside the Commonwealth "Except by decision of the people. " The only way in which the decision of the people can be ascertained, is by means of a general election  or  a referendum.. If any portion  of  the British Empire were attacked by one nation or a group of nations, we would disregard our political differences and organize the facilities at our disposal with the sole object of defending our interests. It would be stupid to suggest that while the Empire was at 
Avar  Australia should adopt a policy of neutrality. Does the Leader of the Opposition think that if Britain were attacked one of the dominions could remain neutral and that that neutrality would be respected by the enemy? A declaration of war against Great Britain would be a declaration of war against all parts of the Empire. Even if Australia declared that it would not send troops over-  seas to participate iri war, such, a declaration of neutrality would not he  heeded  by the aggressor. 
During the general election in 1914, the late  Mr. Andrew  Fisher said that if Britain was at war, Australia was also at war, and that Australia would send not only the last man but also the last shilling. That statement is as true to-day as it was then. 
The party led by  Mr. Fisher  won the election; its policy in regard to the war was approved from one end of Australia to the other. Later a split in the Labour party occurred over the conscription issue, but many members of the party who supported the policy that had been enunciated by  Mr. Fisher  remained in control of the Government of the Commonwealth for several years.. If Britain should again be engaged in a major war, Australia would again have to organize its forces to defend this portion of the Empire. 
But the Leader of the Opposition contends that no troops should leave Australia. I trust that it will not be necessary for forces to be sent overseas, but it is better to defend Australia in the territory of the enemy than to allow it to destroy our cities and kill, perhaps, thousands of innocent women and children. Those engaged in modern warfare have no respect for individuals, and women and children are very often the first victims. I do not think that the Labour party will gain a single vote from intelligent persons by putting forward its present defence policy. 
I deplore the statements made in this chamber and in the House of Representatives that certain nations are potential enemies of Australia. I have heard veiled references to our neighbours in the far east; but there is no justification whatever for assuming that any nation is our enemy. 
At present, the Commonwealth is doing only what practically every other nation is doing. Australia, as a portion of the British Empire, must do its share. One of the nations referred to by some as a potential enemy of Australia has been an extraordinarily good customer of ours for some years past. 
There has been some discussion as to whether Australia should fall into line with Great Britain or should pursue its own course in matters of foreign policy. It is true that the dominions have the fullest possible independence and the most complete self-government, but I doubt whether it would be wise for them to exercise their undoubted right to make independent foreign treaties. In my opinion, the British Empire should have only one foreign policy. It is better that all the dominions should meet at the heart of the Empire with representatives of the Mother Country, and formulate one foreign policy for the Empire, than that each dominion should negotiate its own treaties. At the moment I am not referring to 'trade treaties. 
Australia has adopted the White Australia policy, believing that it is in the best interests of this country, but does the Leader of the Opposition imagine that South Africa or India is in full sympathy with that ideal ? 
Even Great Britain, with its millions of coloured subjects, cannot view this matter as we in Australia do. Were Australia to exercise its undoubted right to follow its own policy in its dealings with other nations, and, as a consequence, become involved in a conflict arising from its White Australia policy, does the Leader of the Opposition think that the other members of the British Commonwealth of Nations would be enthusiastic about coming to our aid in the upholding of that policy? The several dominions would be more likely  to get into trouble by acting independently than by walking in step with the rest of the Empire. 

 Senator Allan MacDonald said that it might become necessary at some future date to re-introduce military training of the youth of this country. I understand that at the moment sufficient young men are coming forward to keep the units which are operating under our present defence scheme at full strength, and that, therefore, it is unnecessary under present conditions to reintroduce compulsory military training. There is, however, much to be said in favour of teaching the younger generation something of .what they would have to do if ever they were called upon to resort to arms in the defence of their country. When on Gallipoli in the early days of the war, I had an opportunity to see the effect of having untrained men sent as reinforcements to battalions which had incurred great losses in the early stages of the campaign. 
Many of the men who were sent to Gallipoli to reinforce battalions which had suffered heavily at Lone Pine and elsewhere were insufficiently trained. At Shell Green I myselfsaw men who, almost immediately afterwards were sent into the front line trenches, being instructed in the loading and unloading of rifles. Their lack of training resulted in heavier casualties than would otherwise have been caused. 
The Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill)  has announced publicly that he is satisfied with the numbers of men who are enlisting in the various units at the present time. Indeed, some units - I refer particularly -to technical units in Queensland --actually have a waiting list. No shortage of men exists at the moment. I think, however, that great advantages would accrue from the introduction of some form of physical training along the lines of the exercises for which Sweden is famous. I advocate, not so much drill of a military nature as is practised in many older countries, as the physical training of our youth. 
That is what we all want to ensure. The Leader of the Opposition knows that young men who are fit physically are more likely to obtain jobs than are those who are under-nourished and under-developed. A scheme of physical training such as I suggest would assist many of the lads who are now out of work to obtain employment. The honorable senator is not alone in his desire to see the youths of this country in employment. I take it that that is the desire of us all, irrespective of the political party to which we belong. From my own experience, I assure the Senate that one of the reasons why there are so many persons unemployed in Australia is the enactment mainly at the instigation of the Labour party, of legislation dealing with apprenticeship. There are jobs awaiting trained men which cannot be filled because sufficient trained men are not available. That is true particularly in the iron and steel industry. Employers are unable to obtain sufficient skilled men for their requirements, because of the legislative restrictions which have been placed on the number of apprentices who may be. employed. One of the best ways to overcome this difficulty would be the subsidizing of industry to allow more and more lads to be trained as tradesmen. Unfortunately, too many young men are not skilled in any trade at all. There are in Australia too many unskilled workers, and too few skilled tradesmen. I could name half a dozen concerns in Queensland which could give employment to skilled men if they were available. In order to obtain them, advertisements have been inserted in newspapers circulating in New South Wales and Victoria. If the Leader of the Opposition goes to western Queensland during the forthcoming election campaign and makes investigations there, he will find that there is plenty of employment awaiting men who are willing to work as station hands.  Senator Brand  said that numbers of young men who wished to join the citizen forces were rejected because of physical unfitness. If those youths, many of whom were rejected for some temporary physical deficiency, such as insufficient chest measurement, were given an opportunity to attend free gymnasiums, they themselves, as well as the country, would reap on advantage. 
I deplore the statement of the Leader of the Opposition that . the recent Imperial Conference was a " dud ". Had rhe honorable gentleman availed himself of the offer made to him to visit Great Britain as a member of the Empire Parliamentary Delegation, he might have come to a different conclusion. In my opinion it would be a good thing if the leaders of  His  Majesty's oppositions in all the parliaments of the Empire were given the opportunity to attend such conferences, for then I believe that much of the criticism which is now indulged in for party political purposes would not be heard. 
 In the very full discussion which has taken place on the subject of the Imperial Conference, a good deal of heat has been engendered. Many members of the public, speaking for the most part with their tongues in their cheeks, and  90  per cent. of. the conversational reports regarding the delegation to Great Britain which have appeared in the press from time to time, roundly condemn these visits, which they describe as "pleasure trips at the public expense." Indeed, the political opponents of the Government have coined a new slogan - " Join theU.A.P. and see the world ". When they are more fully conversant with the work done by the conference they will be satisfied that Australia has received full value for the expenditure incurred. Even the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  who, shortly after the return of the Prime Minister, said that the deliberations of the conference were of little value to Australia, now admits that some good may come from it, although he qualifies that statement by saying that the work could have been done as well through the ordinary channels of communication. But every one knows that conferences are the accepted method for the discussion of differing views, and that decisions of conferences are of great value.In this country, all organizations, be they political, social, or national, meet in conference once a year or more often at some agreed upon centre, and the members of those organizations regard the decisions as essential to their progress. This being so, how much more essential is it that the. widespread dominions of the British Empire should likewise confer from time to time as to their common policy and relationship with the Mother Country? As we pay homage to one sovereign who is domiciled in the British Isles, it was appropriate that when representatives of the dominions were gathered together to take part in the Coronation celebrations, they should also discuss matters of vital concern to the Empire as a whole. 
The impression which one gained from the speech of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  was that the delegates of all the dominions realized the seriousness of the Empireposition, and that defence was of major importance in order to discourage potential aggressor nations. 
I have no doubt that members of the Australian delegation were well informed on this subject before they left our shores, but it is certain that they returned with a very much fuller knowledge of world conditions, and fully determined to co-operate with the other dominions in any scheme for Empire defence. It was early realized that, to be effective, there must be no overlapping of Empire defence schemes, and that each dominion should evolve proposals making possible the rendering of mutual assistance. I am fully convinced that, in presenting a summary of the conference proceedings, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  did not desire to stampede the people of this country into the acceptance of the Government's proposals. All the right honorable gentleman did was to present the world position in its true light. 
Even critics admit that every party must have a defence policy, and the Leader of the Opposition has promised to supply honorable senators with copies of the famous little blue book, issued under the authority of the Leader of the 
Opposition in the House of Representatives, in which, are set out what our Labour friends are pleased to term their " adequate " defence policy. We differ with them as to the interpretation to be placed on the word " adequate ". Labour's defence policy is purely one of home defence ; it does not envisage assistance being rendered to any other dominion. This has been on the platform of the Labour party ever since I have had anything to do with politics, and it seems to me that in the course of time it has become somewhat threadbare. Consequently, our Labour friends have deemed it necessary at this juncture in world affairs, to add something to it in order to make it acceptable. Therefore they declare that no member of the Australian defence forces shall be sent overseas until after the taking of a referendum. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.And that means the taking of a referendum. Now the honorable gentleman wishes to disown that statement. 
Most honorable senators will recollect the referendum taken in 1917 to decide whether or not Australian men should be conscripted for  Avar.  I shall not now discuss the merits or demerits of that proposal, but shall content myself with the statement that, on the occasion referred to, the verdict of the people was very definitely in the negative. Our Labour friends were quick to appraise the significance of that vote and I have no doubt they realized that it might be of some use in the future. That momentous decision convinced them that an appeal to the people on a similar issue would evoke the same reply ; so they have added to their " adequate " defence platform this provision relating to the taking of a referendum. 
There is a division of opinion as to  the  best means of defence in the event of war. Some people regard the military forces as paramount, others consider that we should develop the air force, and still others hold to the belief that a strong navy would be a determining factor. It is, I think, beyond doubt that a strong naval force is necessary to protect our trade routes and transport foodstuffs and men, if necessary, to the theatre of war. We should also bear in mind that a strong navy may be instrumental in determining where the theatre of war shall be. That, to my mind, is worthy of a great deal of consideration. No country, as  Senator Foll  has pointed out, would desire to see its women and children slaughtered and its industries devastated by war. All would prefer to meet the enemy somewhere else than in their own country. In 1815, when Napoleon was rampant over Europe and appeared likely to destroy established civilizations, Great Britain did not wait until the aggressor, having dealt with his enemies on the Continent, could turn his attention to England itself. There was then no talk of a referendum. The British Government acted promptly and at Waterloo, in alliance with other European powers effectively destroyed Napoleon's power. A similar decision was made in 1914. When German troops were moving to invade France the British Government did not wait till the Germans had crushed France and were ready to cross the Channel to invade England. England and France, acting in concert, took military measures to prevent the German armies from reaching their objectives and we know with what result eventually. 
This idea pf taking a referendum to implement Labour's defence policy is absolutely brand new, not only to Australia, but to the world ; and  Senator Brown,  who usually is not at a loss for words, found some difficulty in answering the devastating criticism of the Leader of the Senate, of  Senator Hardy, Senator Dein  and other honorable gentlemen who exposed the extreme folly of Labour's proposal. 
It was most unusual. I think  Senator Brown  must have forgotten, as the Leader of the Opposition apparently had forgotten, that this is only a child, a weak and sickly child that they will not be able to rear. 
Our delegates at the Imperial Conference were prominent in the debates and we, as a dominion, are now preparing hy our defence provision to substantiate the utterances of our representatives and to prove that theirs were not empty words. We are showing that we are ready to co-operate with the other British nations for the defence of the Empire as a whole. I feel sure that I shall not be regarded as parochial when I appeal to the Government to see that at least some of the proposed defence provision is, wherever practicable, distributed in the smaller States. 
I congratulate the Government on the Newnes agreement, which I hope to see validated by legislation during the present sittings of the Parliament. I agree to a great extent with what both Senators Brown and Arkins have said in regard to this important new industry. I ask the critics of the agreement to realize what ample supplies of petrolmean in modern transportation, even in peaceful times ; and how much more they would mean in time of war. ' I feel sure that if the critics of the Newnes agreement would consider the question from that angle they would be quite satisfied that in. time of war, petrol would be cheap in this country at any price. I hope that the Government will pursue its policy for the establishment of industries for the extraction of oil from coal, vegetable matter, or any other source. There is no reason why the extraction of oil from shale should, be confined to New South Wales. In Tasmania there are large deposits of shale, and having regard to the constant . agitation by members of the Labour party in the House of Representatives, that the shale deposits in New South Wales be worked, I am rather surprised that no effort has been made by the Labour Government in Tasmania to exploit the shale deposits in that State. The Adelaide Oil Exploration Company, which has spent large sums of money in research and experiment in connexion with shale deposits in Australia, has asserted that the Tasmanian deposits would yield 48 gallons of oil to the ton of shale, a better output than is promised at Newnes. I urge the Government not to confine its attention to the Newnes project, but to give equal consideration to the development of shale deposits in all the States. 
Not necessarily. Personally I do not want the Government to keep it in its own hands. In my opinion, the function of a government is to govern, not to trade. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Another important subject dealt with at the Imperial Conference was the nationality of women, a problem which had considerable attention at the last preceding conference. Legislation has since been enacted to give to women in Australia, and New Zealand improved nationality rights, and I hope that as a result of the recent conference that reform will be extended to other parts of the Empire. , The conference also discussed the matter of further Arctic exploration. I do not know very much about whaling, and I do not think much will come of the proposals for the commercial development of the Arctic. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.I agree that that it is so. A suggestion was also made that a meteorological station should be established in the vicinity of the South Pole. Weather reports issued from such a station upon which long range forecasts could be based would be of great value to a country like Australia, large portions of which have sparse rainfall and irregular seasonal conditions. Empire trade was also discussed. The original term of the Ottawa agreement, which has' been of great advantage to Australia, and the benefits of which we shall continue to reap, has now expired. I understand that there is to be a conference of representatives of the British and Australian Governments on the trade relations of i he two countries, and, I feel sure, that the result will be of great benefit to Australia, despite the fact that there are some who believe that' we do not profit by sending representatives to conferences of that hind. The very important subject of Pacific shipping was also under consideration ; there is need for cooperation between British countries in regard to shipping as in regard to many other matters. I suggest that, instead of reducing the number of conferences between the Mother Country and the dominions, it would be to our advantage if more of them were held. 

 Senator DUNCAN-HUGHES (South Australia [5.53]. - I do not propose to deal with this subject in detail to-day. As it appears to me, the. Imperial Conference dealt in generalizations rather than in concrete and specific details, and I propose to follow the same line. At the outset, I want to refer briefly to our representation in Great Britain, and its cost. On the question of cost, I would say, shortly, that, if the work be well done, the cost is a matter so negligible as not to be worth consideration. I have no reason to believe that the work was not well done. I happened to bo in Great Britain while the Imperial Conference was sitting. . Whilst that, of course, does not necessarily give me any special knowledge, I was able to look at the work of the conference perhaps from an angle different from that of other honorable senators. I know, as a matter of fact, that the Prime Minister was very cordially welcomed on the other side of the world. The representatives of the British Government would indeed have welcomed cordially any Prime Minister of Australia, of whatever party, but it was natural that a country, the people of which are so courteous and so insistent upon straight dealing in financial matters, should very gladly welcome the Prime Minister of Australia who, himself, has always been courteous, and who, six years ago, gave to the whole of the world an example of what rectitude in public finance means. The Treasurer  (Mr. Casey),  of course, is an old friend of many people on the other side of the world, and the Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill)  also had been there before. Australia is indeed fortunate in having as High Commissioner a great Australian,  Mr. Bruce.  Sometimes, I am afraid for political reasons, there is a tendency to attack that gentleman. I, myself, was in Parliament with him, and was substantially a follower of his, although I had frequently reasons to disagree with him; but I had not quite realized until I went to England this time, how great a position our former Prime Minister holds in the opinion of the world.  Mr. Bruce  is, without question, regarded in Great Britain as a very great man, not because he is an Australian, but by virtue of his own intrinsic qualities. Australia is very fortunate to have such a good representative as be is occupying the position of High Commissioner. 
In discussing the reports of overseas delegations, I always wish that one could say a fuller word about the public servants , who have accompanied the Australian representatives. It always seems a little hard that members of the Public Service who attend these conferences should be collectively dismissed with the general tribute that they had done good work. Anybody acquainted with these matters knows that sometimes the chief largely depends upon the work done for him by his assistants, and while to group -them collectively as having done good work may be sound in principle, I am of opinion that a public servant who has done specially good work may get individual recognition. 
The real advantage of the 'Premiers Conference was that it brought the whole of the Empire together in a way hardly ever achieved before. The coronation year is an historic year in the life of the Empire, and whilst the actual coronation was the crown of the coronation proceedings, the "parliamentary proceedings that followed it were also on a very high level. They started with the meetings of the Empire Parliamentary Association; at the lunch in "Westminster Hall 800 members of parliament sat at table, and the King for, I believe, the first time in history, attended and addressed the gathering. These proceedings were followed by the Imperial Conference. At the first plenary meeting the  chairman,  in the course of his opening speech, said - 
Though we shall discuss other important subjects we are agreed that the questions of foreign policy and defence shall be our main subjects. 
That in itself accounts for the fact that, as one reads through the report, one finds it somewhat nebulous in its conclusions, and somewhat general regarding the subjects with which it deals. That is quite inevitable, and does not mean in the least that very valuable work may not have been done. It surely should be obvious 
I hat, at a time like the present, foreign affairs and defence, which are so interlocked, are in their very nature subjects that cannot be discussed in public in the fullest detail. I have never been one of those who believe that open diplomacy is a possibility where you are dealing with other nations. It is obvious that you cannot say frankly and fully all that you believe to be the case. You cannot, for instance, speak specifically of what nations might be a potential enemy, because those thing3 would be an. affront and an offence to the people concerned. That is one of the last effects that one desires to cause. There must, therefore, also be a certain amount of reticence when we are dealing with armaments, and with all the implications of possible war. You cannot give the statistics of all the dominions, or their inmost thoughts, or tell the world at large the difficulties that there may be in bringing them .all into line. You could no more do it in a parliamentary paper than by speech in the Senate. It is not to the advantage of peace, and it is not to our own advantage, that these disclosures should be made. 
I spent some weeks on the continent, where I went to half-a-dozen different countries, and the one thing brought  home  to me most forcibly was that the rearmament policy of Great Britain had done more towards the peace of the world than anything else that has happened for very many years. One heard, not only while abroad, but after returning, from people who had also been abroad on every side, that the very fact that w© had rearmed, and that our aims and intention? were so obviously peaceful and not warlike, had the greatest effect over the whole of Europe at least. It made those who were inclined to be aggressive a little less so, and it made those who thought they might have aggressiveness applied to them somewhat less timid and more anxious to combine with one another than they had been in the past. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 by leave  - A message dated the 7th September has been received from the Administrator of New Guinea to the effect that the wireless operator at Kieta has reported that  Mr Bagana,  about 70 miles west of Kieta, has been in violent eruption since 8 a.m. on 7th September, with columns of smoke rising over 15,000 feet. 
At 3.30 p.m. the eruption was very violent, and there was an apparent blackout to the north-east of the mountain. 
The Administrator states that there is no danger to the township of Kieta, but that the area near the mountain is thickly populated by natives. 
The Administrator adds that the volcano has been more or less active since the beginning of the year. 
Kieta is situated on the island of Bougainville, which is the largest of the Solomon Islands included within the boundaries of the Mandated Territory of New Guinea. Kieta is about 250 miles to the south-east ofRabaul. 
The island of Bougainville covers an area of about 3,880 square miles. An extensive forest-covered mountain range called in the south the Crown Prince Range, and in the north the Emperor Range, covers almost the whole of the island. The highest point of the Crown PrinceRange reaches 9,850 feet and the highest point of the EmperorRange is Mount Balbi, 10,170 feet. Balbi is in constant eruption.  Mr Bagana,  6,500 feet, is an active volcano of the Crown PrinceRange, about 30 miles south-east of Balbi. 
The township of Kieta is the headquarters station of the district of that name. It has a small European population and contains a post office and a radio station. 
-Can the Leader of theSenate state on how many days the Senate has met since October, 1934? Will the right honorable gentleman also say how many sittings of the Senate have been attended by  Senator Sir Walter  Massy-Greene, exclusive of the period of which leave of absence has been granted? Does that honorable senator still draw his parliamentary allowance, or is it being placed to the credit of the United Australia Party funds? 
Can the Leader of the Senate say who is the treasurer of the Australian Labour party in New South Wales; no one else appears to be able to give the information? 
SenatorSir GEORGE PEARCE.That question should be addressed to the Leader of the Opposition. The Government has no information on the subject. 
Is the Leader of the Opposition yet in a position to supply to honorable senators copies of the Australian Labour party's "blue book ", which were promised a week or  two  ago? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT.- The question does notrelate to the business of the Senate and is therefore out of order. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact, as reported in the  Canberra Times  of 7th September, that 120 married men on relief work in Canberra were paid off on Friday last? 
Is this consistent with (a) the pressing needs of the national capital in the matter of greatly increased housing and other accommodation, or (b) the Government claim of abundant prosperity? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answers: - 
The scale of employment which will operate as from the6th September, 1937, in respect of unskilled married men employed on relief work is one week in two. Half the employees therefore will stand down each week. Fulltime employment will again be provided during the month immediately preceding Christmas. During the last fourteen months these employees have had the equivalent of twelve months full-time employment. 
The above relates only to unskilled labourers for whom very little employment can be provided in connexion with building construction. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon,  notice - 
Has the Government received an invitation to attend the Empire Migration Development Conference to be opened by the Right Honorable the Lord Mayor of London  (Sir George Broadbridge, K.C.V.O.)  in the Guildhall, City of London, on the 11th October, 1937? 
If so, is it the intention of the Government to be represented officially at that conference ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
Yes. 
The matter of representation at the conference is receiving consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that an air mail and passenger service between America and New Zealand, supplied by an American fleet of aircraft, is proposing to commence operations in December of this year? 
Is it a fact that the Australian portion of this air mail will have to be carried from New Zealand to Australia by steamship service? 
If so, will the Minister consider expediting the trans-Tasman air mail service to commence at the same time as the America-New Zealand service? 
.- On behalf of the Opposition in this chamber, I have again to protest most emphatically against the procedure, which is becoming an incurable habit, of this Government keeping Parliament in recess for the greater portion of the year, and then bringing . down important measures without giving honorable senators an opportunity to criticize them effectively. We all know that, as usual, the Government is scurrying into recess. Personally, I think it is rather wise to do so, because by prolonging proceedings in full view of the electors it is hastening its political demise ; if I can do anything to expedite that occurrence I shall be only too willing, to do so. In discussing this bill, I propose to deal with a number of subjects which appear to me to come within its scope, the most important of which is that of  defence. I am going to ask honorable senators not to repeat the " hooligan " behaviour to which this chamber was treated yesterday afternoon. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator sampson).  - The Leader of the Opposition must withdraw it. 
l.n deference to your wishes, sir, I do so. I shall put it in another way, which I hope will not incur your displeasure. 
The DEPOT Y  PRESIDENT.-  The honorable senator need not consider mc in the matter. I shall see that the rights of all honorable senators are protected. 
I needed protection yesterday. The spectacle to which we were treated in this chamber yesterday afternoon was not in the least edifying, and was continually and definitely a discredit to those honorable senators who participated in it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - The honorable senator is now making a similar statement in another form. I was in the chair and there was no hooliganism. 
I have already withdrawn the statement to which exception has been taken. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - The honorable senator has said that the proceedings in this chamber were not edifying and were discreditable to certain honorable senators. The proceedings were not discreditable. 
If the remark is offensive I withdraw it. The conduct of  Senator Arkins,  who .was one of the chief offenders to whom T have alluded, was not becoming a gentleman of some distinction and claiming a measure of education.  It was apparent from the remarks of those honorable senators opposite who criticized the Labour party and its defence policy yesterday, that they have the guts to do everything bin defend their own b't of the Empire. The members of the Labour party have assumed full responsibility for the defence of Australia and have declared to t],e  nation  that they will fulfil that responsibility. Yesterday, during the de hate on the Imperial Conference we were definitely slandered on the  subject  of defence. I repeat that honorable senators opposite, and their colleagues in another place, have all the courage necessary to commit Australia to join in every mercenary war that may be undertaken, but lack the courage and constructive ability to defend 7,000,000 people, the citizens of Australia, who belong to the Empire as much as any others do. I repeat what I said to  Senator Duncan-Hughes  yesterday afternoon, that in the policy outlined by him and others of his party there was no room left for the doctrines of Christianity and that, in the circumstances which these gentlemen outline and their reactions to them, the Sermon on the Mount will again be censored, if war ever again breaks out, which God forbid. In this connexion I would say that honorable senators in the Government are in all this nefarious propaganda merely preparing the stage for a loyalty election campaign. They know that they dare not go to the country on their own deeds. 
I am not afraid of the- honorable senator. 

 - Senator Hardy interjects, ignorantly as usual, that the suggestion of a loyalty campaign is better than selling our navy to Japan. I do not think that any one in the Labour party here Or elsewhere has ever proposed to sell Australia's navy to Japan, but this Government, of which  Senator Hardy  is such a thick and thin supporter, although he was a thick and thin condemner of it before the alliance with the Country party, is deliberately allowing Australia's iron 01'e and stores of scrap iron to be" exported to another country. Although it is continually asserted in this chamber that that other country is the potential danger in the Pacific, the lessons of the past are never heeded by honorable senators opposite. They have forgotten all about Gallipoli, they have forgotten all about the Dardanelles, they have forgotten that the military and naval experts of the United Kingdom are being sent to other countries to train their nationals in the fine arts of defence. They forget that on Gallipoli, Australian soldiers were murdered. I use the word " murdered " deliberately, because it was not  a fair fight. One honorable senator said that the young recruits from Australia did not know how to load or unload it rifle, and that when they got to Gal lipoli they were mercilessly mowed down. How were they mowed down? By guns and munitions manufactured by British armament firms for profit, as everybody here knows. I would not dare to say that during war time, because the censor would be after me, but -some of us knew what was going on. 
As usual, I tlo not know what the honorable senator is talking about. He is always in such a state of mental obfuscation that nobody but himself knows what he is suggesting. The members of the Australian Labour party in this chamber and elsewhere are prepared to go to the people of Australia on the Government's loyalty campaign. Let honorable senators opposite make no mistake about that. They will not have the advantage of the atmosphere that existed in 1914. All the Christian churches are not behind them this time in this campaign. Most of the churches are arrayed in these days against the Government policy and against war. 
It is hard to say who is not for war on the other side, because this chamber yesterday afternoon was full of fire and brimstone, emanating from their speeches. An address was delivered a few days ago by the Reverend J. Faulkner at the Leichhardt Presbyterian Church. The reverend gentleman, criticizing the allocation of an immense sum for defence in the federal budget, said - 
The Government should take the people into its confidence and toll  them  whether these armaments are to protect the Commonwealth against the fear of aggression in the Pacific. Is this huge vote really necessary for defence, or is Australia, consciously or unconsciously, in the hands of war mongers who make big profits out of armaments whether war is real or imaginary? 
I asked that same question, by interjection, in this chamber. I demanded that the Government should tell us who are the people against whose attacks we have to defend ourselves, but I did not get the information.  Senator Foll  yesterday said that we were not entitled to suggest that we had potential enemies. 
I say that we ought to know why we are spending it.  Senator Poll  said that we had no potential enemies. 
"What is it, and  where  is it,, that we are to defend ourselves against ? Why all these bellicose speeches in the chamber? Quite recently  Senator Foll  advocated the policy of building up a standing army in Australia, but yesterday he weakened, and suggested something he called Swedish drill, quite an anaemic proposition from a defence point of view. Unlike  Senator Allan  MacDonald, he had not the courage to stand up and say what the Government's intentions were, but  Senator Allan  MacDonald, who has some sense of logic, said that the report of the Imperial Conference was a business proposition, that it meant business, and that the Government had returned from the meeting prepared logically to carry out the implications of the report. He went on to say that in his opinion it was time to revive compulsory military training in Australia. I told him a fortnight ago that that was the intention of the Government. I pointed out to honorable senators and to the people of the whole nation that unless the Imperial Conference decisions, agreed to by Australia, are merely pious platitudes with no business behind them, there is no doubt whatever that they must be implemented by compulsory universal military training and conscription of the manhood of Australia for service abroad whenever the next war occurs. 
This sudden admiration for a Labour government in another dominion is very amusing. In fact, it would be tragic if we did not know the capabilities of the honorable senator. We know that he is devoid of any sense of logic or responsibility, and is utterly unable to give expression to the same line of thought on two consecutive days. 
Honorable senators need not worry about it, because they will find that a Labour government, when it controls the destinies of Australia, will loyally and fully co-operate with New Zealand, the sister dominion across the Tasman Sea, in Labour's policy in regard to any matter. I wish now to quote a newspaper report of a debate in the House of Lords - " The Primate the other day said ' Christians are entitled to draw the sword for a righteous cause '," remarked Lord Ponsonby in the House of Lords recently. The Archbishop of Canterbury : " It may be true, but I am not aware of having said it." Lord Ponsonby: " I think I am right in saying that the Primate used the expression ' the sword.' " The Archbishop of Canterbury: "I quoted St. Paul." Lord Ponsonby: "The Primate ought to have brought St. Paul's words up-to-date, and, instead of the . sword he should have said  chlorine, phosgene, mustard gas, Lewisite and thermite.' Then he should have asked his fellow Christians if they were justified in using those in any cause at all." 
Honorable senators will remember the remark I made earlier as to the lack of courage on the part of those Up loyalists, those flag flappers, those spurious patriots who were so vocal in this chamber yesterday afternoon. One can tell the lack of business behind the whole plan when one finds that this Government proposes, in this .budget, or in this Supply Bill, to begin again the pernicious practice of borrowing abroad. It intends first to float on the London market £2,500,000 worth of treasury-bills. These cannot be left eternally floating in mid-air, and, undoubtedly, the intention is to float a loan on the London market, to redeem them. If there is any honesty behind the defence proposals of the Government, honorable senators opposite should see to it that the people who are to be protected pay for the protection. We all know perfectly well that an overseas loan cannot be floated and paid for in anything but goods, that the result of the loan comes here not in cash, but in the form of goods, and that every pound's worth of imports which could be manufactured in Australia means that some good Australian has been kept out of a job. As a matter of fact, the Government really proposes to spend on defence less -than the amount it has indicated. 
I mean less from revenue, as the honorable senator well understands. I can tell the Government the proper thing for it to do. . In. this chamber, yesterday, one honorable senator, I think it was  Senator Arkins,  proposed a complete survey of the resources of Australia, so that we could be prepared to meet a national emergency. It was very significant to me that the honorable senator left one important matter entirely out of his purview. He had nothing whatever to say about taking a survey of the private wealth of Australia, or about calling on that wealth' to contribute in order that Australia might be adequately defended. Of course, he could say nothing else but what he did say. The right honorable senator had to be eloquently silent on that point because his Government is determined at least that the workers, who pay for war in blood and treasure, shall carry the greatest burden of taxes. It is time the people of this nation were told just where this combination of United Australia and Country parties, these queer bed-fellows that constitute the Government of this country to-day, stand on this matter.  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  who was one of the few speakers yesterday afternoon who lifted his share of the debate on to a high plane, is always a gentleman. That compliment is very willingly paid  to  the honorable gentleman, however much we of the Opposition may disagree with him on matters of policy. He makes no secret of the fact that he is an Imperialist, and he has just returned, he tells us, from a trip to the United Kingdom; during his absence he had the benefit of a tour through six different European countries. He also has the advantages of social prestige, wealth, and superior education. Yet even he, when he came down to tin tacks yesterday afternoon, visualized the need for boots, rifles and machine-guns and then said that it was no use. having all those things unless men were ready for them. I imagined that at. the moment all he could see in the prob lem of defence was the preparing of enough feet to go into enough boots, and enough training to enable men to destroy life and property. 
The difference between the Labour party and those parties which form the Government is that we say without equivocation what our defence policy is; it is in the blue book. I regret that I have not been able to make the wholesale distribution, of that publication which I promised to make to honorable senators, but, if any honorable senator is honestly looking for information in that book, I have about six copies in my room, and I shall be delighted to give them away. 
With the greatest pleasure. 
Most certainly ; there are no others. The Labour party has never had anything to hide. 
In the House of Representatives last night I heard a statement by a supporter of the Government that in no circumstances would he touch the Statute of Westminster and that it was a very dangerous thing. The Statute of Westminster lies behind the whole, or at least a large portion, of the Labour party's attitude on this matter of defence. The Statute of Westminster, as passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom, definitely provides that the government of every dominion in the British Commonwealth of Nations shall have complete sovereignty in all matters, including the defence, and war. I want to separate the matter of defence and the question of going to war. Every honorable senator knows, in spite of all the false insinuations that are made from time to time, that this party is definitely pledged to the defence of Australia. In this chamber yesterday, we heard that the defence of Australia might be more effectively accomplished not here, but "over there " and every where else, and one honorable senator went so far as to say the North Sea. The Labour party is not having that on. 
I have not said so. Labour declares that not one man shall be sent from these shores unless the people of Australia decide that that is the policy they desire. 
Honorable Senators. - What is the honorable senator's naval policy? 
The chorus of interjections about the navy illuminates the dark recesses in the skulls of the honorable gentlemen who make the interjections, because their interjections show definitely that they have entirely forgotten that it was the Australian Labour Government, led by the late Andrew Fisher, which gave to this country the navy about which honorable members opposite talk so flippantly. 
The Australian Labour party is not alone in its outlook on defence matters. The Deputy Prime Minister of South Africa, General Smuts, has made the declaration - 
The dominion would not remain in the League pledged to fight old-world  wars 
The honorable senator applauds. We are told of the chameleon which can change its colour to suit the colour of its environment, but which upon coming to the tartan plaid of a Scotsman tried to change its colour so quickly and so often that -it died in the attempt. I am reminded of it by some honorable senators who, from day to day, change their creed- just as readily a3 the Government changes the names of its political affiliations. I repeat that itis not only the Australian Labour party that says these things ; similar statements have been made in other dominions. The ex-Prime Minister of Canada,  Mr. Bennett,  was equally emphatic - 
Canada would not embroil herself in disputes in which she was not directly interested. 

 Mr. Pirow,  K.C., the Minister for Defence in South Africa, said - 
If war broke out, and the Government were to attempt rashly to commit South Africa to an oversea adventure, he was afraid there would be a large-scale disturbance and' possibly civil war. 

 Senator Badman has made an interjection concerning the late Andrew Fisher. Honorable gentlemen on that side of the House hated  Mr. Fisher  and slandered him. Yet, to-day, he is held up by hon orable gentlemen opposite as having been  a better man than the honorable gentlemen who sit in the Labour Opposition in this Senate to-day. 
That is so. He could not get a job in the mines at Gympie from the men who provide the funds of the United Australia party and Country parties; he had to tramp barefooted out of the place ; but to-day, when he is dead and no longer a factor in the political life of this country, they have nothing but admiration for the late honorable gentleman. 

 Mr. Fourie,  Minister for Labour in South Africa, said - 
As to war we shall most certainly not  take  part in any war we have not ourselves decided to take part in. 
The Prime Minister of Canada,  Mr. MacKenzie  King, was also very definite at the recent Imperial Conference. There is no mention of these in the report delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons).  All he did was to submit a report of the Imperial Conference, which, would have been better designated as electioneering propaganda. The right honorable gentleman was eloquently silent on the fact that at that conference there were representatives of sister dominions who did not agree with the course adopted by the Australian delegation. Just listen to what  Mr. MacKenzie  King said - 

 Mr. MacKenzie King pointed out at the recent Imperial Conference that the prevailing opinion in Canada was opposed to any assumption of international obligations. The Canadian people would not despatch another expeditionary force to satisfy European obligations. 
The Melbourne  Herald,  on the 10th November last, said - 
The earnestness of the defence 'debate last week indicates that both parties are beginning to realize the supreme importance of assuring the national security. 
It continued - 
To Labour must be given credit for the most significant advances made in Australia's defence since federation. 
I have known  Mr. Curtin  all his life and no gentle- man - I am not talking about  Senator Hardy  - could possibly accuse him of somersaulting; but 1 have, witnessed this prince of political acrobats,  Senator Hardy,  perform the finest somersault that has ever been accomplished in this Senate since 1 have been a member of it. From a keen opponent of the Government, he has become now its slavish supporter. 
The defence policy of  Mr. Curtin  is the defence policy of the Australian Labour party, which I read in this chamber not very long ago. 
I proceed to refer to matters connected with the tariff policy of this Government and particularly to a recent happening. It is well known that this Government has recently appointed what it is pleased to call a tariff advisory committee consisting of  Mr. C  H. McFadyen, of the Department of Trade and Customs, who is Chairman;  Mr. S.  F. Ferguson, Director of the Australian Association of British Manufacturers, member; and  Mr. L.  Withall, Secretary of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, member. The honorable member for Wentworth  (Mr. E. J. Harrison),  who is not a member of this party, hut a thick" and thin supporter of the Government, asked certain questions on this matter in the House of Representatives - questions which I think should have been asked. The answers are in  Hansard.  In my opinion, the appointment of this committee is ill advised. It is further delegating power away from the Minister and this Parliament. If there is one thing to which I object more strongly than anything else, it is the continued delegation of power from the ministerial heads of departments, and the failure of the Ministers themselves to do their jobs. If the taxpayers pay men extra salaries to act as Ministers - I do not suggest that they gay them enough, because I do not think that they do; we should have fewer governments and more highly paid members of the national government - and those men accept the contract by taking the taxpayers' money, they should give equivalent services in return, and have no right to delegate powers to bodies which they create and which ultimately become more powerful than their creators. 
That is so, but I remind the honorable gentleman that this Commonwealth has built up a magnificent Public Service which is at its command; notwithstanding that a tariff board was appointed. But even that immense secretariat is not sufficient to enable the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  to do his job, and he has delegated other powers to the Advisory Committee. Not many manufacturers in this country will be prepared to go before that Advisory Committee and submit facts regarding their lines  of  manufacture. 
They will not go before the Advisory Committee and tell what they are doing, their profits, and processes and what their dealings are. I have in my possession correspondence, which I daresay other honorable senators have received from persons engaged in manufacturing, and from it, I gather that they will put this information before the Tariff Board, but not before their competitors through the advisory committee. What fools they would be to do anything of the kind. 
Now for a few words about tariff matters. During its term this Government has been monkeying with the tariff which was imposed by the Scullin Government to give effective protection to Australian industries, and had the endorsement  of  the majority of the people. In its five years of office this Government has reduced the protection on nearly 2,000 tariff items, thereby bringing about an element of uncertainty about the security of existing industries, leading to insufficient employment, insufficient food and insufficient spending power for Australian workmen. Every reduction of the tariff has affected the homes of some factory employees and lessened their prospect  of  employment. In this connexion I was extremely interested in the linguistio  acrobatic performance of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  during a recent visit to Brisbane. I heard the right honorable gentleman's speech, delivered at the annual show of the Royal National Association of Queensland. I admit that he made some interesting observations about increased prosperity, and I give him full credit for the fact that at no . stage did he mention "My Government", or suggest that credit was due to it for the improvement that had taken place in the economic situation of the Commonwealth. Nevertheless, those who heard him could not dissociate the Prime Minister and this composite Government from the increased prosperity now being enjoyed by some sections of the people. 
It is, however, significant that the Australian Broadcasting Commission would not put the Prime Minister's speech on the air, because of the fear that he would probably take advantage of his privileges to deliver a political speech. 
It is my intention to tell the Senate to what extent this Government does, not stand up to its responsibilities in connexion with broadcasting. 
I shall not knowingly omit anything; if I do I feel sure that the honorable senator, who reminds me of a perpetual note of interrogation, will prompt me. The Prime Minister when in Brisbane said that Australia had emerged from the valley of depression to the hilltops of prosperity, and he added that there were still further hills to climb. That was all very fine and there was certainly some truth in the statement. But when he was in Sydney a little later he spread himself in a somewhat different way. The right honorable gentleman repeated the story of abounding prosperity, but said a number of other things also. 
No; for once in his life  Senator Hardy  has asked what appears to be a reasonable question. We on this side do not deny that, compared with depression years, there is a greater amount of prosperity in this country, but time will not permit me to examine the situation in detail, and show just where credit for this improved condition lies. We do not, I repeat, deny the present comparative prosperity of Australia. On. the contrary, we are happy to acknowledge that the condition of the people has improved ; but, before I resume my seat, I intend to ask the leader of the Country party a few questions under the heading, " Where is- this prosperity?" Then I shall tell him where prosperity is not. 
The Prime Minister, in the course of his speech in Sydney, said that the conclusion to be drawn from the industrial survey of the Commonwealth undertaken by this Government had revealed certain things. He added that, in Queensland, unfortunately, the situation was not quite so good as it ought to be, because the number of factories in  that  State had decreased, and there were fewer factory employees. Both statements were, knowingly or unknowingly, false. 
If the Prime Minister knew what he was talking about, his statement was not in accordance with the facts-; if he did not know, apart from the fact that, as Prime Minister, it was his duty to know, he ought to have kept silent. 
Let me now tell honorable senators how this wonderful economic survey was conducted in Queensland. My information on this point is to be found in a statement made by  Mr. Forgan  Smith, the Premier of that State. This is taken from the newspaper report of an interview with him - 
In Queensland information was obtained from a mere handful of factories, and upon that narrow basis the Prime Minister had made sweeping generalizations which did injustice to this State. He was also informed that no official approach had been made to the Queensland Bureau of Industry,  which  could have supplied useful information. Pot instance, it could have informed the economic surveyors that, in Queensland in 1932-33, registrations of companies were 206, with a nominal capital of £12,500,000, and that on the 30th June, 193C, there were 3,052 companies in the registers of the State, with a total nominal capital of £449,313,562, an increase oi £15,126,815. It is also a fact that numerous companies registered in other States trade in Queensland. This has been brought about because Queensland has the most up-to-date companies legislation in Australia, with the greatest protection to investors and the public. 
The Premier of Queensland further stated that he had ascertained the sources of the information relating to Queensland used for the so-called Commonwealth industrial survey, and had discovered that neither the Commonwealth nor the State statisticians had been consulted. Thus it would seem that, upon material so obtained, the Prime Minister had spread himself before the Chamber of Manufactures or some other body in Sydney, and talked at large to the disparagement of my State. The report continued - 
The Brisbane Chamber of Manufactures and the Chambers of Commerce hail been asked to supply lists of firms which were producing new goods, or had expanded, but the lists supplied for Queensland were incomplete, and some firms did not send replies at all. As an example of important firms which were not included in the alleged " survey ", the Premier mentioned Evans, Deakin Limited, of Brisbane, Walkers Limited, of Maryborough, and the Toowoomba Foundry, all of whom are large employers. It was through such omissions that the Prime Minister's figures showed a much larger capital investment' for each employee -in Queensland than in some other States. 
For the benefit of  Senator Hardy  I propose now to say a few words about the attitude of the Labour party to the sister dominion of New Zealand, and to mention also the attitude of New Zealand on tariff matters.  Mr. Savage,  the Prime Minister of New Zealand, and  Mr. Walter  Nash, Minister for Finance, both personal friends of mine, have returned lately from the Imperial Conference which was attended by the Prime Minister of Australia and other Commonwealth Ministers. 
I thought I had said all that was necessary on that subject, hut apparently the honorable senator from Tasmania has an insatiable appetite. If he is seeking further enlightenment, he should pursue his inquiries in the right quarter. On the subject of tariffs,  Mr. Nash  said - 
The economic outlook of the British Nationalist Government- here we get a breath of fresh air from the salt sea of Labour politics; and an intelligent outlook on. the Empire situation with regard to tariffs - is based on the outworn scarcity theory- 
This is the old-time theory which influences the economic policy of this Government as "well as the governments of many other nations. Yet in the midst of abundant production we have the destruction of essential foodstuffs in order to keep up prices. In Brazil, for instance, millions of bushels of coffee arc destroyed  every  year ; in Seville, millions of bushels of oranges are destroyed.; in Denmark, thousands of milch cows are destroyed annually; and, to come nearer home, in Tasmania, thousands of tons of apples in seasons of glut are fed to the pigs or ploughed into the ground. Thus in times of abundant production we have the cruel and criminal paradox of starvation and malnutrition among the peoples of the world as well as a tremendous volume of unemployment. Let me repeat the opening sentences of  Mr. Nash's  speech, and give the whole of his statement- 
The economic outlook of the British Nationalist Government is based on the outworn scarcity theory and on the idea that the " law " of supply and demand should be allowed complete freedom in determining a price level, except that, if prices fall low enough to stir the home producers to exert their influence, the Government would be prepared to restrict consumption in order to force prices up. The economic outlook of the New Zealand Government follows the newer philosophy that the determining factor should be the possibility of production being increased till every human, need is satisfied. 
I commend that statement to  Senator Hardy  and Senate Ministers.  Mr. Nash  went on* to say - 
The British Government certainly could put a restriction on consumption by controlling imports, but I pointed out that our policy was to utilize to the full the resources of New Zealand, and to send them in various forms to the United Kingdom up to the point where the needs of the people of the United Kingdom would be satisfied. It is obvious that there are millions of people in Britain who have 'far less to cat and wear than their reasonable needs. 
Of course it is true; otherwise  Mr. Nash  would not have said it. 
The honorable senator is showing some interest in the policy of New Zealand now. 
Recently, the Department of the Interior has accomplished wonderful things. I say this on the authority of the  Canberra Times,  a newspaper which, at least, endeavours to hold the balance fairly between the contending parties in this Parliament. It does not always agree with the actions of this Government; on the other hand, it cannot be called a supporter of the Labour party. 
As Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, and on behalf of every working-class organization in Queensland, I emphatically protest against ordinance prohibiting assembly outside Parliament House, Canberra. In my opinion ordinance is directly opposed to every recognized principle of British justice, and further, is  ultra vires  the powers conferred by the Seat of Government acceptance and administration acts. 
I propose now to place before my honorable friend,  Senator Brennan,  who represents the Attorney-General in this chamber, what I believe to be the legal aspect of this matter. 1 shall give, not my own opinion, but advice that I have been at some pains to obtain. The Commonwealth  Gazette  of the 22nd July, 1937, published a unique ordinance, which purported to prohibit unlawful assemblies within a proclaimed area in the vicinity of the Federal Houses of Parliament. Section 3 of that ordinance laid it down that- 
It shall not be lawful for any number of persons exceeding twenty to meet in the open or in any part of the proclaimed place for any unlawful purpose. 
There is nothing new or objectionable in that, I admit. In fact, a new ordinance was not necessary to apply this law. It is in the definition that the unique character of the ordinance is disclosed. A subsection of section 3 states - 
For the purposes of the last preceding subsection, persons shall bc deemed to have met, or to be assembled for an unlawful purpose, if they or any of them, while assembled, do anything unlawful- 
AVe all agree with that but, unfortunately for the Minister, he has given a definition of what is unlawful. The sub-section continues - or make known their grievances, or discuss public affairs or matters of public interest, or consider, prepare, or present any petition,  memorial, complaint, remonstrance- 
Have honorable senators ever heard of anything so monstrous having been done to a community, not one individual in which has a vote for the election of a member to this Parliament? These people are denied the right to assemble and hold a meeting outside Parliament House. They must not discuss their grievances, present petitions, or do anything which every other community may do without let or hindrance. In every other part of Australia the people have a vote, and can have their views expressed in the different legislatures, yet those who reside in the Federal Capital Territory cannot do anything of the kind, because they have no vote. They must not, according to this ordinance, " present any declaration or other address to  His  Majesty or the Governor-General". What a pity it would be if the serenity of the Governor-General were disturbed by his being told by a few of the unemployed that their kiddies go to bed in the cold of winter without a blanket to cover them. The prohibition against the presentation of any declaration or other address applies also to " both Houses or either House of Parliament, or to any Minister or officer of the Commonwealth ". These disfranchised people must not even say to a departmental officer - " Excuse me, sir, can you tell me what the position is regarding such and such a matter, because we are thinking of taking some action and do not want to transgress the law?" If 20 persons do that without warrant - - 
I wish to touch on a very serious matter that comes under the control of the Postmaster-General's Department. I have already had something to say in this Senate concerning the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Quite a long while ago I made certain definite charges against the members of that body, with the result that  Major Conder,  who should never have been appointed to the position that he held but should have been left to continue bullying the prisoners in- Pentridge gaol, of which he had been governor, was dismissed. We were not taken into the confidence of the Government, but apparently it believed that my charges were well founded. I have no wish to restate those charges, and shall content myself by saying that the personnel of the commission does not commend itself to me. I have previously enlarged upon the lack of qualifications on the part of the members, including the lady member,  Mrs. Couchman.  With respect to that lady I wish to add to what I said on the last occasion, because further information has since been placed in my possession. Does the PostmasterGeneral consider that it is a part of the duty of any member of the commission to go in to the offices of the commission where ladies are employed, inspect the quality of the sanitary paper that is being used in the lavatories, condemn it as too expensive, and go through the girls' bags during their absence? 
I say definitely - and I intend to submit evidence in support of my contention - .that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is utterly and cowardly biased, and that it is discriminating continuously between members of the Australian Labour party and supporters of the present Government. 
 That is why the honorable senator wishes to nationalize all B-class stations. 
 In nationalization? 
That is no excuse for pirating B class stations. 
The honorable senator said that they should be under the control of the Government. 
I suppose the honorable senator is also in favour of the nationalization of newspapers. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - Order ! 
Canon Garland advised that the Premier's speech on the occasion of a communion breakfast at St. Barnabas Church which was to be broadcast by 4QG would not be so broadcast owing to the last-minute decision of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
These paragraphs were published in the same paper on the 11th, 12th, 13th, 17th  and 19th August respectively. 
It was reported that the Australian Labour party in South Australia had protested because  Sir David  Gordon,  President  of the Legislative Council in South Australia, had been allowed to speak through the South Australian National station on the 10th August, 1037. The South Australian manager of the Commission said the broadcast was arranged weeks ago- 
Premier Forgan Smith stated the announcement of his broadcast was published with the programme on the 31st July, 1037, showing that the Australian Broadcasting Commission was aware of the intention to broadcast his speech. 

 Mr. Finlay, manager of 4QG, announced that the station would not broadcast speeches by the Premier and the Prime Minister from the Brisbane Show. 
The Royal National Association asked 4QG to refrain from broadcasting any speech from the Brisbane Show. They considered that the attitude of the Commission was an affront to the dignity of the association. The speeches were broadcast by " B " class stations. 
Fears were expressed in New South Wales that the attitude of the Commission would interfere with the broadcasting in connexion with the anniversary celebrations.  Mr. Dunningham  suggested that in view of the Commission's attitude to politicians, the ceremonies connected with the anniversary celebrations should be broadcast by " B " class stations. 
The Prime Minister denied that he contemplated disciplining the Commission. He stated that the Commission was free from political control and that each case should be treated by the Australian Broadcasting Commission on its merits. A hard and fast rule should not be made. 
The genius, who is chairman of the commission, and has been extolled from one end of Australia to the other, was once an accountant in a brewery. Later he was appointed Railways Commissioner of New South Wales, but finally got out of that joh. He is now chairman of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I noticed a few days ago that he has been paid an honorarium of £2,000, and it would be interesting to know why that  payment was made. In the same paper of the 9th August, this paragraph was published: - 

 Mr. Cleary, of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, explained the policy of the collision, stating that there would be no broadcasts by politicians until after the Federal elections. He stilted that the commission had already refused to broadcast other politicians including the Prime Minister. 
Fancy the impudence of this man in a snarling attitude saying to me, a member of . this Parliament, what I shall and shall not do. This is how the Government does its job. This is how the PostmasterGeneral allows Cleary to run the rule over him, and make him a mere puppet in the important department he is controlling. Although I disagree entirely with the political views of the right honorable the Prime Minister, I always respect the high office which he holds. The paragraph continues - 
The Premier replied to this statement by saying that his broadcast was not analogous to those of Messrs. Lyons, Menzies, and Curtin and he doubted whether the commission would have refused to broadcast these if they had been speaking at a Communion Breakfast. 
It was reported that  Mr. Casey,  Federal Treasurer, had been broadcast from the Wesley Church, Melbourne, at a " Pleasant Sunday Afternoon ". 
The Premier of Queensland also came into the picture. What happened? Immediately the Prime Minister and the State Premier began to speak the microphone was to be withdrawn. All lesser lights would be allowed to say what they wanted to say. We do not submit meekly to such humiliating treatment. We do not do things that way in Queensland. Wo told those representing the Australian Broadcasting Commission to "keep off the grass ", and that if they could not broadcast the speeches of the Prime Minister and the Premier of Queensland, we would arrange for their speeches to bo broadcast by the " B " class stations. The representatives of these stations stood up to their job and the transmission was excellent. In the  Courier-Mail  of the 10th August, the following paragraph appeared : - 

 Mr. Finlay, manager of 4QG, explained that he did not refer the matter to the general manager of the commission until the Friday before the proposed broadcast, hence the last minute decision. He said that the  arrangements for the broadcast of  Mr. Casey's  speech and another by  Mr. Curtin  bad been made before the commission's ruling had  been made- 
Considerable work has to be done in preparing for the celebrations of the Royal National Association and great enthusiasm was displayed at the officia luncheon presided over by the Lieutenant Governor of Queensland, but because some of the speakers happened to be members of Parliament their remarks could not be broadcast. I have a fair command of language, but when I realize the frightful indignity inflicted upon these representatives of the people language fails  me.  The commission suggests that politicians are infants in swaddling clothes and should not be treated as decent citizens. I challenged the qualifications of  Mr. Moses,  the general manager  of  the Australian Broadcasting 'Commission, when he was appointed, and I do so again. I know that the Government has no satisfactory reason for allowing him to retain his present position. The day following the action taken in Brisbane this mau came along and submitted me to the greatest insult I have ever suffered. I make it a guiding principle in my life not to submit to any injustice without protest. I am making my protest to-day against this " whipper snapper " - this incompetent. Prior to his appointment as general manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission he was a mere sports commentator, and he has had the audacity to say that because the speeches of politicians are neither educational nor entertaining, he does not propose to allow them to be broadcast. 

 A broadcasting station licensee shall compile and maintain in a recognized business or commercial form separate accounts in respect of his broadcasting activities: 
Make such accounts available for inspection by the Postmaster-General as required; 
Supply to the Postmaster-General as required a duly audited balance-sheet in detail for the year ending on the 30th day of June each year; 
Keep such records relating to the broadcasting service as the Postmaster-General from time to time directs and supply copies thereof to the Postmaster-General as required. 
I could not get the information because the Postmaster-General said he had no knowledge of the earnings of the B class stations. These stations are paying a merely nominal sum for their licences. They are doing splendid work. The answers I received were entirely unsatisfactory, because they did not disclose the real state of affairs. The B class stations are under the control of the PostmasterGeneral, or so nearly so that it makes no difference, and he should be able to tell us exactly what is going on. 
I wish to say something about pensions. What has been done by this Government and the preceding . Government, the Scullin Government, has been frequently commented on in this and another place. On every occasion the opponents of the Labour party trot out the old story that it was a Labour government, the Scullin Government, that reduced pensions. 
You bet it was ! 
9  
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Sena tor Sampson). - The word "criminal" is out of order. 
It counts the surrender value as an asset. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - In the opinion of the honorable senator, are those words offensive to him? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - Under the Standing Order, an honorable senator must not use .offensive words directed against either House of the Parliament or any member of such House. 
Has Labour ever tried to alter them? 

 Senator Collings has not the slightest sympathy for those people; he sympathizes only with that section of the pioneers, which in many cases, because of its thriftlessness has had to draw old-age pensions. I admit that some pioneers who exercised thrift during their lifetime have been compelled, because of unforeseen circumstances, to fall back on the pension, but there are many others who, because of their tliriftlessness  and because  they  have never denied  themselves  every form of pleasure and luxury, have, by their own act. brought themselves within the pension class. 
That is' the attitude of the Government to the pioneers of this country. Possessing a good salary and a lovely home with environments that in every way are conducive to contentment and decency, it is easy to get up from the banquet table with a well-filled stomach, but it is very difficult for people in such positions to put themselves in the place of those people who have been systematically robbed by this Government which is entirely out of sympathy with them, and whose only sympathy in the matter of national insurance lies with the upper class whom it wishes to relieve of the liability for pensions which it is now carrying. Supporters of the Government say that the cost of pensions is rising and that tlie country cannot go on increasing its liability in that respect. Therefore this Government wants to introduce something that will take the liability off the backs of their wealthy friends and put the burden on the backs of those who should not have to carry it. 
Before I conclude I wish to know from  Senator Brennan,  who represents the Attorney-General, how much longer the people of this nation are to be treated like a lot of children by the censorship. How much longer are the members of this Parliament to be told when they go into the Parliamentary Library. " You cannot get that book because it is on the banned list " ? In other words books printed and published in the old country without ban are denied to members of this Parliament because a bau has been placed on them here. 
There are some " lovely " books published in the old country ! 
The Collector of Customs at Sydney,  Mr. Mitchell,  was asked - 
Do you think it fair that some publications should be allowed into Australia in expensive editions, while cheap editions of the same work are banned? 
I have never heard anything more ridiculous or insulting to the people in this connexion in my life than  Mr. Mitchell's  reply. He said - 
The object is to allow such volumes to be available to the student and the cultured reader and at the same time prevent them from falling into the hands of the bulk of the population. 
All books? 
By way of interjection yesterday, and now by way of explanation, and in gratitude for the extra time allowed to me I state that yesterday in this chamber I suffered for three hours. I did my best then to be orderly, but transgressed on some occasions under compulsion. Now, keeping within the Standing Orders, I say that yesterday I was subjected .to the greatest indignity that I have ever suffered in my political career. Never before have I heard anything that was so unfair, ungentlemanly and unsportsmanlike. To-day I have told this assembly definitely where I and my colleagues stand on the different matters to which I have referred. I know a great deal of it is unpalatable to those honorable senators who do not support the Labour party, but I tell the Senate in what will probably be my las't effort before we go to the country that my speech this morning represents the lines on which I shall appeal to the electors of Queensland. 

 Senator HARDY (New South Wales) [12.22J. - We have had an assurance from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that he suffered itf this chamber yesterday for a period of three hours. I express the unanimous opinion of all honorable senators except that of  Senator Collings'  supporter when I say that we have suffered in this chamber for the last hour and a half. When the Leader of the Opposition speaks of such words as " unsportsmanlike I answer him by declaring that if we wanted a precedent for unsportsmanship, it was provided by the honorable senator himself in his attack upon a lady who is employed by the Broadcasting Commission. I have been in this Senate for about six years but on no other occasion have I ever heard an honorable senator on the floor of the Senate take advantage of parliamentary privilege to launch an attack on the good name of a woman. That is one thing, at least, which the people of Queensland will remember against the honorable senator when he faces the bar of public opinion within the next couple of months. 
I thought that the ghost of the invalid and old-age pensions story had been well and truly laid to rest. I thought at least that we would hear the last of it when the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Bill went through this Parliament last week', but the Leader of the Opposition was away. In his attack on the Lyons Government to-day, in which he told how the pensioners had been robbed of their due rights, the honorable senator carefully refrained from entering into the history of the invalid and old-age pensions system which was recapitulated in this chamber last week. For the honorable senator's benefit and in an attempt to improve his education on this matter, in order to prevent him from future misrepresentation of the facts, I shall again recapitulate the history of invalid and old-age pensions. 
I turn now to the association of the Communist party with the Australian Labour party. The Leader of the Opposition, in answer, to an interjection which I made during his speech this morning, said that the Communist party was an ally of the United Australia party. 
The  Communist party, to show its sincerity, lias withdrawn all but one or two candidates and will give full support to tha endorsed Australian Labour party candidates. 
Does the Leader of the Opposition disown the help that will be given to his party by the Communists during the coming election ? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - Order ! 
The claim that this Government has been responsible for the present prosperity of Australia is well founded. Its record will stand the closest investigation. When it was returned to office the affairs of the Commonwealth were in a state of chaos, due to the faulty administration of the Seullin Government, and it is to the credit of this Government that order was restored and prosperity ensured. 
One matter which I should like to see clarified is the policy of the Labour party with regard to broadcasting. This matter should be put beyond all doubt, because in the blue book, containing an outline of Labour's policy, there appears the statement that, if successful at the next elections, the Labour party intends to carry out the greatest radio steal that has ever been perpetrated in the history of the industry. 
Having regard to the paramount importance of wireless broadcasting, and the tremendous influence it can exert, broadcasting must be essentially and exclusively a publicly controlled utility. 
Immediately that book was issued, the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan),  realizing the implication of its policy concerning broadcasting, issued the following statement -  " The listening public of Australia and the many thousands employed in the industry," are anxious to know what would be the effect of the Labour party's policy. It will be interesting to discover how the listeners would receive  Mr.  Curtin's  proposal to compel them to accept only the programmes of his ' essentially and exclusively publicly-controlled ' stations ; and how the people engaged in the industry will view the prospect of having their businesses taken from them and turned into ' essentially and exclusively publicly-controlled ' undertakings ". 
. broadcasting must be essentially and exclusively a publicly controlled utility. 
This statement might well earn for the leader of the Federal Labour party the designation of " Radio Pirate No. 1 Then this somersaulting gentleman went on to explain that this did not mean that the Labour party would withdraw licences for B class stations if their continued operation was not inconsistent with public policy. 

 Silling suspended from 
 12.45 
 to 2.15 p.m. 

Having regard to the paramount importance of  wireless  broadcasting and the tremendous influence it can exert, broadcasting must be essentially and exclusively a public-controlled utility. 
After the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  had accused him of desiring to nationalize the B class stations by a radio steal on a large scale,  Mr. Curtin  found it necessary to explain his meaning, just as he did with his defence policy. He said that when the Labour party claimed^ that " Broadcasting must be essentially and exclusively a publiccontrolled utility", it did not mean that the party would withdraw B class stations from private companies. I shall show that the Labour party is endeavouring to toss a double-headed penny in connexion with the control of broadcasting. It is a political game of the thimble and the pea, a catch-as-catch-can contest with the radio stations as the prize.  Mr. Curtin  went on to say - 
The conduct by private companies was not inconsistent with public control. 
He tried to get away from the charge of attempted nationalization, because in the meantime he had received hundreds of telegrams of protest from B class operators throughout the Commonwealth. He continued - 
Since B class stations were licensed by the Postmaster-General's Department they were under some sort of public control just as hotels were. Control would continue to be exercised through the licence system. . 
I ask why the honorable gentleman, in this hand-book, says that broadcasting should be essentially and exclusively a public-controlled utility? I shall give the reasons. The policy of the Labour party in regard to broadcasting emanated from neither  Mr. Curtin  nor the caucus; it had a much more sinister origin. The policy is the echo of the fight between " Jock " Garden and John Thomas Lang for the control of station 2KY. It was because  Mr. Lang  was unable to bend "Jock" Garden to his will, and keep 2KY under the control of the New South Wales Labour party, that the policy of the Labour party in regard to broadcasting was formulated. 
Addressing Labour supporters at an Australian Labour party picnic at The Playground, George's River, yesterday.  Mr. J.  Beasley, M.P., said that if the Labour  party was returned to Federal power it would dissolve A class broadcasting control and reorganize the system of allotting B class licences. Nothing short of an absolute cancellation of B class licences and their re-allotment would suit the Labour- party, he said. 

 Mr. Beasley is the real Leader of the Labour party, because  Mr. Curtin  can- not govern without the assistance of the New South Wales group. In fact,  Mr. Curtin  cannot do anything without the approval of that group. When he was elected Leader of the party by a majority of one vote, not one member of the New South Wales section of the party voted for him. I emphasize that  Mr. Beasley's  statement was made recently - not three or four years ago, or even just before the alleged union of the two groups.  His  speech was delivered in December, 1936. He told his hearers that if the Labour party were returned to power it would cancel all B class licences and re-allot them to suit the Labour party. Is it any wonder that I classify  Mr. Curtin  as a second-hand dealer in words?  His  latest statement is an attempt to re-assure the B -class stations that it is not the intention of the Labour party to interfere with them, if returned to power. The Leader of the Opposition in this chamber said that the Labour party in Australia was attuned to the Labour party in New Zealand. The tuning-in must have produced a most discordant note, because in regard to defence the Labour party in Australia plays a tune entirely different from that played by the Labour party in New Zealand. But I take his words at their face value. It is reasonable to assume that, the Australian Labour party will advocate exactly the same policy as the New Zealand Labour party adopted when it obtained control of the broadcasting system. In that dominion the Labour party did not nationalize broadcasting. Oh no; it adopted a policy of peaceful penetration. It said' to the B class stations of New Zealand : " We will take only some of you over, and will leave some of you to operate under the control of private enterprise ". Those which were left to private enterprise were graded as C class stations - small stations of about 100 watts, capable of being heard over a radius of about 5 miles. Then it said to them that the stations under the control of the Government would enter the advertising field in competition with them. ' The result is that the pick of the B class stations in New Zealand are operated by the Government in competition with private enterprise in the broadcasting of advertisements. That is an effective way of achieving the nationalization of broadcasting. It, reminds us of the policy of the Labour party in regard to the control of private banking. Once Labour obtained control of the Commonwealth Bank, it would use the facilities provided by that institution to overthrow the private trading banks. If the Labour party gets into power at the forthcoming election, it will not cut off heads, but it will select for public control those B class stations which are most powerful and exercise the greatest influence, and give to them advertising rights. The B class stations in Australia are handling about 15 per cent, of the total advertising of the Commonwealth. If radio fell into the hands of a Labour government, there would be ruthless competition with the newspapers. When the Leader of the Opposition was speaking of the increase of monopolies, I asked him why he did not support the nationalization of newspapers instead of the nationalization of radio, but he sidestepped the question. Labour wants control of the air because .it believes that that will mean the control of the country. Its definite and deliberate policy - a policy inspired and controlled by the New South Wales Labour party - is to secure control of B class stations and to nationalize them along the lines that I have indicated. Is it any wonder that I describe the policy of the Labour party as the great radio steal? 
The Leader of the Opposition said that Australia's prosperity was not due to the Lyons Government. 
Some of the most interesting evidence that I have ever read was that submitted by the advocates of trades unions in the Federal Arbitration Court in support of an application for an increase of the basic wage. The Senate will remember that the unions asked for an increase of 12s. a week, and received 6s. The evidence submitted on behalf of the unions was in direct contrast to the remarks of the Leader of the Labour party in this chamber, and of its Leader in the House of Representatives. I myself have heard  Mr. Curtin  refer to the partial prosperity of the Commonwealth, and to-day the Leader of the Labour party in this chamber spoke of foodstuffs being wasted while many people are unable to get sufficient to eat. I have no doubt that, if the honorable gentleman repeats his activities in the Gwydir electorate, he will try to paint for the people a picture of unemployment - men standing idly at the street corners, factory machinery lying .idle, and prosperity still far off. The honorable gentleman would do well to compare his statements with those submitted to the Arbitration Court by the industrial wing of the Labour party. The comparison makes interesting reading. The remarks of  Mr. Crofts,  who was the leading advocate on behalf of the unions, show how wide is the gap between the policies of the industrial and the political wings of the Labour party.  Mr. Crofts  told the court that the case of the trade unions was based essentially on a comparison of present and past conditions. I have no quarrel with that, for it is all that we ask the electors of the Commonwealth to do. If the electors will compare present conditions with those of 1931, the parties constituting the Government will be prepared to stand or fall by their impartial judgment.  Mr. Crofts  said - 
On the question of the recovery of Australia nt the present juncture, I would like to quote from the  Economic  News  of January, 1937. 
That is not an imperialist publication, but one issued by the Queensland Labour Government.  Mr. Crofts  read the following extract from that publication: - 
Recovery has been consolidated and improved throughout Australia during the past year, and the new year opens with excellent prospects. It seems certain that export prices will continue to improve. Stocks are falling as consumption increases- 
After listening to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition to-day one would not think that consumption is increasing- 
Stocks are falling as consumption increases, and the vast expenditures on armaments are stimulating the markets. While apart from the new currency agreements the general world situation is anything but healthy, the immediate outlook for Australia is better than it has been since 1928. 
What is the reason for that ? If a Labour publication says that the immediate outlook for Australia is better than it has been since 192S, surely some credit should be given to the Lyons Government which has made that recovery possible. 
The degree of recovery in Australia baa been remarkable considering the depressed level of export prices until quite lately. 
A favourite argument of the Australian Labour party is that the Lyons Government was not responsible for the prosperity which is now enjoyed ; Labour spokesmen contend that it was brought about by the rise of export prices. Yet the advocate presenting Labour's case before the Commonwealth Arbitration Court admitted that export prices, which the Labour party says have been responsible for renewed prosperity in Australia, have risen only lately. The Lyons Government, however, has been in  office  since 1931, and export prices, unfortunately, did not begin to rise until about two years ago. The following table shows the value  per capita  of exports in Australian currency  of  or the last seven years : - 

<graphic href="154332193709083_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

Yet the Labour party to-day says that the only reason for the return of prosperity to this country is the increase of export prices. 

 Mr. Clarey will put the financial position of the Commonwealth as a whole before the court in an attempt to show the court that the economic position of Australia to-day is such that there is no need as the court did previously to worry about the budgetary position of Australia, no need to worry about the loans from overseas, no need to worry about the unemployed. 
But what a different story honorable senators tell in this Senate in their endeavours to boot the political football across the chamber. Judge Beeby then asked  Mr. Crofts  the following question: - 
What you want to convince the court is that there has been an economic recovery sufficient, not only to grant the restoration of (is., but something more? 
To which  Mr. Crofts  replied - 
Tes. That is our case . . . We propose to get it on record that the prosperity of this country is as great to-day as ever it was; that production is as great, and that there is nothing to worry about in the financial position of Australia. 
After listening to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  to-day one would come to the conclusion that Labour is worried about the financial position of the Commonwealth to-day. The honorable senator even endeavoured to indict the Government for its proposal to raise £2,500,000 by the issue of treasury-bills in London. Thus we have two voices of Labour, one endeavouring to woo the electors, and the other endeavouring to woo the judge.  Mr. Crofts  concluded his case by saying- 
The period from 1935-37 is from many standpoints, taking into consideration the sharpness of the decline from 1930-1932, probably one of the most spectacular recoveries from any economic depression that has been experienced in Australia. 
I submit to honorable senators that here is prima facie evidence of Australia's recovery. This is no political propaganda, but the evidence given in the Commonwealth Arbitration Court by Labour's own spokesmen in presenting their case foran increased basic wage for 500,000 unionists. Yet those statements are denied in this chamber by the supporters of the Labour movement. Is not that evidence of the use of a double-headed penny - of political chicanery intended to delude the people ? Undoubtedly it is, and I believe that when the full facts are placed before the people of Australia the Lyons Government will be returned with a greater majority. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Brand)  adjourned. 
.- It seems the right thing to say something about defence since that important subject fills many pages of the report on the Imperial Conference. During the course of my remarks, however, I do not propose to air my views on the best methods of defending Australia because I have already done so on other occasions. The fundamental principles of strategy and tactics - secrecy, surprise, early information, guarding lines of communication, concentration of superior strength at the right time and place, meeting the aggressor before he can lay waste your country - hold good now as in Hannibal's time. The remarkable scientific development of the instruments of war, even since the Great War, has not affected these principles one iota. Listening to the speeches on this subject in this chamber and in the House of Representatives one would think that there were no Australian officers capable of giving expert advice. Although  Sir John  Monash has passed on, there are at least two Australians,  Sir Harry  Chauvel and  Sir Brudenell  White, to whom the Government can turn for advice. During the Great War these three Generals of the Australian Imperial Forces stood head and shoulders above the majority of British and other dominion generals. Ten years ago an Imperial Defence College was established in London for educating senior officers of the navy, army  and air services in Imperial strategy. A very limited number of students is admitted for the year's course. Every alternate year, however, an Australian staff corps officer attends the course. Two of them, Major-General Lavarack and  Colonel "Wynter  have passed through the college with credentials equal to those of any British or other dominion students. These officers had the opportunity to study empire defence from every angle, and with that knowledge as a foundation, they are able to give expert advice to the Minister for Defence, particularly as they, like myself, are Australians and Australian minded; but they and the two senior generals I have mentioned are likely to get out of touch with the progress made in scientific defence preparations at the heart of the Empire and to be in the dark as to what progress a potential enemy has made or to what extent Britain can help the dominions ;n time of emergency. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence can, however, obtain this information first-hand confidentially at an Imperial Conference, as they undoubtedly did recently. Possessed of this information the Government has framed its defence policy, upon which it intends to stand or fall at the forthcoming elections. Every member of the Australian Imperial Forces knows how the Royal Navy and armed merchant ships protected Australia's overseas trade in 1914-18. It is, therefore, right that our small Australian navy should be brought up to something approaching the strength of armament and personnel of pre-war  days. Very few - the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  is one - knew the reason why, in September, 1914, the 37 New Zealand and Australian transports were held up day after day while 30,000 men were ready to embark. The two German cruisers, the  Scharnhorst  and  Gneisenau,  were prowling around in Australian waters, and transports dared not leave their berths. Then, within a few hours, embarkation and sailing orders were received, because our battle cruiser, H.M.A.S.  Australia,  the creation of the Labour party, had driven these enemy cruisers across the Pacific. Instead of human beings, these 37 transports might have been laden with wool and wheat, or other commodities which contribute to the wealth of this continent. History might repeat itself, so it is better to be on the safe side. 
The navy rightly claims the greater portion of this year's defence expenditure and the air force is well provided for, but the poor old army, which wins a nation's battles, is almost forgotten. Should Australia ever be in danger, a demand will surely arise for an efficient; mobile army. Unless the paltry six days training in camp is increased before then, I would not envy the generals who had to command troops. China to-day is fighting for its existence, not only with a. powerful up-to-date air force; that arm is backed up by an army of nearly 1,000,000 trained men. We cannot afford to let our nucleus army crumble. Who is the scoundrel or lunatic who wants another war? A visit to the Caulfield or Randwick Hospitals should silence any one so inclined. But " Safety first " is a good slogan; that is why all parties should support the Government's defence policy. 
I agree entirely with my colleague,  Senator Leckie,  that a complete survey of the capabilities of certain factories for turning out war material in time of emergency  should be speeded up, but he need not. get so " hot under tlie collar," because the Defence Department does not proclaim from the housetops its mobilization plans. 
I express the satisfaction that will be felt by riflemen -all over the Commonwealth when they know that the Government has made provision on this year's Estimates for the restoration of the full annual allowance of free ammunition, Mark VII., to effective members of rifle clubs. 
There is discontentment amongst superannuated Commonwealth public servants, whose pensions were restored entirely in November, 1933. From July, 1931, to November, 1933, in accordance with the Financial Emergency Act 1931, the Government's contribution to their superannuation pensions was reduced, but it was fully restored in November, 1933. It is claimed, and rightly so, that the Government had no right to make a reduction, which was a repudiation of the contract made by the 
Government with its public servants under the Superannuation Act of 1922. The Commonwealth superannuation system was framed by actuaries specially qualified for this class of business. It is a family annuity purchase, similar to that obtainable from leading life assurance societies, and no such society would think for a moment of breaking its contract with assured persons. When the Superannuation Act became operative, many public servants surrendered life assurance policies because they could not afford to contribute for superannuation benefits as well. In the early days of federation, a considerable number of State public servants transferred to the Commonwealth Public Service with State pension rights. When the Commonwealth Government, under the Financial Emergency Act, reduced the pensions of these transferred officers, .the High Court ruled that the Commonwealth Parliament had no power to do so. Why should not the same principle apply in respect of pensions under the Commonwealth Superannuation Act, and all public servants be placed on the same footing? In Great Britain, civil service pensions are non-contributory; yet during the period of very severe financial strain, these pensions were not reduced. Ex-Commonwealth public servants now on pension, and "those in the Service who are still contributing, fear that unless the Government redeems its liability in respect to reduced pensions during the period July, 1931- November, 1933, similar deductions may lie made for a longer period and to a greater extent in the future. The Government should honour its contractual obligations under the act, and so restore confidence by refunding the £57,000, which is estimated to be the amount of deductions made. At least 67 per cent, of those affected could not afford to take up more than four units, which represents a pension of £2 a week on retirement. The pensions of widows in this category were reduced by 4s. a week during the period mentioned. The individuals concerned in this appeal are the lower-paid officials, and their grievance ought to be removed without further delay. 
. -If the supporters of dictatorships in various parts of the world heard the froth and bubble of honorable senators opposite when dealing with vital problems they would be confirmed in their opinion that democracy is dead or, at least, moribund. Listening this morning to some of the views expressed by honorable senators opposite I came to the conclusion that there is a good deal in what the supporters of Fascism and dictatorships say, because it seems almost impossible to discuss problems properly, and with due cognizance of their effect upon the people, particularly when some honorable senators make such puerile statements. I was struck by the stupidity and puerility of  Senator Hardy's  reference to the Australian Labour Party's blue book and pensions, and I wondered if it is not possible in a legislature such as this to deal with important problems fairly, without having our minds solely on the elections. In view of the approaching political storm, it is perhaps difficult to remain calm and collected, to deal with each subject on its merits, and to give due consideration to the views of others. But I shall endeavour to deal dispassionately with the subjects which have been discussed during this debate. It is amazing that three members of the Opposition represent 47 per cent, of the electors, and that the other 33 senators represent only 53 per cent. 
The honorable senator knows that the Labour party platform provides for the abolition of the Senate, but while this chamber remains in existence I believe we should have some better system of representation. My mind reverts to bitter experiences that fell to my lot in the early days, merely because I held Labour, views. I was dismissed from various positions because I had the courage of my convictions. 1 know the bitterness that was engendered in the minds of those controlling industry against me and those who held similar political views. Many, like myself, had to suffer indignities and hardships because of the principles we espoused. To-day, some applaud the work of the Labour men of the past, but they  do not give to the Labour representatives of to-day credit for what they are endeavouring to do. We are told that the Labour party of to-day is different from the party of twenty years ago. The late  Mr. Andrew  Fisher, whose name has been mentioned, came from the ranks of the miners. He was dismissed from his employment, and for months found it impossible to get a job because of the political views he held. But the Labour movement has grown in strength, and those who would villify and destroy it cannot do so because of the power within the movement. When I first came to Australia I was told that those who supported a Labour policy were home despoilers,  wreckers of happiness, and men anxious to interfere with the religious solemnity of the marriage tie. Later when the war broke out, the Labour party was alleged to be under the heel of Germany, and to be accepting German gold. Still later it was Russian funds that were being placed to the credit of the Labour movement. To-day we have reached the stage where our good friend from the Riverina  (Senator Hardy)  allies us with the Communist party. I suppose he will tell the people of New South Wales, through that loud  speaker  of his, what a fearful party the Labour party is, because forsooth it has linked itself up with those horrible Communists, and destruction of all that stands for the national life of Australia will follow. Of course all these allegations are only so much political bunk, twaddle, puerility, stupidity and all the rest of it, but they have to be made in order to catch votes in our modern democracy. No wonder democracy is losing its power and strength, when men of high intelligence, as men should be who are sent to the highest legislature of the land as the representatives of the people, utter or believe such tarradiddles  and stupidities as we have had to listen to this morning. The Labour party is a political party with a political programme that every man and woman can read and understand. 
If that is true the honorable senator is not fit to be a representative of New South Wales in this chamber. Any man who aspires to be a senator should have the intelligence to understand the plain language of the Labour party's platform, and I do not believe the honorable senator when he says that he cannot understand it. We are a political party owing no allegiance whatsoever to any other political party. If any man wishes to join the Labour movement and to run as a candidate, he must sign the pledge which states, amongst other things - "I hereby declare that I am not a member of a Communist organization or party or any political party having objects and methods in any way opposed to the Australian Labour party." That is the pledge that we have to sign and it is unfair to fasten the Communists on to us. I do not wish to speak in a derogatory manner of any one. This is a free country and every one in it has the right to speak to his fellows if he so desires. He has also the right to organize a political party. We have the Country party, and we have the United Australia party, which has had about 20 different aliases ; we have the Labour party, and the Communist party, and also the Douglas Credit party. In fact we have two Country parties, one which supports  Mr. Dunstan  in Victoria, and the other which supports the United Australia party, the representatives of the big mortgage companies and the banks and the pastoralists. They and the United Australia party are linked up one with the other. I understand that the Country party in Victoria is more representative of the working class, but the Country party in this Parliament is closely allied with the money machine, the banking machine, the big commercial men and manufacturers of Australia. We have in this chamber direct representatives of the big companies, some of them directors of those companies. That, of course, is their own business. The section of the Country party which we have in the Senate is allied, not with the workers, but with those who dominate Australia financially. I expect that some day we shall see a change in the outlook of the farming community. Instead of closely allying themselves with those who exploit them the farmers will turn to the Labour movement and seek to better their conditions by closer alliance with the workers of the cities. Indeed, at the present time, we have in our ranks many working farmers. I am' pleased to know that our new senator, who evidently stands very high in Queensland's regard, is a working farmer, and from the age of fourteen has been a member- of our party. Quite a number of working farmers, as I say, are members of our party, and we hope, as time goes on, to see the farmers leaving the moneyed section, and the banking section, and the exploiting section, and transferring their allegiance to those who are seeking to improve the lot of the producers. The Communist party has a perfect right to organize, but we say to it " We do not desire your attachment. Four members have the right as citizens of Australia to preach your doctrines so long as you keep within the law. You have the right to organize any of the people, and to ask for their votes, but "we as a party say that any one who wants to belong to our party must give full and complete allegiance to it." As a matter of fact the Communist party has opposed the Labour party, and to-day in Queens.land. Communist candidates are running against our nominees. Judging by the voting cards that are distributed near the polling booths at election times, the Communist party has on many occasions advised its supporters to vote for the United Australia party and the Country party. However, that is their business, but I think it is grossly unfair and ungentlemanly on the part of those who occupy the Government benches to accuse the Labour party of an alliance with the Communists. They go their way, and we go ours. We believe in our programme, and we believe that the carrying out of it will be for the benefit of the mass of the people of Australia if we obtain control of the Government. We are entitled to that belief, whilst the Government is entitled to show clearly and explicitly, if it can, in what way our programme is not for the benefit of Australia. But, for goodness sake, let us be honest, gentlemanly and intelligent, and discuss the issue fairly and squarely. 
As regards pensions, no member of our party will deny the facts. As I said the other day,- we are delighted that some measure of restitution has been made to the old-age pensioners, and that the Government at long last has seen fit to restore the payments to the full rate. In replying to  Senator Hardy,  whom I call the Vicar of Bray, I would point out that such reforms as have been made are due to the pressure, the organization, the activity and the propaganda of Labour. I refer honorable senators to the little blue book in regard to the institution of the pension system. I hope every senator will shortly have a copy of that book in his possession.  Senator Hardy  referred to it. [ wish to assure him that it has only one edition, and that there is no such thing as an expurgated edition, or a second, third, fourth or fifth edition. It was sent to the printer and issued, and  Senator Hardy  should have the courtesy as a gentleman to accept our assurance that there has been no expurgation _of it. If we had the money, we should be delighted to issue a sufficient number to enable every elector to read it. I make bold to say that it will be read with a greater measure of understanding and appreciation than was the case with the book which the Government issued to every elector on the referendum, and which, very few electors read. I am certain that honorable senators on the Government side will read this little blue book avidly. I hope it will do them a world of good, because if they speak the truth on the platform, they will be able to tell the electors some of the things which are in it. 

 Senator Hardy has told the chamber one side of the story with regard to pensions. Now let me tell what the little blue book says about it. On page 65 of the book, which is entitled "Why Australia should vote out the Lyons Government, " under the caption of " Pensions, Labour responsible for first pensions act. " it says - 
The first Commonwealth Old-age Pensions Act was introduced in 1908. Although Labour was not in power at the time, being only a small party, it held the balance of power between two other parties. Having such .power it forced the Deakin Government to make provision for old-age pensions, agreeing if it did so to allow the Government to remain in office. 

 Senator Allan MacDonald laughs, but I believe that to be a true statement of the origin of old-age pensions in Australia. I was in Canada at the time, but from, what I learn from  Mr. Blackburn,  M.P., who recently published a number of typewritten sheets on the subject, and who is an honorable man, the introduction of old-age pensions was due to the fact that the Labour party in the Federal House at that time used its influence,because it held the balance of power, to exact from the Deakin Government this measure of reform. On the 3rd June, 1908, a speech was made by  Senator Mulcahy  of Tasmania, who was a member of what was then called the Liberal party. Certainly he was an anti-Labour man, but he left no doubt as to who was responsible for the old-age pension. This is what he said - 
I am prepared to give the Labour party every credit in the matter, and I assert that if a scheme for the establishment of an oldage pension is approved, the whole of the credit willbe due to the Labour party and not to the Government. 
That is an answer to  Senator Hardy  out of the mouth of a gentleman who was a member of the anti-Labour forces. Surely Ministers and government supporters must admit the sincerity, force and power of the reform movement which was headed by the Labour party. Surely they can give the Labour party credit for the good work it did in bringing about the institution of that admirable social service. It should be said again that the Lyons Government, through the mouth of its leader, did make a definite promise to return to the oldage pensioners that which was taken from them partly at the instigation of the then Opposition, of which the present Prime Minister was Leader. Yet when the finances allowed of a restoration of pensions being made, the Government continued to remit taxes to . an inordinate degree, and the poor old-aged pensioners lost several millions of pounds through the Government not fulfilling its pledge. I say that, because I believe it to be true. I take the words of  Mr. Lyons,  when he was Leader of the Opposition, and I read into them that which I think he himself meant to be read into them. I am not introducing any extraneous matter; I am simply giving his words in good, plain English. 
Yes. My leader this morning told the Senate that in 1932 taxes were remitted, but pensioners did not get any benefit from the Government's financial policy, although the drastic provisions relating to pensioners' property, which had worried many old people into their graves, were repealed. 
It is well known that the property provisions inflicted much hardship on pensioners, and as the result of much pressure and agitation, the Lyons Government in 1932 repealed those obnoxious sections. 
I admit that I have a good imagination; otherwise I should be very much bored by some of the puerilities uttered in this chamber by the honorable senator. I have also a sense of humour and in fancy I have seen  Senator Dein  even leading a government and becoming a powerful force in the community. But that was pure imagination, I admit. 
I come now to the much lauded state of prosperity in the Commonwealth. No sensible person will deny that there has been substantial improvement in recent years; but when political bombasts among Government supporters attribute to Labour members statements which they have never made, it is our duty to emphasize some of the facts of the economic situation. Our opponents utter these misrepresentation's in the hope that they will capture additional votes at the next elections, and since it is the custom, so I understand, to allow every man condemned to death a choice of food and drink during the last few remaining hours of his life, I suppose that, on the same principle, our political opponents who are condemned to political death at the next election, may be pardoned if they enjoy themselves for the few remaining days of their career. 
Of course I am. 1 am sometimes amused at the claims made by ministerial supporters that the present prosperity is due to the legislation and administration of this Government. They indulge in what I may term political " Coue-ism declaring tha't, thanks to the prescience and benevolence of this Government, day by day and in every way things are getting better and better. I suppose that there are among Government supporters some earnest and experienced mcn who feel that they are rendering a service to the country by keeping the present Government in office and discharging the duties that fall to .their lot. But we have to deal with , realities, and although I dislike to disabuse their minds, the truth is that throughout the world lately there has been an increase of relative prosperity, and Australia, being one of the world economic units, is enjoying its share. I do not think that the Prime Minister or even the Minister for Commerce would deny the truth of this statement. 
The Treasurer  (Mr. Casey),  when introducing his budget recently, mentioned with much obvious pleasure that we had emerged from the valley of despair and were now in the glorious sunlight of prosperity. Had I been Treasurer in similar circumstances, possibly I should have employed the same flowery phrases. But the Treasurer is not always in such an optimistic mood. He does not  often unload such an oratorical gem on a listening House. A week or two earlier, writing in the privacy of his study - at a time when he was not in the excited atmosphere of a political crowd which, in the opinion of Le Bon, a wellknown psychologist, would include the House of Representatives - he made the following statement in an article which appeared in the Brisbane  Courier Mail - 
Those who put something aside might, with prudence, do so. The rainy day will come with certainty. At present we are fortunate  m  having in general, a world eager to give vis good prices for our exports. But how far is the present price of wool and metals, due to the great concentration on armaments through out the world, and how long will it continue? How far is the failure of the wheat crops in other parts -of the world responsible for our wheat farmers getting their present high prices for wheat? 
There we see the Treasurer in a different mood. 
Of course he was. Whilst the Treasurer, no doubt, felt uplifted when he delivered his budget speech, and whilst his listeners may have agreed with him about the rising tide of prosperity, we must not be carried away with the idea that we have reached a stage in our internal economy when we can afford to ignore the possibility of dangers ahead of us. It is not always wise to be satisfied with the existing financial situation. We should take to heart the Treasurer's advice and put -something aside for a rainy day. So far we have had little evidence of such prudence on the part of the Government, although there is no certainty that this country may not once more be plunged into the dark valley of depression. 
Evidently the honorable gentleman holds that belief. 
On the contrary, if a Labour government is returned it will work in close co-operation with the Labour Government in New Zealand. The social legislation which has been introduced in that country will be the pattern for the Australian Labour government, which would have for its objective the overcoming of the forces of evil that are responsible for economic depression. I would remind  Senator Allan  MacDonald that within the last few months some of the leading thinkers ofthe world have become perturbed at the prospect of depression when the present re-armament programmes have been completed. They fear that the world will then plunge into another economic slump. I have here a statement by  Mr. D.  R. 
Hobson, the city editor of the London  News Chronicle - 
There is a lot of discussion going on now amongst bankers and economists on the probability of a trade slump developing, and whether it is possible to prevent it. 
A recognized English authority on economics,  Mr. J.  M. Keynes, has considered the possibility under the existing capitalistic system of averting another slump. He belongs to the school which believes that slumps may be avoided by discontinuing a policy of public "works in times of comparative prosperity. He suggests that when the economic system has recovered sufficiently from a depression, governments should begin to close down on public works. He says - 
Local authorities should postpone all public works. This would diminish the demand for such capital goods as bricks and cement and steel girders at a time when private housing and  re-armament  are taking huge amounts of such products. 
According to  Mr. Keynes,  the construction of public works when there is also a demand for capital goods by private enterprise creates huge plants and capital goods which are not required when another depression comes, with the result that thousands of workers are thrown on the industrial scrap-heap. That policy, which overlooks the need to reorganize society, is wrong, because it merely attempts to divide the present poverty, thereby making it more difficult for men to obtain work. The advocates of that policy see the curve of employment rising in times of prosperity, and then sinking low in times of a depression, and they believe in maintaining it at a mean level, by reducing the prosperity curve and lifting the depression curve. That is the idea of some men who are giving thought to this problem. 
Evidently  Senator Arkins  believes in taking away something in good times so that men may be given more in other times. That is absurd. In order to safeguard the existing financial system with its exploitation, the honorable senator would close down on public works so that, in the future, a few of the men now put out of employment may find work in other directions. Among government supporters there are many who advocate a curtailment of public works. The Labour movement is concerned that, even in spite of the prosperity claimed by the Government^ there are 200,000 workers unemployed in Australia to-day. 
At the moment, I am not concerned with comparisons; I am merely saying that there are 200,000 men out of work, to say nothing of the many thousands of boys and girls who-are looking for jobs. 
That may be, but the fact remains that there is always a large army of men out of work, who would not be unemployed if there were more scientific organization in the economic realm. It is wrong to advocate a slowing up of the public works policy in order to lessen the effect of a future slump. 
I agree with the honorable senator, who, himself, is applying his brains to some of the problems confronting this country. Despite the cold reception sometimes given to his remarks by supporters of the Government, I admire the honorable senator for trying to show the need for obtaining the fullest information in order that essential reforms may be instituted. Unfortunately, many honorable senators are not prepared to discuss these matters intelligently. They prefer to talk a lot of blather and blurb in ali attempt to score off one another. I do not want to be accused, of merely abusing the other side and of having no constructive suggestions to put forward. The Labour party says that, in a community in which hundreds of thousands of men are out of work, it should be possible to utilize the services of those men to increase the total production. I would not support any political party whose object was simply to average booms and depressions, and which was not prepared to take legislative action to increase the total production of the community. In New Zealand, as the result of the policy of the Savage Labour Government, there  lias been an. increase of production, and practically every person in the community, including the farmers, has shared in the benefit. 
That may be; but it is a successful one. There is much that we can learn from other countries; it matters not whether we learn from New Zealand, the United States of America, Germany, Italy, or even despised Russia. I believe that we should take cognizance of the legislative action of other countries, and its effect on their economic development. If the effect be- good, we should have sufficient sense to use similar methods in this country. 
It is preferable that an effort should be made to improve the production of a country rather than that its people should be content merely to divide the total poverty of the community. If we were strong enough to utilize the power of Parliament on a national scale, f am convinced that the total production of commodities in Australia could be increased, thereby eliminating many of the troubles which arise out of economic poverty. 
Yesterday  Senator Arkins  applauded the action of the Government in placing a vital product under the control of a manufacturer of gelatine. That action illustrates my point. If such production is necessary, it should be controlled by the Government, and not handed over to a private manufacturer. Let me give another simple illustration. The standardization of the railway gauges of Australia would be a good tiling for this country, as would also the building of arterial roads, which  Senator Arkins  so eloquently advocated yesterday. 
It is part of the policy advocated on the hustings; but it is not the policy that the Govern ment has carried out. I was endeavouring to answer the honorable senator's interjection by giving an instance of how, by the utilization of the unemployed, we could 'standardize our railway gauges, and build arterial roads, thereby making Australia safer from a defence point of view, and also a more' complete economic unit. Cannot honorable senators . conceive of many means whereby we could utilize the. national machinery of this country, both financial and industrial, to the end that we could improve the economic system as we know it and make it more prolific, thus eliminating poverty. 
I am suggesting that this country, if it saw fit to adopt certain financial reforms, could utilize the labour of this country through the medium, in the first place, of the financial system I visualize, for the purpose of improving the economic position and increasing total production. At present any attempt to increase total production is left almost entirely to private enterprise, and we know that private enterprise in the past has failed to employ our people and make available that purchasing power which is essential to the absorption of the goods which we so abundantly produce. Has any major national action been taken by this Government during the last six years that has had for its objective an increase of the power of the community to produce and distribute essential goods? I challenge honorable senators opposite to point to one instance of such an endeavour. 
I am not at all envious of the Commonwealth balance-sheet which the Government has just placed before the people of Australia. While some people may be jubilant about the .last budget, it seems to me that they must also ask themselves what action the Government has taken to offset the grave possibility of another depression which many thinkers say will shortly overtake us. 
 I desire to confine my remarks to the budget-papers which have recently been presented, and which  are closely allied to the Supply Bill. There is an old saying that " government is finance and finance is government ". The presentation of the budget-papers in this chamber gives us an opportunity to discuss the collection of moneys from the taxpayers for which the Government is responsible. To get an index to the financial position of an individual, one naturally goes to his banking account ; to arrive at the financial position of any country we have only to examine its budget-papers. While few, if any, of us are competent to take budget-papers page by page, and with actuarial accuracy sum up the financial position they reveal, all of us can peruse them and form our own conclusions as to whether revenue has been collected and disbursed fairly. The first thing that strikes one in the budget-papers' recently tabled is the immensity of our public debt. In spite of sinking-fund contributions amounting during the last few years to no less than £75,000,000 the public debt of Australia is still increasing to an appalling extent. We can console ourselves, however, with the fact that the budget is a remarkable trading account of our country. If we could express in figures the value of the natural resources of this great country, and the value of its public buildings and works, and put them on the credit side of the ledger, the enormous total would prove that Australia, despite its huge national debt, is still quite solvent. Given the continuance of sound government, such as has been experienced in the last six years, I have no doubt that we can not only maintain our present position, but also improve it considerably. The Treasurer  (Mr. Casey),  in his introductory remarks on the bill now before the Senate, spoke of the favorable position we occupy and of the prosperity we enjoy. In fact the honorable gentleman went so far as to say that the measure of prosperity enjoyed by Australia at the present time is greater than at any other time in its history; and he quoted statistics to support that contention. I do not propose to dispute his figures because I have no doubt he could further substantiate them with figures of employment, banking, trade, &amp;c. ; but I say unhesitatingly that at least one section of the community has enjoyed much less prosperous" conditions than the people of Australia generally, particularly since the financial and economic depression of recent years. A few days ago when the .Senate was discussing the .States' Grants Bill, a good deal was heard about the position of the claimant States. The section to which I refer is composed of the primary producers, particularly in the claimant States. After all, the primary producers are responsible for the prosperity which we enjoy to-day; it has been because of the high prices received for export commodities that national recovery has taken place Those who know the primaryproducers and who move among them, know that very little of the proceeds of their production goes into their own pockets. The greater part of the wealth which they produce is used to make up the leeway in our liabilities incurred during the years of the depression. A continuance of the high export prices that have  been experienced recently is needed for at least three or four years before primary producers generally will be placed in the position which they enjoyed in predepression times. .Some of them, however, will never return to that position, whilst, others have already fallen by the wayside.1 I do not want it to be thought that I am unmindful of what the Government has done for these people; at the same time, I contend that they were entitled to everything they got. It is advisable that the plight of the primary producers should be constantly brought before the public generally, because by a great many people they are regarded merely as hewers of wood and drawers of water. The people of Australia should be brought to ;i realization of the fact that the primary producers are our best money-spinners. In order to show that the Government, has done much for the primary producers - I think it has done more than any other Commonwealth Government - I propose to quote figures from the budget regarding the assistance granted to primary producers. I find on page 72 of the budget papers that the Government has handed to the primary producers of Australia during its period of office £21,636,073. exclusive of £2,500,000 handed to the States for farmers' debt adjustment. Of the former amount £5,554,926, or nearly 25 per cent., was allotted to my own State. For that I am very grateful. 
I desire now to say a word or two regarding the recent referendum. "When we passed through this Parliament a bill authorizing the taking of a referendum in an effort to protect the primary producers of Australia, it was found that considerable pu'blicity was given to propaganda designed to cover up the real issue or cloud it with as many extraneous subjects as possible. The principal stalking horse employed by the opponents of the proposed amendment was the greed of the Commonwealth Government. The result of the referendum is well known, and it cannot be denied that the primary producers did not receive a fair deal from the people. During the depths of the depression between 1929 and 1934, Australia had uo credit at all on the other side of the world, and it has only been due to the efforts of the primary producers that our credit overseas has been restored. The returns from the sale of our primary produce overseas maintained Australia's solvency, and upheld our prestige in the eyes of the world. During the depression the producers of wool, wheat, meat, dried and canned fruit, butter, and cheese conducted their operations uninterruptedly and disposed of their products overseas, but not at a profit. Primary producers worked, not 40hours a week but very often 120-hours a week, and many have to depend upon the assistance of their wives aud families in order to retain their holdings. But what happened when the electors were asked, by means of a referendum to afford them some protection? Prices had recovered, and many had al most forgotten the depression. An adverse vote was recorded and the primary producers were without any effective security. 
I cannot refute that statement, and I do not think that the honorable senator can substantiate it.We know that a large number of primary producers may have voted against the Government's proposals; but as I have said they were misled by others. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Yes, but many of those who reside in country districts are not primary producers. 
Having regard to the fact that our secondary industries are effectively safeguarded by means of the customs and excise duties, it is only right that the primary producers also should be afforded protection. On page 25 of the budget papers it is stated that customs and excise duties cost every man, woman and child in Australia £6 10s. or £43,000,000 per annum. That is the price the Australian people are paying for the protection of our secondary industries, and the amount is not decreasing. We have been told that customs duties on certain commodities have been reduced, but the Austraiian people are now paying practically £2 per annum more in customs and excise duties than they were paying in 1931. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Yes, but it does not assist them to the extent that it should. An excise duty on flour, costing the people approximately 4s. a head, was said to be an unjust tax. The workers, through the Arbitration Court, and also by means of the tariff, are assured of a reasonable wage, and the primary producer also should receive sufficient to maintain himself and his family in reasonable comfort. 
We have been assured that the Government intends to introduce a national insurance scheme to assist the unemployed, invalids and the aged, and generally those unable to provide for the time when they will be unable to work; but even that scheme makes no provision for primary producers. A man who works arduously on a farm until he reaches the age when he can no longer work, will have to claim an oldage pension because he cannot benefit under a national insurance scheme. I believe in national insurance, but primary producers also should, in common with other sections of the community, be assisted. Why should they be the only persona who have to appeal to the Government as mendicants, particularly when they produce the wealth on which the stability of the country depends? 
According to the figures disclosed in the budget papers, this Government has proved itself to be a National government. All sections of the community suffered severely during the depression, and appeals were made to governments for assistance. As soon as Australia began to emerge from the depression, governments realized that it was their duty to restore the salaries and wages of public servants to their former level. A few days ago Parliament passed a bill in which provision was made for the restoration of the pension rate to £1 a week. I do not propose to enter into a controversy on pensions at this stage, because, unfortunately, the subject is used unduly for political purposes. But salaries and wages reduced  during  the depression having been restored, pensioners also were entitled to share in the returning prosperity. An aged or invalid person without income must find it difficult to maintain  himself or herself on £1 a week, and pensioners should be paid a sum sufficient to enable them to purchase the necessaries of life. I regret to find that the 'index figure has been removed from the pensions table, because it has been particularly useful in Arbitration Court cases when a living wage has been under consideration; but as the measure passed through both branches of the legislature without demur from those who are closely associated with the pensions problem, perhaps the omission is not of great importance. I agree to a large extent with the alarm expressed by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  in respect of the increased expenditure on pensions. A few days ago I read a carefully calculated actuarial record of the extent to which the Commonwealth is likely to be involved if pensions continue to be paid at the present rate. This document sets out that in 1977 - 40 years hence - the pensions bill of the Commonwealth will be approximately £40,000,000. Despite that fact, I make no apology for assisting to restore the pension to the original rate of 20s. weekly, particularly as I claim to be an advocate of our standard of living. While I believe that every man, woman and child in Australia should be properly fed, clothed and housed, I can not favour a rate of pension lower than that at present paid because in doing so I would be advocating a lower standard of living for these people. I trust that the adoption of a national insurance scheme  will result in a decrease of the expenditure on pensions. 
The Government has. assisted various industries by the payment of bounties, and, although some have been reduced, such bounties assist not only the industries concerned but also are of benefit in developing primary industries and increasing the sale of our products overseas. If our overseas markets are to  be  developed, the Government must cooperate with the exporters aud render every assistance in the selling of primary produce abroad. 
During the last few years unemployment has been an important feature of our economic life, but on the figures now before us that evil is almost at vanishing point. This- should give governments an opportunity to attend more fully to the employment of youths. Such employment is essential, but the training of youths is of even greater importance, so that they may gradually take the place of skilled tradesmen who drop out of the ranks. It is the duty of all governments to revise their arbitration laws, especially those sections dealing with apprentices. At present , the law provides that a certain proportion of apprentices may be employed, but there should be statutory provision that every industry employing a certain number of hands shall also employ  a  specified number of apprentices. That would soon correct the shortage of skilled labour which prevails to-day. 
I appreciate the action of the Government in increasing the apportionment to the States from the petrol tax ; South Australia will receive an additional £70,000. Large sums of money are required in that State for roads - not bitumen speedways, but roads to enable producers to transport their produce to the railway. Although my ideas are not in accord with many of those whom I represent, I believe that while the States' share of the  petrol tax is being expended in constructing and maintaining roads, no serious objection to the tax can be offered. I  have  been driving a motor car for 27 or 28 years and I say confidently that it  is  cheaper to-day to run a motor car on  the  good roads that are provided, than  it  was when petrol could be purchased  at.  one half of its present price. 
I am pleased to see an amount of £36,000 on the Estimates in relation to  the  League of Nations. The benefit of  the  League to the peoples of the world  was  so well put to this chamber some  time  ago by the Leader of the Senate, that  I  need not comment on it. If any one wishes to know why the League of Nations is required, he has only to turn up the statement made by  Senator Pearce  on that occasion to satisfy himself that the establishment of the League was for the benefit of humanity. It has partially failed to live up to the high ideals of its founders, but we must not forget that the old tradition of " Might is Eight " which has been  growing  up for thousands of years cannot be swept away in one decade. The League has been established, and, if  it  went out of existence now, it would  have  to he reconstructed from the foundations, should we ever desire to revive it. It is, in my opinion, the only genuine effort the world has even made to secure collective peace, and I hope it will continue and eventually yield beneficial results. 
.- I. have listened this afternoon to some interesting speeches, and it is somewhat difficult to make a contribution  that  will break fresh ground. I do not intend to make anything like an election speech, such as I heard from  tha  other side of the chamber earlier today. T regret that  Senator Collings,  the Leader of the official Labour party  in  this chamber, destroyed the effect that his speech might have had on me, by speaking in such a loud tone, and making so much noise, that at times, T was unable to distinguish what he said. He is always anxious to belittle, as far as he possibly can, anything which may be done by his political opponents, who to-day form the Government of the country. I wish he could learn to cultivate a more generous mind and admit that, on the face of them the budget speech and the Estimates prove conclusively that this country has reason to be thankful for the circumstances which brought about the change of government some six years ago. One cannot help realizing the totally different condition  of  affairs to-day as compared with what obtained then. I do not suggest that all the advantages we have gained during the last six years have been due to the administration of the Lyons Government, but I do say that the change of government at that time  was  most opportune, because it brought about overseas almost immediately a restoration of confidence in Australia. Without that confidence on the part of those upon whom we have to depend to a great extent Australia would be in a very bad way indeed. That was the first good result from the change of government. Things have gradually become better, and to-day we have the satisfaction of seeing an Australia practically back to the normal prosperous conditions which obtained prior to 1929. I am not here as a spokesman for the Lyons Administration, but speak as a senator helping to represent a very important portion  of  this vast Commonwealth. I propose later to make some remarks which I hope will be taken by the representatives of the  Government  in this chamber in the most kindly spirit, with a view to enabling that portion of the Commonwealth to become, as it can be, a very great helper to the rest of the nation. 
I wish to refer to something said a little  while  ago about the enormous public debt that  Ave  in Australia have incurred. Certainly the debt is very great, but I wish the electors of Australia to draw a distinction between the total Australian debt and the actual Commonwealth debt. Time after time, in my peregrinations throughout Australia, I have heard denunciations of the Lyons Government for  allowing  the debt to increase in the way it has, whereas the fact is as disclosed by the budget papers, that the Commonwealth debt has been reduced by £11,000,000 during the last few years. Instead of it being heavier, it is  considerably  lighter than it was. At the  same time, the national debt of the States and the Commonwealth combined has increased by £80,000,000. If honorable senators on the other side of the chamber were candid in this matter, they would endeavour to disabuse the minds of those upon whom they depend for election of the error that most people fall into in that regard. ' The States have their own boat to row. They know probably better than the Commonwealth Government does what is essential to develop their territories, because of their individual State peculiarities, and although the national debt, on paper, seem3 very large, it is possible that an inquiry, which would have to be a lengthy one, to estimate the actual value of the assets of Australia as compared with the national debt of the Commonwealth and States combined, would show a substantial credit balance. 
We have a very large debt, but that should give us no cause for worry if we are satisfied that, on the other side of the ledger, we have assets which will more than cover the indebtedness. If it had not been for the borrowing policy of the States of Australia - and remember that the Commonwealth did not enter the field of borrowing to any extent worth mentioning until the great world war began, and then was compelled to do so - practically no development would have occurred in these vast territories. Australia could be developed only by money obtained by loan. We did not have sufficient people here to furnish the necessary revenue for the purpose. We could not borrow locally as the necessary amount of cash was not available in Australia and so we had to rely on borrowing overseas. Who would suggest that the little island State of Tasmania which I represent would have developed as it has, and became an eye-opener to many other portions of the Commonwealth, without a borrowing policy? I do not believe in rash borrowing, but a loan policy may be necessary for the States for many years to come. If the policy is controlled, and a thorough investigation made of the objects on which the money is proposed to be spent, to ensure that expenditure is only on works which will be productive, either indirectly or directly, and for the well being of the Commonwealth, then that borrowing policy is a wise one. 
I wish to stress here, that the people of Tasmania, especially the fruitgrowing section, are most grateful to the Commonwealth Parliament and Government for the assistance that has been given over the past three years to Tasmania's greatest primary industry. The fruit-growing industry which, as I said before, represents the finest example of closer settlement to be found in any part of the Common wealth was flourishing, but during the last ten years or more through the development of the same industry in other countries and on the mainland of Australia, it has been seriously handicapped and embarrassed. The markets which were available some years ago in the old country had to bo shared with the produce of other countries, and the fact that we in Australia, have been producing, especially during the last two or three years, considerably greater quantities of apples and pear? than were produced hitherto, has tended to make it more difficult to carry on the industry satisfactorily. For this reason the aid that has been given to it during the last few years has been very welcome. D urine; this last year we expected, particularly as regards Tasmania, that on account of the Coronation celebrations in the United Kingdom, the returns of the industry would be much more satisfactory than they had been in the previous year, but unfortunately these anticipations have not been realized, and the industry to-day finds itself compelled to seek continued assistance from the federal Parliament. Those who have been entrusted with making out the case for the continuation of that assistance have shown very clearly the urgent necessity for at least as much help to be provided this year as was provided last year. Unfortunately, and I use that term advisedly, we find in the proposals for assistance this year, that the bounty has been cut down to  £50,000,  as compared with £85.000 last year. Any one reading the budget papers might conclude that some additional assistance is to be granted owing to the fact that the Government.  lias arranged with the shipping organizations for a reduction of freight by 3d. a case, but I would remind the Ministry that that reduction will not apply till the 1938 season. Consequently, the reduction that has been secured in freight can have no application to the season which has just closed, in respect of which the amount of £50,000 is being provided by the Government. I have here letters which I have received from various sources in Tasmania, one from an organization which practically docs not control the industry, but has been formed for the purpose of helping it, and the other two from persons engaged in the industry as a means of livelihood. These letters show to me conclusively that none of the statements which have been made recently to the Government by delegations which have come from Tasmania to the mainland to plead the cause of the orchardists has been at all exasperated. The figures that have been submitted to me, compiled from statistics available in Tasmania, through the State Fruit Board" of Tasmania, show clearly that the last season, instead of being profitable, has been, for many individuals, disastrous. This year, for the first time, the quota system was established and made operative for the whole of the export season. T understand that the Government had the impression that, because a large quantity of fruit had been sold f.o.b., the industry was not in need of the same amount of assistance this year as formerly. It was easy for the Government, to fall into this error, but I may explain that although a large quantity was sold f.o.b., it was not allowed to be exported because of the quota system. Consequently, growers are just as much in need of assistance this year as ever they were. Let me cite the case of an individual grower in order that the Senate may understand the position. If, for instance, I sold, in January or February, 3.000 cases of apples to an agent for a British buyer at a certain price, and then applied for my quota for export, I would be informed that it would be only 800 cases, so I would have on my hands 2,200 cases which I could not export. Consequently, my only revenue on overseas sales would be the return from the 800 cases allotted to me. Hundreds of growers are in that position this year, and approximately 500,000 cases of apples were withheld from the overseas market. I hope that the Government will realize the need for an investigation of the entire position in order that, by supplementary legislation, the financial aid to be given to the industry this year will he equivalent to that of last year. If this is done, the growers will be able to face the 1938 season with some confidence. Without this assistance, they will find it difficult to carry on, despite the freight reduction of 3d. a case, because this advantage is more than offset by an increase of 100 per cent, in the cost of wrapping paper, an increase of 3£d. each for pine cases, and corresponding increases of other charges which, it is estimated, will cost the industry an additional £78.000 on the export quota alone. The continuance of the industry will be an advantage to the shipping companies interested in this trade, but, if the industry suffers,  a3  it may unless the Government comes to its assistance, there will be fewer overseas vessels calling at Tasmanian ports, and consequent loss of revenue. I urge the Government to do what is possible to help this important industry^ which is the best example of closer settlement in any of the British dominions. If the growers are forced to abandon the industry, at, least 80 per cent, of the land under orchard cultivation will be useless for other purposes. 
I publicly express my appreciation of the practical interest shown by the Government in a proposal to establish the shale oil industry in Tasmania. I personally thank Ministers for the promptness with which the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  took this matter up when the necessary information was furnished to him on behalf of the Adelaide Oil Exploration Company, which made a request for the introduction, duty free, of essential machinery which has been manufactured recently in the United States of America. If the request had followed the usual course, if departmental inquiries had not been expedited, and if, in addition, the United Kingdom Government had offered opposition, as it was entitled to do, the proposal to establish  this new industry in Tasmania would not have been advanced to its present stage. But, thanks to the active interest of the Minister for Trade and Customs and the compliance of the British Government with a request to waive the right of the United Kingdom manufacturers to insist upon an inquiry as to whether the machinery, estimated to cost £140,000, could be manufactured in the Mother Country, the company is in a position to proceed with the project. Unfortunately, a temporary hitch has occurred in the negotiations with the Tasmanian Government over the leases for certain land, which contain the shale deposits ; but I hope the company and the Government will be able to come together at an early date, and that the negotiations for the establishment of the industry will be completed without loss of time. 
There has been some severe criticism in this debate of the Government's attitude to the censorship of books introduced into Australia. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  was particularly severe. I assume there is general agreement that some censorship is necessary. If  Senator Collings  takes the view that there is no need for censorship, I oan understand his attitude. He told us that books which are published and circulated in Great Britain should be permitted to Australia without censorship. I know that the honorable senator was not referring to indecent literature, but to political works which are printed and have free circulation in the Mother Country. I have taken a good deal of interest in this matter. 1 have read nearly everything I could obtain relating to the objective of the Anti-Censorship League, and I was surprised to discover that many of my friends, very worthy individuals indeed, are members of that body. Knowing them so well, I feel sure that if they had read some of the books which I have seen, they would never have become members of a league which advocates the free admission to Australia of all literature printed and circulated in the United Kingdom. 
That question does not touch my point. 
If the honorable senator were a family man I am sure he would be the last person in the world to allow his children to read some of the books which are introduced into Australia by the thousand. I speak on this matter as one who believes that literature of the kind which I have in mind should not be accessible to young Australians. Many of the books which are in circulation here would ruin them morally; many others would tend to encourage the breaking down of those principles which we hold dear in Australia. I am referring particularly to some of the Communist literature which occasionally is in circulation here. 
Yes, but in Great Britain I have seen things which I should be very sorry to see in Australia. I know that the honorable senator desires that this kind of literature should have free circulation in Australia, and I can very well understand why the general opinion is that Labour is being allied to the Communists. The fact that he and. his colleagues favour the introduction of this kind of literature without censorship, encourages that belief. 
Has not the honorable gentleman read some of the literature to which I am referring? 
The Leader of the Opposition knows very well that the Communist literature, which I have in mind, encourages the establishment of Communist cells in Australian factories and workshops. 
I thought that the honorable gentleman read practically everything that related to public affairs. As I am not speaking without knowledge, I ask the Leader of the Opposition to read some of this Communist literature, and then tell us if he thinks it should be allowed free circulation in Australia. 
This declaration by the Leader of the Opposition is new and very refreshing, because on other occasions I have heard him denounce in the most scathing language many things that have been done in Great Britain. He has told the Senate about his experiences as a boy in Great Britain, and has denounced some of the laws of the Mother Country. But apparently in regard to censorship he prefers to believe that everything that the Mother Country does is right and proper. The Leader of the Opposition, referring to a speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  in Queensland, said that the right honorable gentleman spoke in unduly high terms of the prosperity of that State. 
Perhaps I misunderstood the honorable senator. I thought that he had disagreed with the Prime Minister's reference to the prosperity of Queensland, and I remembered that on numerous occasions he himself had claimed that, under a Labour administration, Queensland had attained great prosperity. 
I hope that my remarks with regard to the apple and pear industry in Tasmania will be noted by the Minister, and that the assistance necessary to enable it to carry on satisfactorily will be granted. 
I desire to refer first to a matter mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  this morning. The honorable gentleman said that I, and others, had engaged in a controversy in relation to the broadcasting of speeches by members of Parliament over national stations. If he had read  Hansard  he would have seen that one of the first things which I did on my arrival in Queensland was to obtain some in formation from the Postmaster-General on the subject. I have had some correspondence with the Prime Minister in relation to the refusal of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to broadcast certain speeches in Queensland. I have not altered the views which I first voiced on this subject. The commission ought not to have prevented the broadcasting of the Premier's speech which it had advertised for six weeks previously. It was most unfair that because the chief  speaker  at a communion breakfast at St. Barnabas Church to a number of boys and girls was a member of Parliament, and the Premier of the State, a broadcast of his speech by a national station should have been refused. On that occasion the commission acted unfairly, not only to the Premier of Queensland, hut also to the State. But when it went further and refused to allow the Prime Minister of Australia to speak over the national network -it altogether exceeded its functions. Show week in Queensland is regarded as a most important occasion. Many people gather in Brisbane ' from places far distant ; the Royal National Association spends large sums of money, and the production of both primary and secondary industries is exhibited. The official opening, which is usually performed by the Governor-General, and is attended by the Prime Minister as well as the State' Premier and other Ministers, is an occasion which Queenslanders regard as one of the greatest annual events iri that State. In refusing to allow the Prime Minister of Australia and the Premier of Queensland to speak over the national network, the Broadcasting Commission showed an utter disregard of its responsibility to the public. I go further, and say that the statement which was made later by  Mr. Moses,  the general manager of the commission, was a studied insult to every man in the public life of this country. It is true that on the following day  Mr. Moses  modified his remarks ; but even in their modified form they contained all the elements of the statement that he was reported to have made on the previous day. 
The general manager of the Broadcasting Commission published a list showing broadcasts made by federal Ministers over a period of eighteen months. Those broadcasts would not average one a week in each State. Only on rare occasions is there a national link-up when the Prime Minister or some other federal Minister speaks over the national network. Consequently, we can assume that for a period of from fifteen to twenty minutes each week a federal Minister has used the national stations to make some announcement of public importance. Yet the lists were published in support of the claim of the general manager of the commission that the national stations had been used too frequently by public men. The list published by  Mr. Moses  includes all the speeches delivered by the Prime Minister of Australia during the British constitutional crisis associated with the abdication of King Edward VIII., and also the whole of the speeches which the commission allowed in connexion with the recent referendum. Consequently, there -could have been only a few other speeches by Ministers broadcast by the national stations. The Prime Minister has no need to apologize for asking the Australian Broadcasting Commission to make available the national stations in order that he might say something of importance to the people of this country. The use of radio is the most modern method, of disseminating news, and prominent men of all nations use this means to make announcements of national importance. 
Irrespective of whether an election is to be held within three months or three years, the Broadcasting Commission should recognize its duty, and allow the Prime Minister to address the people whenever he considers that he has anything to say to them of sufficient importance to justify the use of the national network. 
I am not amazed; it refused the Premier of Queensland permission to broadcast an address at the religious gathering to which I have referred. Members of the State Cabinet of New South Wales have been refused permission to deliver speeches in connexion with the sesqui-centenary celebrations of that State next year. These things are done, notwithstanding that any layman who has not been selected to represent the people in the Parliaments of the country may speak over the national stations. 
The commission has carried its policy to ridiculous extremes. L do not condemn the principle of placing broadcasting under a commission, but I say definitely that the present commission has failed in its duty to the people of this country. 
I thank the Leader of the  Opposition  for his courtesy in making available to me a copy of the famous blue book issued on behalf of the Labour party. I confess that, before  I  received a copy of it, I was somewhat envious of  Senator Hardy,  who appeared to be the only member of the Senate outside the Labour party to have a copy. The book is entitled "Labour's Challenge ; Why  Australia should vote out the Lyons Government." It is " authorized by the Federal Parliamentary Labour party, and published on behalf of the party by John Curtin, Parliament House, Canberra, 20th July, 1937." I studied the booklet to ascertain whether the policy of the Labour party in regard to banking bad changed since the last election, and I found on page 10 the following paragraph : - 
The abolition of the Commonwealth Bunk Board and thu re-establishment of the original method of control as set up at the time the Commonwealth Bank was founded. [ assume that that is still Labour's policy. 
According to another paragraph in the booklet, the Labour party appears to have weakened in its advocacy of the nationalization of the private banks, for one paragraph read3 - 
A statutory provision that the banking of all public bodies shall be reserved for the Commonwealth Bank. 
Apparently, the other banks are to be allowed to function. 
Three years ago the Labour party was in favour of the nationalization of all banks, but now it would confine nationalization to the Commonwealth Bank, which is already nationalized. On many occasions the Leader of the Opposition has complained of the tendency to hand over the control of various activities to boards and commissions. He believes that they should be administered directly by the representatives of the people. That, I suppose, is his attitude towards broadcasting as- well as towards banking. 
Apparently the honorable senator does not believe that the Commonwealth Bank should bc controlled by a board. 
I have here some extracts from the transcription of the shorthand notes of evidence given in an action recently taken in a Brisbane court by  Mr. Baker,  the member for Griffith in the House of Representatives. I do not propose to discuss the case itself in detail, because  Mr. Baker  established the facts he set out to establish. I pro pose, however, to read some extracts from the evidence given by Clarence George Fallon, Vice-President of the Queensland Central Executive of the Australian Labour party, which give an insight into Labour's policy for the nationalization of banking and the control of the Commonwealth Bank.  Mr. Fallon,  examined by  Mr. Hart,  gave the following evidence; - 
By  Mr. Hart.  - What is your name? - Clarence George Foi lon. . 
What are von? - I am Vine-President of the Queeusland Central  Executive  of the Australian Labour party in thu State" of Queensland. 
You are also branch secretary? - Of the Australian Workers Union, Queensland Branch. 
By  Mr. Hart.  - When you read the clipping complained of what did you take it to mean? - 1 took it to moan that Baker had indicted the Queeusland Government and had also given utterance to tilings he had no authority to give utterance to. 
What do you mean by giving utterance? - 1 considered Baker had made, according to his report, or taken upon himself to declare the policy of the Labour party as to monetary reform for the next election, and he had no authority to do that. I took it to mean also that he had untruthfully declared that Labour had lamentably failed to grapple with unemployment in Queensland and that the Queensland Government was a failure. 
By his Honour. - How would that affect his position as a Federal candidate in the party? - lt would have meant that he could not have retained his membership in the party. 
By  Mr. Hart.  - Take these words : " The party would have two planks in its platform - the vesting of the control of the monetary policy of Australia in the hands of the elected representative" - what do you say as to that? - I say a statement such as that would destroy, if accepted, any possibility of Labour succeeding at the next Federal elections. 
Why? - Because the Labour party is quite satisfied that the people of Australia would not agree to a monetary policy being in the hands of politicians; and it has never been the policy of the party. 
 Mr. Fallon  continued - 
Where would you invest the control? - We would invest the control in a board and certainly it would not consist of parliamentarians. 
By his Honour. - Whatever you would or would not do, you think it would be a suicidal policy for the party to advocate in front of the electors? - Yos, I would definitely say it is not, and never has been, the intention of the party. 
By  Mr. Hart.  - Would you regard a person who gave vent to a sentiment Such as that a person loyal to his party? - lt would be the act oi a man who was deliberately disloyal  to  his party. 
I have read it; it refers to the abolition of the Commonwealth Bank Board and the  reestablishment  of the original method of control, yet'  Mr. Fallon  says that Labour would vest control in a board. I desire to know whether the statement of  Mr. Curtin  in the blue book that Labour will abolish the board is correct, or whether the directly conflicting statement of the VicePresident of the Queensland Central Executive is correct? 
The honorable senator says that  Mr. Fallon  is wrong? 
The evidence continued - 

 By His Honour. - Whatever you would or would not do you think it would be a suicidal policy for the party to advocate in front of the electors? - Yes, I would definitely say it is not, and never has been, the intention of the party. 
The Labour party has said that Government control would be exercised over the national credit of the nation. It has been saying that for years - 

 By His Honour. - Do you mean that particular part or the whole of it? - I was referring to that particular part at the moment. Any person who gave utterance to those sentiments in public would be deliberately disloyal to the Labour party . . . 
Go on? - The vesting of the control of the monetary policy of Australia in the hands of the elected representatives. 
Is there anything in that contrary to the policy of the Labour party? - Yes, definitely. 
In what way is it contrary? - Because it is in conflict with the policy of the party. 
Is not one of the planks of- the platform the nationalization of the banking system? - Yes. 

 By His Honour. - That is a remote objective, is it? - Yes. This article purports to be dealing with the next election. 

 By 
 Mr. Real. - You told me he had authority to say that they would not tolerate the domination of the banks? - Yes. 
Was it not going to be a plank of their platform to have nationalization of the banking system? - Not at the next election. 

 By Hia Honour. - You say that requires education? - Yes. 
It is a gradual process? - Yes. 
As I understand it, you have in the platform the nationalization of all means of distribution, exchange and so forth? - That is so. 
But you do not put that forward as something that is going to be done immediately you are elected? - No. Positively, it won't be a plank of the policy of the next election. 

 By 
 Mr. Rual. - But it is an object that is being aimed at? - Yes, just a remote thing. 
You say he is guilty of disloyalty if he makes a statement that the vesting of control of monetary policies in Australia would be a plank- 

 By His Honour. - You must be fair. He said it would damage the prospects of the party at the next election. 

 By 
 Mr. Riordan. - You would have a bank that would be under the control of the nation? - Yes. There would be a national bank under the control of a board of experts. 
I have deliberately refrained from entering into the merits of the case. If I cannot get the policy of the Labour party of Queensland from  Mr. Fallon,  the vicepresident of the Queensland central executive, and branch secretary of the Australian Workers Union in Queensland, where can I get it? 
The blue hook will become a blue pill for the Labour party before tho elections are over.  Mr. Fallon's  examination continued - 
Who would control the policy of the monetary system? - I have already said that it is inconsistent with our policy and in my opinion would have lost us the next election. 

 By His Honour. - I asked  Mr. Baker  what hu meant by tho words " monetary policy ", and  he  gave me the answer that they were selfexplanatory. I suggested that they were not self-explanatory to me, but apparently he left it there. Monetary policy is a widely embracing term, is it not? - Yes, and we well appreciate that few people can expound the policy. 
Just as a matter of curiosity, who would the board of experts be responsible to? - The intention is that a board of experts would control credits. They cannot be dismissed or interfered with in any shape or form by parliamentarians. They will be elected as Supreme Court judges are- 
In exactly the same way as this Government has elected the present 'board of the Commonwealth Bank - 
You mean by executive appointment? - Yes. I did not mean to use the word *' elected ". 
You mean that they are to be an independent body with expert knowledge, appointed to discharge certain duties in relation to finance? - That is so. 
And that when they are appointed they have no responsibility to Parliament except, 1 suppose, for misconduct of some kind. - That is so. 
To be really in tlie independent position of judges? - That is so. 
Of course the executive appointment then would be the crucial matter? - That is so, hut exact details of the scheme of that kind cannot be expounded, off-hand, but definitely there is no intention that the elected representatives should control. 
You think that the electors would at once get a scare if they thought that the members of Parliament were going to be directly in control of the finances of the country, as suggested there? - I do not think we would be entitled to any support if we put that forward. 
But the .blue book says that Labour will abolish the Commonwealth Bank Board. If Labour does that it must revert to political control of the board, which  Mr. Fallon  said is not intended. 

 - Mr. Fallon further said - 

 By 
 Mr. Real. - I understood you to say before lunch that this statement in the report *' the control of the monetary policy of Australia must be vested in the hands of the elected representatives of the people" would bo sufficient to justify  Mr. Baker's  expulsion? That statement, including that, would be sufficient to justify his expulsion. 
If he advocated that control of the monetary policy of Australia should be put into the hands of the elected representatives of the people, that would justify expulsion from the Labour party. 
Yes, if he advocated control of banking by the members of the party, he would automatically put him self out of the party. Probably he will not advocate it again. It is apparent that the Leader of the Opposition has for a long time been running the risk of expulsion from his party. 

 By 
 Mr. Real. - But you are in a position to say that if he said that the control of tlie monetary policy of Australia must be vested in the hands of the elected representatives hu should bc expelled? - I am in a position to say that if he said that the policy at the nextelection would be vesting the control of the monetary policy in the hands of the elected representatives of the people, that is parliamentarians, he would in my opinion, be liable to expulsion. 
I am glad to health at. I proceed with  Mr. Fallon's  evidence - 
You say that the ideal is an independent financial board, controlling matters of finance quite independently of Parliament? - Completely removed from political interference. 

 By 
 Mr. Real. - That would be brought about by Parliament? - I expect Parliament would bring it about. 

 By Eis Honour. - Of course, they would appoint the board and pass the necessary legislation for its existence? - Yes, but the Parliament would not control credit or the monetary policy. 
As a matter of fact - I must say I cannot claim not to read the papers - my recollection is that the Labour party are very sensitive about the suggestion that parliamentarians are trying to get control of finance and of banking? - Yes. We are very sensitive of that. 
Yan think that would not be  a  very good election plank, would it? - We would go down to defeat every time, if we used it. The plank is really that Parliament should constitute a board independent of itself to run this very difficult business? - Yos, Your Honour. 
For a long time to-day, we listened to the Leader of the Opposition criticizing the delegation of control in various governmental matters to boards and commissions, which, he says, are not representative of the people. I have just read a complete exposition of the financial and monetary policy of the Labour party by the vice-president of the Queensland Central Executive. I have no desire to deal further with this matter. I -am glad to have this opportunity to place on record this proof that the Labour party is apparently just as much at sixes and sevens with regard to its finance policy, as it is with regard to its defence policy. . 
 At the outset, I should like to make a passing comment on the speech delivered to-day 'by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  The honorable senator made a somewhat outrageous attack on the members of my party in the Senate, saying that the conduct of at least six senators on this side of the House yesterday was unworthy of gentlemen and of nien holding the high position of members of Parliament. Immediately after he had castigated those honorable senators he turned the torrent of his abuse on my defenceless head. All I can say is that those who read  Hansard  will be able to realize that my comments and conduct were orderly, and that I did not say anything to which the Leader of the Opposition could reasonably take exception. Any one reading my speech will find that it is riddled with interjections by the Leader of the Opposition, and at times there is difficulty in determining who was actually making the speech. I do no know whether the honorable senator had hallucinations during the night, or whether some one outside had made an unwarranted attack upon him, but the charges he levelled against me were quite unworthy of a man occupying the important position of Leader of the Opposition. This morning he commented upon the speech of the Prime Minister in Brisbane, which was repeated, but perhaps more fully, at a meeting of manufacturers in Sydney. 
They were in many respects the same. 
The honorable senator can make black appear to be white when it suits his case. The Prime Minister outlined the wonderful recovery which Australia has made and during his survey dealt with the position in Queensland. 
The Prime Minister, in speaking of the return to pros perity in Australia, according to  Senator Collings,  cast a reflection upon Queensland where a Labour Government is in power. The Leader of the Opposition said that the figures published by the Queensland Statistician show that the position in Queensland is infinitely better than the Prime Minister stated. If that is so, the general position of the whole Commonwealth is even better than was stated by the Prime Minister. In these circumstances it would have suited the Prime Minister's case had the figures of the Queensland Statistician been given. The right honorable gentleman referred in his Sydney speech to the fact that Australia's internal and external trade has developed wonderfully since the Lyons Government has- been in power, and said that our economic recovery has been almost phenomenal. What are the actual figures? In 192S-29  -  the year preceding the start of the depression - there were 450,482 factory employees; in 1931-32  -  during the height of the depression  -  338,483 ; and in 1935-36- after the depression  -  492,771. In 1936-37, a record of 525,000 was estimated. These figures show that between 1931-32 and 1936-37 the number of factory employees increased by 188,000, and for this wonderful achievement the administration of the Lyons Government is largely responsible. During each week of that five-year period, 723 men and women found employment. . 
In a degree, of course ; but the Leader of the Opposition, during his speech, did not mention the remarkable improvement in employment since the Lyons Government has been in office. 
This morning  Senator Hardy  quoted a statement by  Mr. Crofts,  in the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, showing the extent to which the financial and economic position of Australia has improved. Other leading officials in the trade union movement have also said that the betterment of Australia's financial and economic position during the last few years has been phenomenal. I propose now to refer to a report headed " The 
Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. Basic Wage Inquiry 1937. In the matter of an application by Organizations of Employees for an Increase in. the Basic Wage." Honorable senators will recall that, in 1929, the main argument used in support of a reduction of wages was that the economic position of the country rendered a reduction necessary. There must have been something in that contention, because the Labour Government then in power, led by  Mr. Scullin,  who knew that pensioners were then getting barely sufficient to provide them with food, clothing and shelter - an aspect that is often overstated by Labour members - reduced pensions as part of an endeavour to secure some form of economic stability. I do not suggest that any other action could have been taken at tho time, and perhaps the position was so acute that  Mr. Scullin  was forced to reduce pensions. This document, which refers to reduction of wages, said that the causes responsible for such reduction were the decline of the national income, increasing unemployment, violent fall of export prices, and overseas borrowing, goes on to show that those engaged in primary production are now back to predepression levels. The document is compiled, not by politicians, but by persons acting in a conciliatory capacity between employers and employees. It also states that manufacturing industries have been more than restored to the 1929 level. A supporter of the Government in the House of Representatives, in speaking -of the administration of the Scullin Government, said that even its own supporters - he was referring to the Beasley group - said that that Government was incapable of governing and accordingly voted it out of office. A general election was held, and the people also said that the Scullin Government was incapable of controlling the destinies of this country. When  Mr. Lyons  appeared before the electors, he did not promise them a new Jerusalem or a modern Utopia in which every one would live in perfect happiness, but he said that if he had sufficient support to form a government he would endeavour to get the people back to the position in which they were prior to the depression, that his government would restore confidence and in that way, stabilize finance. 
The Scullin Government had a majority in the House of Representatives. 
Was the Scullin Government defeated in the House of Representatives by members of the Opposition or by members of the Labour party? The honorable senator knows full "well the facts. On page 5 of the report on the basic wage inquiry the following appears: - 
Using such methods of calculation as arc available, it may reasonably be inferred that real national income per head is now as great as before the depression. Unemployment has rapidly decreased and, at the moment, with a falling trend, is little, if any, in excess of that of normal years. Export price3 have reached the level of 1928. The Common wealth has adapted itself, mainly by increased manufacture, to the absence of overseas borrowing. 
Those are not my words, or the words of the Prime Minister, or of the United Australia party, or the United Country party. They are the words of an independent tribunal, and they show that unemployment in Australia is back to normal. Honorable senators representing the Labour party cannot dispute them. Let me take another aspect showing the virtues of the Lyons Government. I am a protectionist, but not an ultra protectionist. I do not agree entirely with  Senator James  McLachlan, who spoke as if the mere imposition of a tariff, and especially a high tariff, imposed a big penalty on the people. 
It may be so; but I am reminded of the words of Abraham Lincoln, the great American statesman"If you manufacture the goods in your own country, you have the goods, and you have your money; if you import them from some other country you have their goods, but they have your money." That is a very old dictum, but a very hard one to dispute. It is not true in every respect, but in one it is true. 
I know that some of the States have expressed the wish to impose customs tariffs of their own. At the beginning of federation Western Australia was under great disabilities, one of which was said to be the abolition of interstate customs duties. Under the Constitution, for the first five years of federation - the first suggestion made was that the period should be 25 years - the Western Australian Government had the right to impose customs duties on goods passing into that_ State but not originally imported from' beyond the Commonwealth, but that power was never exercised, for the simple reason that it would not have been wise, and for the additional reason that the State would, probably, have been not better off. I was about to deal with the extension of existing industries and the establishment of new ones under the regime of the Lyons Government. In his speech at the annual dinner of the Associated Chambers of Manufacture of Australia in Sydney last month, the Prime Minister said, among other things - 
From the information supplied by the managements it is computed that some £2,700.000 capital has been expended in connexion with goods not made in Australia prior to 1932. The manufacture of these new types of goods has provided employment for over 1.000 han'ds, and the output is valued at £3,350.000. Particulars of the capital investment in new industries established in various States is as follows: - 
I am pleased to note that the State I represent stands very much above the others with regard to these new industries. I am proud of the fact, as it means much added employment, greatly in creased capital investment, and a general improvement of conditions in my State. The speech continued, dealing with new industries, 
The principal new Hues of goods which have  been manufactured as a result of the abovementioned capital investment are: Steel  plates  cold rolled steel strip,  nitralloy  steel, steel pipes up to 3 inches diameter and tubular fittings therefor, wireless valves, citric acid,  rimfire  cartridges, shot-gun cartridge shells, process engravers' zinc sheets, dredge buckets, apparel elastic,  zipp  fasteners, bobbins, paper" cones and pirns for textile industry, latex sponge rubber for upholstering, tacks, household pins. 
That is a most illuminating list, and shows what remarkable progress can bc made in industry in this country. 
No ; I wish to show that during the process of recovery, whilst finance and industry have been rehabilitated, and employment has been brought back to normal, there has been going on an increase in the actual manufacture of goods which were never manufactured in this country before. The honorable gentleman then gave the following list of special or new types: - 
Spiral welded pipes; cotton yarns of denim, drill, tweed and mercerized types; 11Onmechanical refrigerators; steel drums, 44- gallon; tanning extract; tropical sun hats: waterproofed papers; automatic  underteed  stokers; warp knitted fabrics; shock absorbers of the double acting type, and handset telephones. 
That is a remarkable record of absolutely new industries. Another phase 'is the extension of existing industries, as to which the right honorable gentleman said - 
It is generally acknowledged that the field for the manufacture of new classes of goods in Australia has certain limits, and consequently one turns to the older industries more truly to gauge the effect of the Government's tariff policy. 
Tlie extensions in those older industries, that is those engaged in the manufacture of classes of goods which were made in Australia prior to 1932, are more significant when viewed from the aspect of increased capital expenditure a.nd employment than are the new industries. 
The limited survey shows that the capital investment in additional producing units for extending the production' of classes of goods made prior to 1932 is £11,300,000, and that employment, as a result of the installation of the additional units has been given to some 23,000 hands. The annual valna of the output of the additional producing units is £14,115,000. 
I wish, to recite the actual distribution of those extensions, giving the States and the quantities under the different heads. Again it is pleasing to me to note that New South Wales takes the lead: - 
The only fault to be found with this splendid development, as the Prime Minister pointed o'ut, is in relation to the incidence of its spread. Although 1 am pleased that New South Wales has been the leading State in these improvements, especially in those two phases - new industries and the extension of new units within existing industries - I believe that one of the great drawbacks in Australia is that we do not distribute the various factories over a greater area. I should like to see them not only in other States, but also in some of the country areas of New South Wales. I should bc glad to see new industries springing up in places like Goulburn and Bathurst, and other towns all over the country. I believe there must be a reorientation of industry in. the Commonwealth.  One vital factor which we have discussed very heatedly in. this chamber is defence, and from that aspect I think it is foolish to have all our eggs in one basket. Some of the industries which are closely allied with defence seem to me to be in very vulnerable spots, although I do not know whether the strategic distribution of military, aerial and naval protection is sufficient to cover them. I should like to see at least some of them placed in the hinterland of the various States. Another reason is that it is wrong to have all our industries in great cities, creating large industrial centres, where people are herded in crowds. My policy would be to get them out into the country, to take our factories out among the gum trees and the rural beauties, and, if necessary, give them rebates to enable their goods to be brought to the coastline or to the cities for consumption. I would put the factories in the large towns of the country, so that we should have big towns growing up all over Australia, and by that means destroy the harmful process of centralization which has been going on. I know that H. G. Wells,- one of the world's greatest thinkers, forecast a great metropolis of the future. I disagree with him there. I want to hasten the process of decentralization; I want to see, not a great metropolis, but the people spread out into the open spaces in God's fresh air, where the green grass . grows and the trees are a glory, in order that they may build up their health, strength, and vitality, instead of following the mistaken idea, adopted in England during the periods of its industrial growth, that all the factories must be put in one area. What was the result of that policy? ]m many places the atmosphere is unsatisfactory and other places suggest a land of stinks. I am not a believer in the great metropolis of the future. On the contrary, I believe in the development of economic units far beyond the crowded metropolitan areas. I believe that wherever God has planned a landscape man should not defile it by unsightly factory buildings. 
The Leader of the Opposition fears that if what I have envisaged comes to pass he will lose his occupation as an agitator. He lives on the business of persuading the workers that they are being exploited by some one else, and it has been for him a  profi  table occupation hitherto. The honorable gentleman has battened and waxed fat on the workers by telling them, that their conditions of employment are awful and "for God's sake tear off the chains and become free men ! " Apparently he re  sents  the existence of employers. Only the other day he blackguarded  Mr. Davis  in connexion with the proposal to develop the Newnes shale deposits. The truth is that the tendency of modern industrialists is to plant gardens around their  establishments and provide all the necessary comforts for their employees. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  - I ask the honorable senator to withdraw the words. 
In deference to your request I should like to do so but 1. am at a loss to know what I should withdraw. 
Well, whatever it is that has disturbed the Leader of the Opposition I withdraw it, but I really do not know what he is complaining about as he certainly did this very thing by inference. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  The Leader of the Opposition has specified the words to which he objects, and I ask  Senator Arkins  to withdraw them. 
I cannot do any more than I have done already. I withdraw the word complained of, and will add that the Leader of the Opposition declared that  Mr. Davis  was negotiating for the Newnes shale deposits purely for the purpose of profit making. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  I ask  Senator Arkins  to withdraw unreservedly the word complained of. 
I have done so  Mr. Deputy President. Senator Brown  this afternoon commented on the Newnes shale agreement and indicated that the Labour party did not want  Mr. Davis  to have anything to do with it. - 
The tendency of employers all over the world is to erect suitable buildings for their particular industries, plant gardens around them, provide facilities for meals and recreation and generally to cater for the comfort of their employees.  Mr. Davis  does all this. He is very highly respected by all his employees and is .acknowledged to be an industrialist of outstanding ability. 
I am glad to have the approval of the Leader of the Opposition for this statement. 
We are all pleased that prosperity has been restored in Australia. If I were asked what is essential to our continued progress and prosperity, I would say more population. Our Labour friends do not see eye to eye with lis in this matter. This is especially true of the Leader of the Opposition, who has just proved himself to be so thin skinned, although no one in this chamber delivers, harder knocks or so often insults other people. 
This afternoon, the Leader of the Opposition, under cover of privilege, went out of his way to attack a woman. Such a spectacle has rarely been seen in this chamber. 
I repeat that, in my opinion, more population is essential to the continued prosperity of Australia.  Senator Allan  MacDonald the other day asked the Leader of the Senate if the Government intended to appoint a representative to the conference on migration proposed to be held shortly in London. I strongly urge the Government to have a representative at that gathering, because of its importance to the future of Australia. Eminent authorities have estimated that, according to the present low rate of natural increase, the population of Australia 40 years hence will be about S.000,000. That suggests an alarming situation. If we are to enjoy security, we must have a flow of migrants to this country instead of away from it. The fertile coastline belt from Victoria up to Northern Queensland will support four times' the present population of 
Australia. Every possible channel for the introduction of migrants should' be investigated. 
Why has not this G  overnment  done that ? 
I should like the Government to reconstitute the Public Accounts Committee, which rendered distinct service for many years. I have received many letters from citizens who are interested in this matter.  Mr. Remington,  the  president  of the Constitutional Association of New South Wales, has made a very useful suggestion. Usually criticism from outside of parliamentary institutions lacks constructive suggestions, and shows antagonism towards members of Parliament, but  Mr. Remington,  in urging that, the Public Accounts Committee be reconstituted, suggests, and I heartily agree with him, that the Treasurer of the Administration immediately preceding the Government that is in office when  th,  committee is appointed should be its chairman. 

 Mr. Remington also had something to say regarding the insufficiency of the statistical information obtainable. L agree with him that the information is inadequate, and also that there should be a greater uniformity in regard to it. It sometimes happens that information on a certain subject is compiled on a different basis in almost every State. Statistics should be uniform throughout the Commonwealth, and, moreover, it should be possible to obtain from the statisticians much more detailed information on a greater variety of subjects than is now the case. For instance, it would be useless to ask what quantity of flour, sugar, or yeast, &amp;c, is used in the baking trade, or the quantity of bread produced, for the statisticians could not supply the information. I hope that before long there will be a reform of our statistical methods. 
I could say a great deal about the Australian Broadcasting Commission, but I have become tired of criticizing it. I do say, however, that we in this Parliament should be able to obtain information regarding the activities of that body. We should be able to know, for instance, how much it costs to bring to Australia a conductor, singer, or instriunen.tali.st, or a group of instrumentalists from some other country. Such information is of public importance and should be supplied. Moreover, if a visiting conductor submits a report, that report should be made available to the public. Otherwise, of what use is it? The fourth annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission contains the following reference to a competition for Australian composers: - 
The results of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's 1934-1935 competition for Australian composers were announced during the period under review. The entries submitted were judged in England by a distinguished musical authority,  Mr. John  Ireland, who commented favourably upon much of the work. The competition drew 269 entries, covering a wide range of types of musical compositions - symphonic, choral, brass and military band, chamber music, operetta and vocal and instrumental solos. The commission was widely commended for this encouragement to local composers. 
It is remarkable that the report does not give the name of any of the men and women who won the prizes; it merely says who the judge was. The public is concerned to know, not who judged- the contestants, but who among them were sufficiently brilliant to win prizes. I know some of the successful competitors; but in spite of the fact that they were adjudged, brilliant composers, not one of their compositions has been broadcast by the commission. These brilliant Australians have not had the advantage of having their names brought before the Australian public or at the least written in the records for posterity to read. Their only reward has been the few guineas which they earned as prizes. 
Honorable senators, know that, from time to time, I advocate new and advanced ideas in my speeches. Some time ago, 'I advocated that men without, academic attainments should co-operate with the scientists of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, but some honorable senators ridiculed the suggestion. Unfortunately we, in Australia, are far behind Great Britain in many matters; we are behind in matters of social security, affecting old-age, invalidity, health, and employment. In the House of Commons, there is what is known as a Science in Parliament Committee. Among its members are men of great scientific ability, who are charged with the duty of watching the various scientific matters which arise from time to time. 'This Parliament, too, is fortunate in having among its members, men with scientific qualifications, and we would do well to follow the example of the House of Commons. 
Reverting again to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, I suggest that, instead of expending large sums of money to bring to Australia, men and women from other countries which would not pay a brass farthing to assist an Australian, the commission would do well to encourage Australian artists. We have only to call to mind such names as Peter Dawson, Malcolm McEacharn, Madame Melba, Ada Crossley, John Brownlee, Percy Grainger, and a host of others, to convince ourselves that Australian artists are among the best in the world. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission might well follow the example of the British Broadcasting Commission and use some of its revenue in conducting experiments in television. The honorable member for Watson  (Mr. Jennings)  in the House of Repr esentatives, who recently returned from a trip abroad, told me of an interesting visit which he paid to Broadcasting House, London. While there, he saw things which astonished him. He saw, for instance, a tennis match which was being played at the time some miles distant. The picture was entirely without vibration. He said that the thing was uncanny, and expressed his amazement at what was being done in Great Britain to develop the science of television. Recently, the cables announced that one of the greatest entrepreneurs in London had installed television in six or eight of his theatres. Here in Australia, nothing has been done in that direction. 

 Mr. Scholfield said that when he attended the Paris Exposition he was particularly struck by the poor quality of the Australian exhibit. He is an observant young man, and if what he says is correct, that display was a disgrace to this country. Whether exhibits of Australian goods are made in foreign countries, or in any part of the British Empire, we should see . that we are represented adequately and by the best that we produce. This is undoubtedly the best possible form of advertising. Every effort should ha.ve been made to ensure that only our best products were '.exhibited at the Paris Exposition, which was visited by people from all over the globe. We go to a great deal of trouble in displaying Australian goods at agricultural shows in all of the States, and when we exhibit our products in other countries we should see that they are of a quality that will do credit to us. 
Criticism of the sort levelled by  Mr. Scholfield  is all too frequent, and the Government should see that Australian goods exposed in the shop windows of the world should be of the highest grade that this country can produce. 
I have endeavoured to illustrate the wonderful progress which has been made in Australia during the regime of the present Government. I know that people have very poor memories, and that many see only the things that confront them at the moment ; for that reason I propose to give a summary of the tragedy that faced the State of New South Wales under the premiership of  Mr. Lang,  just before the Lyons Government assumed office. At that time the public debt had increased by £28,000,000 ; the deficit had increased to £14,227,884 and the accumulated deficit totalled over £23,000,000; building values had decreased by over £17,000,000; property sales had decreased 1.v nearly £13,000,000; mortgages had decreased by £16,250,000; the 'unemployed had increased to 200,000; food relief had increased from £3,252,846 to £10,500,000; the interest rate on short term loans had increased to 6 per cent.; the wages tax bad increased from 3d. to ls.; expenditure on 'relief works had dropped to £766,000, a fall of £1,500,000; the loss on Government enterprises amounted to over £9,000; railway losses amounted to £4,564,605; tramway losses "mounted to £290,140; hospitals all over the State were in debt to an amount in excess of £650,000; and no less than 30;000 employees were rationed in the railways service alone. Owing to the sound policy of the Lyons Government in the federal sphere and the Stevens Government in New South Wales, that State has emerged from disaster and chaos to the stable conditions enjoyed before the depression. The percentage of unemployment throughout the Commonwealth is the lowest on record ; our financial position and recovery from the depression is not only a credit to the Commonwealth and the Government, but is also, according to high officials of the British Government, a pattern to the rest of the world. It cannot be denied that the Commonwealth generally is in a ' flourishing condition as a result of the policy of the Lyons Government. Business has increased; primary industries are flourishing, although seasonal conditions have contributed to some extent to their success; secondary industries have gone back to normal; new industries have been established and previously existing industries have been expanded to a remarkable extent. While all of these things have been brought about, the economic power of this country has been developed and cared for by a paternal government, of which we should be proud. We should also be proud of the fact that, in spite of all the difficulties that confronted us, Ave are now laying the foundations of a defence policy that redounds to its credit. We  have also commenced to create the basis  of  internal peace in this country. Already, large sums of money have been expended on investigation of national insurance, and £70,000 has been provide-.! in the budget for the establishment  of  unemployment and health insurance, which will do much to guarantee social security to the people of this country. When we review the progress that has taken place in this country during the last few years, we must remember that this Government was returned to hold thi! reins of office for one thing only, namely, to put the country on a solid financial and economic basis. And it has achieved its objective. We make no apology to anybody in the Commonwealth for the policy which we have followed, and which has been so successful. I. am confident: that the people of Australia will remember the tragedy of the past, and, comparing it with tile prosperity of the last few years, will return the present  Government  to  office  in order to ensure the security and future prosperity of this great Common wealth . 
Honorable senators have availed themselves of this opportunity to deal with quite a number of matters; but I shall deal shortly with only a few matters which call for some reply from me as  the  ministerial head of the Postal Department. 
In passing, I direct attention to the lack of clarity in Labour's defence policy as enunciated by the Leader of the Oppo- sition. The honorable senator indulged in a spate of words, but made the position no clearer than it was after his declaration a few days ago. The honorable senator talked about co-operation with New Zealand and about the immense production that was to be the result of better times in that country, and still he failed to tell us how he proposes to assist our sister dominion in keeping open the trade routes for the conveyance of the produce of the two dominions overseas. 
The honorable senator also characterized the alliance in this Government of the United Australia and Country parties as an association of strange bedfellows. I remind the honorable senator, however, that the bed-fellows which the Labour party has selected to join it in the election campaign will be found to be wearing spurs. 
The Leader of the Opposition and other honorable senators have seen fitto offer some criticism concerning the Broadcasting Commission which was established under a statute of this Parliament, which imposed upon the commission certain obligations.With regard to that, I can say no more than that Parliament has seen fit to delegate to that body the powers it has to-day. The commission may or may not be exercising those powers in accordance with our individual wishes, but, if the Parliament desires to get more control over broadcasting, it can create another body more subservient to the legislature. The commission was appointed to act as an independent body with only a small measure of political control. 
Senatorfoll. - It was expected to display some commonsense. 
I now come to. the criticisms offered by the Leader of the Opposition to-day and on other occasions concerning the personnel of the commission. It is very easy for members of Parliament to make charges concerning the. work, characters, and capabilities of the persons appointed to the commission ; but letme inform the Leader of the Opposition of the type of individuals who constitute that body. The  chairman  of the commission,  Mr. Cleary,  instead of being an accountant in a brewery, as the Leader of the Opposition stated, was at 37 years of age appointed to the position of general manager of Tooth and Company Limited, one of the largest industrial and financial concerns in Sydney. In the course of his career, and by the employment of his leisure time at night for four years, he graduated with first class honours as a Bachelor of Economics at Sydney University. For ten years afterwards, while still discharging responsible duties in his high office with Tooth and Company Limited, he lectured on two and sometimes three nights a week to university students on business organization, to accountancy and other groups on finance and business problems, and to classes of working men and women at the university. . I understand that some of the colleagues of the Leader of the Opposition have studied economics under  Mr. Cleary  at the Sydney University, and from him have obtained a good deal of valuable knowledge. He did not occupy a junior position in the railway service of New South Wales, but was the Chief Commissioner of Railways in that State during the difficult depression years. 
Whether Parliament was right or wrong, it appointed as members of the commission persons who had retired, and who were expected to give only part-time service. He was Chief Commissioner of Railways in New South Wales during the difficult years of the depression, having left his assured and more remunerative position with Tooth and Company Limited, to accept the burden of public service.  His  services were terminated by the Lang Government because he had dismissed, for corruption, a senior officer who had found favour with  Mr. Lang,  and who was thereupon put into  Mr. deary's  position. Upon  Mr. Lang's  dismissal from office, a royal commission found the charges against this officer proved, and he was dismissed.  Mr. Cleary  then, at the invitation of the Government, returned for a few months to assist the Government in the reconstruction of the service, and then resigned, not desiring to be associated with the changes which hadbeen made by the Lang Government. That is a brief history of the man who has been traduced by honorable senators opposite.  Senator Arkins  repeated a charge that  Mr. Cleary  was to be paid a gratuity of £2,000 because he was being asked to do certain things for  the  Government.  Senator Arkins  did not make that charge, but I deplore the fact that he should have repeated what has been said in another quarter.I assure honorable senators that, although  Mr. Cleary,  who was supposed to devote only a portion of his time to the work of the commission, for months gave all of his time in establishing an effective organization to control wireless broadcasting throughout Australia. Those responsible for the control of broadcasting are subject to the criticism of musical authorities, who are, perhaps, the most critical of any, and listeners-in who are not more numerous than the diverse opinions they hold concerning the class of programmes that should be broadcast.  Mr. Cleary  had practically the whole responsibility of establishing this important organization, and those of us who have had commercial experience will realize the magnitude of his task. 
It had been partly established when  Mr. Cleary  was appointed ; but honorable senators opposite appear to overlook the circumstances which prevailed at the time of his appointment.  Mr. Lloyd  Jones had been the  chairman  of the commission, but owing to the demands of his business interests upon his time, he was compelled to relinquish the position.  Mr. Lloyd  Jones rendered excellent service without fee or reward. He visited Great Britain and' other countries, and the extensive knowledge he obtained overseas was made available to the commission on his return. The general manager having relinquished office,  Mr. Cleary  had with the help of the other commissioners, the responsibility of inaugurating an effective organization which is now being conducted on a different basis, and is providing a satisfactory national broadcasting service.  Mr. Cleary  did not seek the gratuity paid to him, but  Mr. Herbert  Brookes, a member of the commission who is well known to some honorable senators, and all the other members of the commission were unanimously of the opinion that the valuable work he hadrendered should be recognized. 
I am not arguing that point, but am answering the criticisms levelled at  Mr. Cleary  for receiving a gratuity which was small considering the service he had rendered.  Mr. Cleary  has never sought an increase of salary or a gratuity. I endorsed the recommendation to pay him an amount which has been paid, because I do not believe that a man should be sweated. 
I know that; but the honorable senator referred to the rumours that are current. I hear all sorts of rumours and criticisms concerning certain responsible officers in my department - I am told of nepotism, favouritism, musicians ignored, somebody refused a job, somebody's daughter unable to get an audition, and so on - and if I took notice of them all I should be a very busy man. From time to time, it is brought under our notice that musical and other artists have not been given an opportunity to display their talent, but as the commission has been appointed to deal with all such matters, it is only right that it should be given a free hand. Most of the criticisms are made by individuals who have a grievance because their talents have not been recognized or some particular class of music is not given sufficient prominence on theprogrammes.  Senator Arkins  also mentioned the fact that a certain competition had been adjudged overseas. I remember reading a statement to that effect, and at the time I thought how wise it was that that course had been adopted in order to avoid local jealousy. 
Objections have been raised on that account particularly by those interested in cer- tain competitors, but I think it wise that the decision should have been left with those who had no knowledge of the competitors, and were therefore impartial.  Senator Arkins  thought that that was the proper policy to adopt, but he complained because the names were not published in the annual report of the commission. 

 Senator A. J. McLACHLAN.Possibly the commission did what was right; but I believe that the competitors had greater publicity in Australia than they would have had if their names had been published in the official report of the commission to Parliament. The results have been published throughout Australia. The non-employment of some of the persons interested is a matter for the expert members of the commission. 
The second member of the commission,  Mr. Herbert  Brookes, graduated in engineering at the Melbourne University, and also served his country abroad. He rendered distinguished service on the Tariff Board, and also represented the Commonwealth in the United States of America. He has also been associated with many philanthropic works of a public character in Victoria, has a sound judgment, considerable culture and learning, and is equipped in a way that few men are equipped to pass judgment on the highest forms of art brought under his notice. 
Another member of the commission,  Mr. Orchard,  is known personally to some honorable senators. He has served, as it were, an apprenticeship in a certain class of entertainment. He is a man of undoubted judgment, and possesses considerable ability. He was a member of the House of Representatives for many years. He is a good judge of public taste throughout Australia, and of the class of entertainment listeners require. Possibly his more popular tastes leaven the higher musical culture of the  chairman  and the second commissioner. 
I deplore the criticism levelled against the lady member of the board, who is unable to defend herself.  Mrs. Couchman  is known to me only as a member of the commission. I have never heard of gutter tactics and sewer tactics, but I have never heard anything worse than the criticism which the Leader of the 
Opposition offered, for it descended to even the lowest phase of life. 
This sort of scavenging is unworthy of a gentleman occupying the honorable senator's dignified position. I am not going to humiliate an Australian lady who has graduated as Bachelor of Arts in the University of Western Australia, who has held positions of trust, many of them honorary, in many organizations and in many public capacities throughout Australia. 
Because of her culture, and because of her knowledge of music. 
What has social standing to do with this? Do  Mr. Cleary, Mr. Herbert  Brookes,  Mrs. Couchman, Mr. Kitto,  or  Mr. Orchard  make any pretensions to high life in this country? I venture to "say that they do not, but they have a degree of culture; they have had careers ; they have character; they have been in touch with the people of this country in so many capacities that the Government, in appointing them, believed that it was getting a combination of talent which would work in the best interests of national broadcasting. 
I shall reach  Mr. Kitto  in a moment. I have been restraining myself for a considerable time concerning the gibes which are being directed by certain people against the members of the commission who, for a start, are underpaid. They are doing a big public service for Australia, dealing with one of the most difficult jobs in the Commonwealth to-day, and doing it with a considerableamount of success, so that the service is improving in the eyes of the public from day to day.  Mrs. Couchman  has travelled the world at her own expense inquiring into broadcasting. She went to America, Canada and Great Britain, making investigations to help in fulfilling the duties which had been cast upon her by this appointment. I am not going to recount the number of public positions she has held. I come now to  Mr. Kitto.  The honorable senator asked why I did not keep him in the post office. Right gladly would I have kept him there; right gladly would we have availed ourselves of the services of a man who has served this country well, but the law did not allow me to keep him there, because he had reached the age at which he had to retire. But the commission gained an advantage by the appointment of  Mr. Kitto.  There must be a close liaison between the officers of the Broadcasting Commission and the Postal Department with regard to their relays, telephone and telegraph trunk-line services, &amp;c.  Mr. Kitto  has brought to bear upon the work of the commission an influence which has made it function more smoothly with the Postal Department than ever it functioned before. "We have had something like co-operation between the two departments. The honorable senator knows that there are certain things for the administration of which the 'post office is responsible and certain other things for which the Broadcasting Commission is responsible. It was very difficult, prior to  Mr. Kitto's  presence on the commission, to arrange those things without friction and without a certain amount of trouble. He is familiar with the practices of the post office; he knows the business from A to Z, and has brought to bear in the commission his knowledge and experience, explaining to the various departmental heads what has to be done in order to bring about certain results,  what notice we must have in the post office in order to make lines available, and so on. Whilst we may differ from the decisions of the Broadcasting Commission, whilst we may think that they have gone too far in this direction or not far enough in another, I do want to assure  Senator Collings  that there is not one word of justification for the statement he made this morning that the commission was biased against Labour. I am amazed to hear such a statement. I have had complaints the other way, that far too much liberty is allowed to a certain class of broadcasting over the air. 
In W  estern  Australia, and also in Melbourne. I have had numerous complaints of that sort, and every communication has been sent to the commission, the body to whom Parliament left control of such matters, but I can assure the honorable senator that there is no prejudice whatever on the part of the commission against any political party in this country. 
I have not that spate of language that the honorable senator possesses. I cannot leap from limb to limb with the nimble agility of the honorable senator's 70 or SO years, and I do not propose to try. What I do propose to do is to deal with these matters in the order in which he has dealt with them. The honorable senator suggested that certain decisions the commission made with regard to the coming elections were not fair. He referred to certain speeches in Brisbane, but I do not think that case indicates any evidence of - a prejudice against Labour, because the Prime Minister was treated in exactly the same way as was the Premier of Queensland. Neither of them was broadcast. In an endeavour to hold the scales evenly between the contending factions which are going out to fight an election in a few weeks, the commission in its wisdom saw fit 'to make certain decisions. 
My honorable friend is evading the issue. When a few weeks ago, I was broadcasting on fish and tobacco, I was attacked by  Mr. Curtin,  the Leader of the Labour party in the House of Represent:1 fives, for getting an undue advantage in obtaining an opportunity where the Government word went forth. Although there was not one word of politics from one end of those addresses" to the other and although all the credit was given by me to the Australian Parliament, still  Mr. Curtin  took exception. I offered to let him  broadcast on fish, flesh or fowl, and I said jocularly that I expected that it would be mostly " foul. " He said " no " and I think there is a good deal of substance in his objection, although personally I did. not see it at first.  Mr. Curtin  said to the Prime Minister, "What reason is there for McLachlan to talk about tobacco; why does he not let  Dr. Dickson  or  Dr. Prescott  talk?" The answer is that  Dr. Thompson  is much more learned than I am in fish, and  Dr. Dickson  much more learned than I am about tobacco, but those gentleman are not so well or perhaps not so unfavorably known as 1 am, and they would not be listened to. Our objective was to endeavour to stimulate those two industries.  Mr. Curtin  replied "Yes, I agree, but the very fact that you are PostmasterGeneral in the Lyons Administration is giving your Government at this particular moment an advantage over my party." That is the point that has been influencing the commission. Whatever has been done has not been intended as a humiliation or slight to members of Parliament. The honorable senator can «oe that this problem has grown year by year; he remembers the difficulties that the commisison  had at the time of the last election with three parties - the Country party, the United Australia party and the Labour party - in the field. The leaders of each of those had a broadcast. The honorable senator sees the difficulty that arises tori ay. I think honorable senators should rather bear with this commission which is endeavouring to do a good job of work- and not intending to cast any slur on public men. Because a practice has grown up in our midst of trying to institute a school, of fair play amongst ourselves, the commission, endeavouring to give effect to it, ha3 perhaps, as  Senator Arkins  said, gone a little too far. 
The honorable senator requires a great deal too much teaching. This matter was brought under the notice of the commission, and that is all I ever attempt to do with regard to this body, which Parliament has made supreme. I think it was on the 2nd September, that  Senator Arkins  put a number of questions to me here, and the commission's reply was that it was recently decided as a general policy that no talks by parliamentarians, except political speeches for which time would be allotted to the party leaders or their deputies during the forthcoming federal election campaign, would be pre.mitted over the national stations until after the elections. The object of that was to avoid giving an undue advantage to any party or individual candidate. Since that general rule was formulated, the commission  has decided that its main objective could still be achieved - and this is the point that  Senator Arkins  brought out, - by confining the restriction to candidates for the election concerned instead of applying it to all parliamentarians. This later decision of the commission has been conveyed to the executive committee of the anniversary body concerned. 
The commission has said that its rule was too wide, and has since modified it. 
I should like to see some of the gentlemen who are so ready to criticize, engaged in the maelstrom of the administration of this huge concern. I have seen a little of it from the outside. I have seen some of its troubles; I have them brought to me frequently, but I do beg of honorable senators, in. the interests of this concern, which is likely to grow into a very big thing in the national interests, to give it a chance. As  Senator Collings  pointed out, it may be that the conception we have to-day of having part-time people on the commission will ultimately prove to he wrong. It may be that they should be much more highly remunerated and employed as whole-time officers. I am not quarrelling with that at all, but this is what Parliament has done, and it cannot be undone until the time expires. We can then review the whole position. One or two things have been said about the B class stations in the same connexion. 
I should like to make the Leader of the Opposition feel that I have not treated him unfairly over this matter/ He complained of the reply I gave to questions which he put to me away back in November, 1936. My answer was as follows : - 
As it does not appear that there would be any benefit in making the extensive investigation suggested by the honorable senator, it is not intended to proceed further with the matter in existing conditions. 
It is true that the regulations require commercial companies to present balance-sheets, but acting on the advice of my officers, I have never required them to do so, because the department looks at this business from a purely revenue point of view. I am not at the moment prepared to say what action I shall take when the proper time comes; but when the answer was furnished to the honorable senator, the department had not required the companies to furnish balance-sheets. 
I have the official reply in my hand, and I invite the honorable senator to read it in the  Hansard  report. If the honorable gentleman will read section 62 of the regulations, he will get enlightenment on the subject. 
I am afraid that the Leader of the Opposition is reading into my answer something that was not intended. 
I have been advised by my officers, who are in a position to know, that it would serve no good purpose to get the information for which the honorable gentleman asked. He also made a number of accusations about the monopoly control of commercial stations by the syndicated press. That is an old story, which we have heard over and over again. There is nothing in it. The Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill),  who represents me in .the House of Representatives, supplied on the 25th August full information to an honorable member who had made allegations similar to those voiced by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. He said that there were 90 broadcasting licences in force, and of these 39 are held by companies which have no interest in other stations. Eight stations were owned by individual companies, which were interested in or controlled the activities of two stations in each case. Advertiser Newspapers Limited controls the licence for 5 AD Adelaide, and controls companies holding licences for 5MU Murray Bridge, 5 PI Crystal Brook, and 5SE Mount Gambier. It also holds 112,732 shares out of a total of 365,327 in News Limited, which controls the licence of 2BH Broken Hill. The  Age,  Melbourne - David Syme and Company Limited- holds 1,500 shares out of 6,000 shares in 3 AW Melbourne. Members of the Syme family hold 3,250 shares out of a total of 4,975 in 3HA Hamilton, and  Mr. D.  S. Syme controls companies which, by agreement with the licensees, conduct the service of 3SH Swan Hill. 
Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited holds licences for 2AY Albury, 3BO Bendigo, 4TO Townsville, and 4CA Cairns. It also holds all the shares in the licensee companies for 2GF Grafton and 2GN Goulburn. By agreement with the licensee of 2CH Sydney, Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited conducts the service of that station. It has interests in 7LA Launceston, 2,500 shares in a total of 5,000; 2SM Sydney, 800 shares in a total of 6,500; 3HA Hamilton, 400 shares in a total of 4,975 ; 4WK Warwick, 3,800 shares in a total of 5,000. 
The  Argus,  Melbourne, holds the licences for 3SR Shepparton, 3UL Warragul and 3YB Warrnambool. It also holds 200 shares out of a total of 45,000 shares in 3TJZ Melbourne. 
The Commonwealth Broadcasting Corporation Proprietary Limited, Sydney, holds the licence for 2TJW Sydney, and through Commonwealth Broadcasting Corporation (Queensland), has interests in 4BC Brisbane, owning all shares; 4RO Rockhampton, owning all shares; 4GR Toowoomba, 763' shares in a total of 1,500; 4MB Maryborough, 530 shares in a total of 1,000; 4SB Kingaroy, 1,000  ordinary shares in a total of 2,265 preference and 2,045 ordinary shares. 
The  Courier-Mail,  Brisbane, controls the company holding the licences for 4BK Brisbane and 4AK Oakey. 
Denison Estates Limited, which may or may not be regarded as a newspaper concern, has interests in 2GB Sydney, 15,654 shares in a total of 24,230; 20A Canberra, 2,497 shares in a total of 2,700; 2HR Singleton, 1,500 shares in a total of 4,500; 2WL "Wollongong, 3,500 shares in a total of 7,00S. 
Findlays, Tasmania, has interests in more than one station. 
The  Herald,  Melbourne, owns all the shares in the licensee company for 3DB Melbourne and 3LK Lubeck. It also holds 100,000 preference and 162,900 ordinary shares- in totals of 168,000 and 553,330 respectively - in Advertiser Newspapers, which controls 5 AD, 5MTJ, 5PI and 5SE. It also holds shares in other companies as follows: - 7,500 shares, out of a total of 365,327 shares, in News Limited, which, through the  Barrier Miner,  conduets the service of 2BH Broken Hill; and 15,000 A cumulative 5-^ per cent, preference shares, out of a total of 450,000 shares, in Queensland Newspapers Proprietary Limited, which controls 4BK and 4AK 
There are a number of smaller companies, but 1 I repeat that since the regulation was made, every application for a renewal of a licence or the issue of a fresh licence has to be accompanied by a statutory declaration setting out the interests of the applicants. Therefore, under present conditions, it is impossible for any company to obtain a monopoly of wireless broadcasting without the knowledge of the department, with which power ultimately rests regarding the licensing of stations. 
I turn now to the observations of  Senator Arkins  with regard to television. There is in existence a Radio Research Board, consisting of Professor Madsen, a most distinguished scientist of the University of Sydney, Professor Laby of the University of Melbourne, and technical officers of my own department, headed by  Mr. H.  P. Brown. This board is continually watching developments. A considerable sum of money has been made available for radio research in all its branches. Before  Mr. Brown  left for England, I discussed with him this very interesting development. He told -me that when he was abroad he would make investigations and probably would return with some information of value. I have culled from the press of the United Kingdom reports of interviews with  Mr. Brown,  giving his impressions of the television broadcast in connexion with the Coronation of  His  Majesty the King.  Mr. Brown  said - 
He saw evidence of great development in recent English experiments and had been impressed with the excellent small scale regular transmissions from Alexandria Palace. Unfortunately the reception radius was very limited - approximately 25 miles. Economic transmissions in Austra.Ua . were impracticable therefore, even in Melbourne or Sydney, or even concentrated areas of population, unless an unexpected advance were made. 
In April, I told  Senator Arkins  that the department was watching the development of television throughout the world, and I have had confirmation of  Mr. Brow7n's  views from  Sir Ernest  Fisk, who is acknowledged to be one of the most eminent authorities on this subject. He expresses the opinion that for commercial purposes in Australia, we shall have to wait a long time before television can be introduced under present known conditions. But with the rapid progress of wireless broadcasting - changes take place from month to month, if not from clay to day - and with improvements in aerials, and technical methods, I doubt that any one is in a position to say definitely what the future holds for us. Wireless broadcasting is one of the most important of Govern men - tal activities, and I plead that it be allowed to function without undue interference or unjust and perhaps uninformed, criticism. In the interests of Australian fair play, and in justice to those men. and that lady who have devoted so much, of their time for comparatively little remuneration to the entertainment and enlightenment of the listening public, I ask honorable senators to give the Broadcasting Commission a reasonable chance to carry on its important work. 
.- In reply to an interjection which I made when the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  was speaking of invalid and old-age pensions, the honorable gentleman stated that I had said that there were other persons in the community to whom restoration of amounts taken from them in the dark days of the depression, had not been made. I alluded to those persons who, during their working years, had saved money to provide a competency for themselves in their declining years, so that they would not be a burden on the community. Many of them were men and women of advanced years, who were living on incomes of £150 or £200 a year derived from savings accumulated during their working years. They suffered the drastic reduction of 22-J per cent, of their incomes. It was called a voluntary . reduction, but there was a considerable measure of compulsion about it. Those people have been given no relief. Not only did they suffer a reduction of interest, but they were also forced to pay a super income tax, in which no exemptions were allowed. That super tax has now been taken off, but the interest rate has not been restored, and is not likely to be. Apparently, the Leader of the Opposition has no sympathy with these people, notwithstanding that public servants, members of Parliament and other sections of the community who made sacrifices, have had full restoration made to them. 
The honorable senator might as well ask why pensions should be paid to some persons in the community who have spent long periods ingaol, or to others who, after having spent the best years of their lives outside of Australia, have returned and, because they are native horn Australians, are given a pension. The class on whose behalf I have spoken are much more deserving of consideration than are some pensioners. No one is more favorable than I am to the payment of pensions to deserving people. I admit that it is difficult to distinguish between those who are deserving and those who are not; but I ask the Government to give earnest consideration to my representations on behalf of those people with small incomes who have been so badly treated. 
For several years we have been told that the income tax returns would be simplified, but if the returns which have had to be filled in by taxpayers lately represent the department's idea of simplicity, I should hate to encounter a form that it regarded as complicated. Every year, more and more information is asked for, thereby increasing the difficulty of filling in the returns. This year an entirely new difficulty "was experienced by persons acting as attorneys for others. I have acted for years as attorney for persons, some of whom are residents of Australia; others are nonresidents. The department refused to accept my signature on the returns as attorney or agent, and insisted on the principals for whom I acted signing the returns in person. In some instances that was practically impossible, and in most cases it served no good purpose because the principals were not as well qualified to certify to the correctness of the returns* as I was. 
In regard to the sales tax returns also, the department is constantly adding to its requirements. When the department spoke of simplification it evidently had in mind simplification from its own point pf view, not from that of the persons submitting the returns. Sales tax returns are so complicated that many companies and firms have to employ special clerks to make them out. It is bad enough to have to pay the tax, but it is worse when the returns have to be made out on a basis that alters almost every month. 
In to-day's  Argus,  reference is made to the shortage of steel in Australia. I asked a question on this subject a few days ago, and received the reply that there was no shortage of steel in Australia, and that figures relating to delivery were not a true indication of the position. Only yesterday, a new customs schedule was tabled in the House of Representatives. A glance at it indicates that there has been a shortage of steel, particularly steel for motor car panels, and that the statement that there was difficulty in obtaining supplies was justified. That bears out the complaint by Richards and Company, of Adelaide, that they could not get sufficient panels for their requirements, and that workmen had to be put off. When the complaint was made, the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  said that he would have something to say about the companies, .financed by American money, which distributed Chrysler and Dodge cars in Australia. I have made inquiries, and find that not one penny of American money is invested in those companies. It is financed entirely by companies in Australia which sell cars of those makes. They had experienced difficulty in obtaining continuity of supplies of motor car bodies, although chassis were arriving regularly from the United States of America. The selling companies in Australia - companies financed with Australian capital and using Australian labour, decided to take an interest in the body-building company in Adelaide in order to ensure regular supplies of motor car bodies. They were only too willing to use Australian steel if they could obtain it. The latest relaxation in regard to the duty on steel panels suggests that there was something in the contention that it was almost impossible to obtain them. 
I congratulate the Government on its defence proposals. Honorable senators know that I have never had a high opinion of the League of Nations as an influence in maintening the peace of the world. I regard the British Commonwealth of Nations as the body most likely to protect the British Empire and maintain peace throughout the world. After doing everything possible to bring about disarmament, Great Britain found that it must re-arm in the interests of peace, and it is now spending millions of pounds on re-armament. Australia must follow Great Britain's example in this respect. I join issue with the Labour party regarding the defence of Australia. I do not agree with that party that we should not take action to defend Australia until the enemy has reached our shores. - That is the fatal defect in the Labour party's defence policy. It is far better that an enemy should be kept at a distance than tha t we should, fight him on our own territory. How can we in Australia expect Great Britain to assist in our defence if we say that we will not go to the assistance of the Old Country in time of trouble? Unfortunately, it appears that we have to face the possibility of war sooner or later, and in that event we shall be called on to do our share to protect our part of tho Empire. That does not mean that there would be conscription. I believe in the voluntary defence of Australia, but I also believe that it is better to defend this country beyond its shores than to wait for an enemy to land here. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission has done excellent work generally, but I do not agree with all that* it has done. Five or six years ago, the commission decided to build a studio, at Hobart. It bought a valuable block of land on which was a residence occupied by a doctor. He and his family were turned out, and the building was demolished. No new building has been erected on the site, which is vacant. It has been said that the commission is waiting for fuller information regarding further improvements of broadcasting studios before erecting a new studio at Hobart, but I doubt this. In addition to buying the block to which I have referred, the commission bought another block on which was an occupied residence. The occupants were turned out and the building has remained empty for several years. The first block purchased is a disgrace to the commission, because it has never even been cleaned up. The commission has displayed no business acumen in its transactions in Hobart. I understand that it has approximately  £93,000  available for building operations, yet, although Hobart has been waiting for years for a new studio, there seems to be no more chance of getting it to-day than there was five or six years ago. What excuse  has the  commission to offer for this delay? Questions have been asked repeatedly in this chamber as to when the new studio will be constructed, but no satisfactory reply has over been given. 
I congratulate the Government on the provision in the budget for the continuance of the apple and pear bounty. The amount proposed to be made available this year, however, is lower than that provided last year. Although, no doubt, the orchardists will be grateful for the bounty which it is proposed to pay this year, I am of opinion that at a time like this, when costs are rising, the amount should not have been reduced. I suggest that the Government might consider approaching the' shipping companies for a reduction of the freight on apples and pears. Although' a reduction of 3d. is to, be made next year, it must not be forgotten that the companies have increased freight rates generally from Great Britain to Australia by 10 per cent. The excess freight they will thus collect will offset many times over the small reduction of freight on apples and pears shipped from Tasmania. As the steamship companies will benefit from the proposal to reduce light dues by £75,000 next year, the Government might very well approach them for a substantial reduction of the freight on apples and pears shipped overseas. As honorable senators are aware the shipping companies load their freight rates with a surcharge of 18 per cent, for exchange. We all know that not all the money paid in freight in Australia is sent to England; a great part of it is spent in Australia on the purchase of ships' supplies, oil, and- other expenses of running their businesses in Australia, and, therefore, the surcharge is unwarranted, particularly in view of the fact that the freight must be paid before the vessel leaves Australian shores. In the event of fruit arriving at its destination in a bad condition, due to a protracted voyage, no responsibility is accepted by the shipping companies, and no rebate of freight is made. I ask that the apple and pear growers of Tasmania be given an increased direct grant. I strongly urge the Government to endeavour to secure for them a reduction of overseas freights. 
The Government proposes to make a large sum of money available for the development of the Newnes shale oilfields, yet apparently nothing is being done to assist in the development of the shale oil deposits at Latrobe in Tasmania: Only a little while ago the company proposing to work the shale deposits at Latrobe had considerable difficulty in securing a reduction of duty on the treatment plant necessary to carry on its operations. At first requested concessions were not entertained, but I am glad to say that the Government has since seen the reasonableness of the requests made, and has agreed to permit such machinery to be landed in Tasmania duty free. The company does not ask for direct assistance, either from the State Government or the Commonwealth Government; therefore, everything possible should be done to assist it towards the profitable production of oil which would be so vital to our welfare in time of war.  
That is a matter for the State government. So far the Commonwealth Government has done everything it has been asked to do in regard to the development of the shale resources of Tasmania. 
I am very pleased that the Government is pushing ahead with its proposal to. institute a system of national insurance in this country, and to that end has placed £75,000 on the Estimates for the purpose of defraying the initial expenses of such a scheme. It may be claimed that the Commonwealth is not ready to go on with the proposal, but the longer we put it off, the more acute will the position become. Invalid and old-age pensions this year will cost approximately £16,000,000, a sum in excess of the whole of the direct taxes levied by the Commonwealth. It is evident, therefore, that we shall have to take early steps to inaugurate a system of national insurance on some stable basis. When a concrete proposal is placed before this Parliament, I trust that, in the interests of the whole of Australia, we shall be able to put it into operation with the least possible delay. 
 I was pleased to hear the references made by  Senator Grant  to the  taxation laws. I believe that they could bc considerably improved. One improvement which I suggest is that primary producers be assessed on the average income derived during the three previous years. At present a taxpayer with an income from personal exertion of £500 pays a tax of £6 7s. 9d., or a total, over three years, of £19 3s. 3d., whereas an unfortunate pastoralist or agriculturalist who for two years has no income at all, but in the third year derives an income of £1,500, has to pay in tax £29 7s. 6d. for that one year, or £10 more than the total tax paid on a regular income of £500 from personal exertion for three years. I suggest that the Government should give serious consideration to the desirability of permitting primary producers to bo assessed on the average income of the preceding three years. 

 Senator James McLachlan made a wellfounded appeal on behalf of the primary producers. I endorse every word he said. We hear and read a good deal about the prosperity which is said to have returned to this country. I do not deny that a certain amount of prosperity now exists, but little of it is enjoyed by the primary producers, who produce the real wealth of this country. In saying that, I have no desire to come into conflict with my friend,  Senator Leckie,  who is a high protectionist. I fully appreciate the value of secondary industries in this country, but the great bulk of the wealth of Australia is produced by the men engaged in pastoral and agricultural pursuits. That cannot be denied. It has been said that the value of buildings erected in the cities of Australia has increased from £S,000,000 five or six years ago to £40,000,000 this year. I like to see the cities improve and advance and made more beautiful, but I shudder to think what will happen to these buildings if tho present policy is pursued. Unless there be prosperity in the outback areas, there can be no assured prosperity in the cities. Therefore, it behoves the Government to draft some long-range policy that will give to the people engaged in the great primary industries of this country some security for the future. It is evident from the enormous building operations carried out in the cities during the last six years that the big financial institu tions have found it more profitable - though it is a short-sighted policy - to finance the erection of urban buildings than to assist those engaged in the primary industries outback. If those who produce the real wealth of the country are neglected the whole country must suffer in consequence. I contend that the financial institutions have not "played the game " during the last six years. Time after time they have refused assistance to men on the land. I speak from experience because I, myself, have been through the mill and know what it is to scratch for a few shillings with which to carry on. Wow that the tide of prosperity has turned I hope that people generally will realize where the real wealth of this country is produced, and that they will be a little more generous in their outlook. The return of prosperity, which is said to he greater now than it has been for many years, immediately creates a desire on the part of the financial institutions to increase rates of interest. Interest rates and exchange rates should be fixed by the Commonwealth Bank, and I hope that the recommendations of the Royal Commission oh Monetary and Banking Reform, in that respect, will be accepted, and that the Government will make a determined effort to see that interest rates are kept as low as possible. The establishment of a long-term mortgage branch of the bank will help primary and secondary industries materially. 
Ever since I came into this chamber I have endeavoured to express my own convictions. No one has ever made my politics for me, and no one ever will. If by any chance the party to which the honorable senator belongs is fortunate enough after the next elections to be sitting on the Government side of this chamber and. I am fortunate enough to be returned in Opposition, he may rely upon my support of any legislation which his government might introduce if I believe it to be in the best interests of this country. There is very little in the blue book issued by the Australian Labour party with which I can agree and if the party depends on the contents of that publication to win the forthcoming election, its chances of success are remote. I am not controlled by any caucus, but I pledge support to a policy that I can- conscientiously live up to. I earned my living before becoming a member of this chamber, and I can do so should I cease to be a member of the Senate; but while I remain here no one shall dictate to me as to the policy I should adopt. 
I was very pleased to see that the vote for the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has been increased, because that institution is rendering a wonderful service to the Commonwealth. I have visited its headquarters in Canberra on several occasions, and while ray stomach has churned while I watched millions of blowflies which are bred in connection with tests to devise a means for combating the blow-fly pest, I could not help admiring the wonderful service which these experts are rendering to the community. I hope that the work of that department will never be impaired by lack of adequate funds.. 
I now come to a subject on which I shall probably cross swords with the Leader of the Opposition,  who in  a tirade of abuse ridiculed four honorable senators who spoke of the results of the Imperial Conference recently held in London. 
No, but if my memory serves me aright only four spoke. 

 Senator Collings. - Fourteen who were interjecting were getting in their poisonous stuff just as readily. 
Three of the speakers are returned soldiers. If the Leader of the Opposition can produce his credentials, I shall show him the reason why I carry my badge in my pocket. instead_of wearing it on. my coat. I said yesterday that I had only an elementary knowledge of defence matters, but I expressed the opinion that I had probably as much knowledge on the subject as have the Leaders of the Labour party in this Parliament. Since reading the blue book, I am more than ever convinced that I know as much of the subject as the members of that party, and I do not now regret what I said. I believe that 
I stated that there are 30 returned soldier members supporting the Government and only two in opposition, but having made a fresh count, I now find that the Government muster is 31. These men, who know the horrors of war, are not likely to plunge the youth of this country into another conflict. The way in which some honorable senators speak suggest that this Government desires to conscript the youth of Australia for overseas service at any time, but I remind the Leader of the Opposition that no man has ever left Australia for military service overseas against his will. 
If Australia's manpower is to be conscripted there should also be a conscription of wealth. 
Many returned soldiers support that policy. It is useless to try to mislead the people, arid to camouflage the actual position as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  tried to do this morning, lie declined an invitation to visit Great Britain during the Coronation ceremonies which would have enabled him to come in close contact with British Ministers and other leading authorities and in that way acquire a better knowledge of how Britain is attempting to secure international peace. By a remarkable coincidence, included in half-a-dozen newspapers which I received from Western Australia this morning was  a  country newspaper which expresses in a leading article opinions similar to those which I gave yesterday. It reads - 
It is generally admitted, also, by exports in all countries that an adequate defence force depends on a nice balance between and thu co-operation of the navy, the array and the air force. Like many who ate devoid of all military knowledge, Messrs. Curtin and Co. interpret defence' as sitting serenely and waiting to be attacked. They render lip service to the ideal of Imperial co-operation in defence but propose to make Australia's co-operation abortive at the outset by insisting that no Australian troops should be called upon to servo overseas, except by the will of the people. 
In other words, if New Zealand, South Africa or Singapore are attacked, we must hold a referendum before we decide to send a single platoon to the aid of a sister dominion or another part of the Empire; and the enemy will obligingly inarch at ease until we do so. Strangely enough,  Mr. Curtin  and his party raised no protest when it was announced in the news that Australians were fighting in the service of the Spanish Government. It is only when it is suggested that we send men abroad to aid in the defence of the Empire or one of its component parts that the matter should become the subject of a referendum and incidentally an issue of party politics. 
When the blue book of the Labour party is available to the people of Australia they will realize that in the matter of defence they can expect very little from that party. Until recently I hoped that the three Labour senators in this chamber would be returned after the next general el notion, but having studied that publi- cation in detail I have alteredmy mind. I regret that the Leader of the Opposition should have made a determined attack upon certain honorable senators this morning. It appears to me that he thinks that while he may attack them indiscriminately they should not have the right to criticize him or the policy of his party. I believe that his tongue was working quicker than his brain. I am pleased to learn that the Government proposes to establish munition factories and other essential defence works, and I trust that some of the expenditure in that direction will be incurred in the less populous States of Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia. It has been suggested, for instance, that the shale deposits in Tasmania should be developed. Further, inquiries should also be made into the possibility of producing power alcohol, which I believe can be undertaken commercially in various parts of Australia, and particularly in Queensland. A partially constructed naval base costing approximately £1,000,000 is lying at Fremantle. There may be good reasons why that work has not been proceeded with, but if such a base is likely to be of value to Australia the work which commenced some years ago should be completed. Further, more adequate provision will have to he made for bases for the storage of fuel oil in Western Australia, which has a tremen dous coastline. Such a base could be established at Albany, which possesses one of the most beautiful natural harbours on the Australian coast, and no expenditure on it would be necessary. Yesterday I asked a question concerning H.M.A.S.  Sydney  and the Minister in reply said that there was nothing in the suggestion which I had brought under his notice. I direct his attention to the following report in the Melbourne  Herald  of the 7th September - 
Darwin Tuesday. -Private advice received here from Broome (Western Australia) confirmed the report - despite official denials - that H.M.A.S.  Sydneyhas  just made a thorough search of the ocean bed near Montalivet Island for an old Dutch man-o-war believed to be lying there. Montlivet Island is off Montague Sound on the north west coast of Western Australia. The result of the search is being kept a secret. 
Probably the Western Australian Government hasrequested that such a search should be made by the H.M.A.S.  Sydney. 
I do not know where the  press  get its information, but I can honestly say that these reports are very close to the mark, because old Dutch relics have definitely been picked up on  that  island and in its vicinity, and  I  believe that, according to aviators who have flown over that particular part, there is a ship there. I should say "there is more behind the rumour than appears on the surface. 
[9.46]. -  in reply  -  Senator Collings  this morning brought up a pensions ease which had some unusual features, and I propose, although it is not customary to deal with detailed cases on the first reading of a Supply Bill, to give now the answer supplied by the Commissioner of Invalid and Old-age Pensions, as follows :  - 
During the debate on the Supply Bill in the Senate this morning.  Senator Collings  referred to a case in which a. claimant had a reversionary interest in an estate. The estate is worth £14,000 and the claimant's share will be £900. Claimant is, however, destitute at present, but notwithstanding this, a pension has been refused. Tlie case is that of Emily J. Stanley., of Wynnum, Queensland, concerning which  Senator Collings  recently made representations to this office.  The claimant is 02 yeans of age. The life tenant is 83 years of age. Allowing for interest at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum, the present value of claimant's reversionary interest (£900) is  £610.  As the limit of property is £400, claimant is disqualified. A reversionary interest in the estate of a deceased person is property for the purposes of the Invalid and Old-Age Pensions Act, even though it  may  not be returning income to a claimant. In that respect only does it differ from government securities, fixed deposits, bank shares, and tlie like. An interest in a reversionary estate can be disposed of or can be used as security for a loan. There are firms which transact this class of business. 
I thought I ought to give the reply to the Senate, as the honorable senator had raised de case. 
I wish to say something about the many interesting subjects that have been raised  in  this debate. First  of  all, I share the disappointment of other honorable senators at  Senator Collings'  failure to elaborate the so-called defence policy of the Labour party. I thought that he would seize the opportunity, after the criticism he heard the other day, to tell us what it really means. 
I know the honorable senator did, but it is so vague and uncertain that it needs explanation. For instance, on page 22 of this blue book, which  Senator Foll  has lent me, I read the following: - 
Labour's defence platform is clear-cut and unequivocal. Broadly, it may be summarized thus : 
Adequate home defence against possible foreign aggression. 
No raising of forces for service outside the Commonwealth, or participation or promise of participation in any future overseas war except by decision of the people. 
That raising of forces obviously docs not relate to conscription, because, during the Great "War, Australia raised a force of over 300,000 men without conscription. They volunteered for service overseas, and, therefore, the meaning of this must be that even if the citizens of Australia were willing and desirous to take part in an expedition overseas for the defence of Australia, that is outside the 3-mile limit, the honorable senator's party would not allow them to go, until first they had obtained the consent of the people. They could obtain that consent in only one of two ways - either by an election or by a referendum. Surely it is a practical thing to consider how such a policy would operate in these days of sudden warfare, in fact, of aggression without a declaration of war? We have seen several instances of that lately. There  i3  a conflict going on in the East to-day in which, up till now, there has been no declaration of war, although thousands of people have been killed. It is of no use to shut our eyes, to these cruel facts. We have to recognize them. The honorable senator was good enough to let me peruse the proofs of his remarks to-day, as I happened to be absent when he was speaking, and I noticed that he referred to the foundation of the Australian Navy by the Fisher Labour Government. I was the* Minister for Defence in that Government, and I well remember the strenuous work that devolved on me in the preparations that had to be made to obtain and equip the first ships, and raise the necessary crews. The honorable senator says that the policy of the Labour party is the same as that of the Fisher Labour Government. He says that it has not altered, tout the naval defence policy of the Fisher Labour Government made specific provision to enable those ships to go to any part of the world. As the Labour Minister for Defence in 1911, I attended an imperial conference, and, with the authority of the Labour Government, and the consent of the Labour party, I signed an agreement by which - not merely in a time of war. but in a time of emergency - those ships could be placed at the disposal 'of the Admiralty to fee sent anywhere. As a matter of fact, the agreement drawn up by the Fisher Labour Government was operated when the Great War broke out. As soon as the British Government notified the Australian Government that ' a state of emergency had arisen, those ships were at once placed by the Aus-  tralian- Government under the orders of the British Admiralty, and remained under those orders for the whole period of the war. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. the Cook Government was in office at the time the war broke out, but the agreement under which that was done was tlie one drawn up at the Imperial Conference of 1911, and, signed by myself as a representative of the Fisher Labour Government of Australia. How can  Senator Collings  say that the policy of the Labour party of to-day is on' all fours with the policy of the Fisher Labour Government? It differs fundamentally on that very point. It is obvious that, if a policy such as that of Labour at present is to operate, it can only operate when war takes place on our own soil - when the enemy has already landed!. We have only to look at the horrible pictures published recently, showing the wreckage of Chinese towns, to appreciate what might- happen. Does the honorable senator want that sort of thing to take place before the men of Australia can go to the defence of their homes, wives and children? 
But the honorable senator will not prevent it.. He will invite it. He is saying to the enemy : " You can do what you like outside the three-mile limit, we will take no action until you actually land upon our coast ". 
If words mean anything, this blue book says it, because it says that the Labour party will not send any men overseas. It stipulates that there shall be no raising of' forces for service outside the Commonwealth. The Navy is enlisted to-day for service outside the Commonwealth. There is no restriction in our Defence Act, and the- government of the day, if a threat of war occurred, could send the Navy to any part of the world. 
It would be absolutely useless otherwise. That is why I think the Labour party has had one gleam of logic, and has spoken in such a hostile spirit of the navy. Members of the Opposition have shown that they have no time for a navy; they do not value it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Leaders of the Labour party have deprecated the value of out Navy, and that is why they are confining themselves to, and finding such great virtue in, an air force. I too have a great belief in what an air force can do. I notice that honorable senators speak of bombers. What are they going to bomb? Bombers are not very ornamental machines, and cannot be there just for ornament. I take it that the Labour party are not going to bomb their own cities, towns or ships. I should imagine that they would want bombers to attack the enemy's ships1 that were approaching our shores'. Are they going to wait until the enemy's ships come inside the three-mile limit?' 
They must, under this policy, because although we have enlisted men in the air forces for service outside the Commonwealth, they say in this blue book, "No raising of forces for service outside the Commonwealth."' As soon as ever one of these planes gets outside the three-mile limit, it will be outside the Commonwealth. Therefore, the Labour party is enlisting the air force for service outside the Commonwealth, unless it says that the planes shall not bomb any enemy ship until it comes within the three-mile limit. 
I invite the members of the Labour party, before they proceed to revise this bine book - and they will have to revise it in the light of common sense - when they next go to Sydney to ask permission of the defence authorities to visit the new forts that have been provided on North Head. When they see those nine-Inch guns, let them ask the officer what their range is, and they will find that, if the bombers are to be of any service at adi, they will have to operate some 20 miles or more from the coast of Australia. 
But honorable senators have said something right against that. 
Yes, your policy says so. I do ask the honorable senator, if he concedes that the navy is free to operate outside the threemile limit, or that the air force is free to do so, what is the difference between three miles, ten miles, and 100 miles. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Our policy is to raise men for the defence of Australia and to use them where they will be most effective for that purpose. That may be 1,000 miles from the coast of Australia. It may be that our most effective contribution to the defence of Australia would be to reinforce Singapore, but according to the policy set out in the blue book, neither the air force nor the Navy may be sent to Singapore, although that might be the most effective contribution that we could make to the defence of Australia. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Certainly not. 
That would be defending our own country. The policy in this blue book completely prevents us from taking part in the defence of any other part of the Empire. What position are we in to defend ourselves against a first-class power if we are not to get the support of the other dominions, and especially of the Mother Country? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable gentleman gave us what he claimed were the views of other dominion leaders, but he stripped them from their context, and so misrepresented them. I am sure he did not accurately state the opinion of a gentleman like General Smuts. That distinguished Empire statesman would be the last to suggest that the best place to fight, an enemy is in one's own territory. Having had .experience of war on his native soil, I am certain that he would prefer to meet an enemy on the borders of Egypt instead of in the Union of South Africa. 
Another interesting paragraph dealing with Labour's defence policy appears on page 22 of this little book - 
The Australian Labour party expresses its greatest abhorrence of war and fascism, and urges that the Commonwealth Government should endeavour to establish and maintain friendly relations with other nations. 
We all join in Labour's abhorrence of war. I venture the opinion that this feeling of abhorrence is more positive on this side of the chamber than on the Opposition side, because so many Government supporters have had experience of war, and know what it means. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.This booklet tells us that the Australian Labour party abhors war and fascism. What is meant by fascism? I take it that our Labour friends abhor fascism because it is opposed to our democratic system of parliamentary government. 
In other words, fascism is a dictatorship, find that, 1 suggest, is the reason for Labour's objection to it. But is it not equally .true that communism is also a system of dictatorship? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Therefore, if fascism is abhorred by Labour, what is the reason for differentiating between fascism and communism? 
But Labour does so differentiate. And  i3  there any reason why Labour should not abhor the Nazi system of government in Germany? That, also, is a dictatorship, and, therefore, is opposed to our parliamentary form of government. Also, can the Leader of the Opposition seriously argue that the Communist Soviet Republic is a democratic system of government? Actually, it is just as absolute a dictatorship as is fascism in Italy or nazi-ism in Germany. This being so, I am wondering why Labour singles out fascism, and remains silent about communism and nazi-ism. 
The attitude of the Labour party towards fascism reminds me of the story told of a young preacher who had an engagement to preach in a country town of South Australia. In conversation with a wily old gentleman who was one of the church elders, he announced his intention to denounce a number of things that were nice but wrong,, including racing. The local church leader heard him patiently, and then said, " I would not say too much against racing, because racing is so popular in this town." "When the young preacher said he would denounce some other local evil, he again met with the warning not to say too much about it. "But," added the old gentleman, "you will be on safe ground in denouncing the publicans because there are only two of them in this town." Thus it would seem that the Labour party, in declaring its abhorrence of war and fascism, displayed a certain amount of craft, because every one abhors war and comparatively few people in Australia believe in fascism. But again I ask, why is the Labour party silent about communism and nazi-ism? 
Another interesting statement, to be found on page 11 of Labour's blue book, is the following: - 
The part played by the Federal Labour Government in the rehabilitation of the finances of the Commonwealth is not generally known. Nor are many people aware of (.hp benefits that accrued as a result of Labour's policy. 
When  Mr. Scullin  was Prime Minister, despite the hostility of financial circles, he converted £536.000,000 of Australian loan money to a rate of interest equivalent to about one half  of the ruling rate. 
It is really amusing to read that the author of Labour's blue book claims credit for the Labour party in connexion with the conversion of the Australian internal debt. What are the facts? The conversion arrangement was part of the Premiers plan. 
 Yes, it was in the original  pa.n,  which had to be taken as a whole. -The Scullin Government, to its credit be it said, took all the odium and responsibility for submitting the Premiers plan to the Federal Parliament. I suppose every honorable ' senator is aware of the reception which the bill received from Government supporters. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Debt Conversion Agreement Bill was before the House of Representatives in June, '1931, and the division list  on  the motion for the second reading showed that sixteen of the Labour  Government's  supporters voted for it, and twenty against it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That boast is on a par with the claim  of  the present Labour party that the present Austraiian Labour party enacted the legislation establishing the Commonwealth Bank and giving to the people  of  this country the invalid and old-age pensions law. To liken the nebulous and equivocal policy of the present Labour party to the policy of the Labour party in 1911 is to suggest, that black is white. Labour's policy in 1911 was so definite that the wayfaring man could understand it. Because it was so positive and definite  the people of Australia entrusted the Labour party of that day with power in this Parliament. I am quite sure that they will not put in power the present Labour party because its alleged policy, as outlined in this blue book, is merely a nebulous and meaningless abstraction. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
[10.10]. - I move- 
That thebill be now read a second time. 
The provision granted by Parliament in June last in Supply Act (No. 1) for 1937-38 covered the first two months of the financial year. The bill now before the Senate provides for an appropriation of £8,323,000 from revenue to cover expenditure for a further four months up to the end of December next. It is based on the appropriations for the last financial year, and the items represent approximately one-third of those appropriations with two exceptions. The first relates to the salaries of the Public Service. As in the case of Supply Act (No. 1) allowance has been made in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Act and other regulations to meet increases due to the rise of the cost of living. The second exception relates to the cost of elections, for which it has been found necessary to provide in this hill for the full amount required, namely, £115,000. The amount shown in the bill for ordinary services may be summarized as follows :  - 

<graphic href="154332193709083_72_0.jpg"></graphic>

In addition, in accordance with practice, provision has been made for refunds of revenue and advance to the Treasurer, the amounts being £400,000 and £500,000 respectively. The Government has already submitted a bill covering appropriations for grants to the States of South 
Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania in accordance with the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It desires to proceed with the bill covering an appropriation for works and buildings. It is, however, not anticipated that it will be possible to pass the Annual Appropriation Act during the present session. For this reason supply for four months is necessary. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses one to four agreed to. 
Schedule. 

 Proposed votes - The Parliament, £35,320; Prime Minister's Department, £153,800; Department of External Affairs, £4,220; Department of the Treasury, £261,420; AttorneyGeneral's Department, £64,270 - agreed to. 

 Proposed vote, £146,280. 
In view of the fact that the Estimates are not likely to be before the Senate for several months, can the Minister supply some information regarding several items associated with the meteorological branch, the solar observatory, and the forestry branch? 
As regards the meteorological branch, it appears that several items appear for the first time. It will be within the memory of honorable senators that some years ago it was suggested that some of the State meteorological branches should cease to exist, and that only three should remain, of which the Commonwealth branch should be one. Can the Minister say whether that proposal has gone any further ? It was generally agreed that there was no necessity for so many branches, beyond the fact that no State wished to give up its own meteorological service. Apparently, some members of the central and Victorian staffs have disappeared, for the numbers have been reduced, whereas in other places the members remain substantially the same. 
Can the Minister supply any information about the meteorological station in the Northern Territory? Is it to be  replaced by an aviation section? That may be an excellent idea, but it represents au increase of  £17,032  a year, and the employment of  51  new officers. An explanation of the intentions of the Government would be appreciated. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  will .remember that I have repeatedly urged that the higher personnel of the Solar Observatory should be brought up to establishment. That has not been the case since the commencement of the observatory. The first director,  Dr. Duffield,  died during the depression, and his place has not been filled. It is not easy to fill it, because of the special knowledge required. I understand that the observatory has been carried on under the direction of the gentleman who was  Dr. Duffield's  second assistant. Probably he has some assistance; but I do not think that any of the men under him has specialized and skilled knowledge. I am sure that the Minister will agree that it is useless to employ a number of hands at a solar observatory unless there is expert guidance from the top. There must be a first class man at the head of it. The number of the staff remains the same. The amount which was voted for the last year was not reached, and a somewhat similar vote is being made for this year, but the number of temporary and casual employees is increasing. Except for the purpose of providing employment, it is useless to have additional casual and temporary employees. t This is a highly skilled occupation, and there  are few trained people capable of carrying out the duties. Unless there are at the top highly-skilled men, the observatory might as well be closed down, and the special instruments, some of which were given to us, returned to the donors. 
I should like some information also about the Forestry Branch. There have been suggestions that this branch should be closed, and what one may call petitions and counter-petitions -have been presented. Will the Leader of the Senate be good enough to say where the matter now stands? 
[30.23]. -  I shall deal first with the Meteorological Branch. The number of permanent positions provided for under the aviation plan has increased from  92  in  1936-37  to  151  in  1937-38.  The list shows one meteorological assistant for Port Darwin, so it is evident that the station there is not being abandoned. The expenditure under aviation last year was  £30,008.  The increase for  1937-38,  which is approximately  £18,500,  is almost entirely due to the creation of the new positions referred to. They have been made by the establishment of aviation meteorological sections to assist in developing and protecting, as far as possible, civil and military aviation activities. The officers are to undergo special training in forecasting and research, and will ultimately be stationed at various aerodromes throughout the Commonwealth. The amount of  £48,500  includes provision for automatic increases, increases under arbitration awards and adjustments under Public Service regulations.. An amount of  £800  has been included for payment to officers on retirement. 
I listened sympathetically to the honorable senator's remarks in relation to the solar observatory, which was a pet child of mine in years gone by. I am glad to say that it is proposed to  call world-wide applications shortly for the position of director. That indicates that the Minister shares the view of  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that there must be a first class man at the head of that branch. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Some progress was made, but it was found that certain States would not give way. No agreement has been reached. 
In the Forestry Branch permanent positions have been created, and pending permanent appointments to them, some temporary officers have been appointed, thereby increasing the cost of casual employees. There are five students at the school who should remain a further two years, and it is anticipated that more t students will be enrolled next year. I hope that that anticipation will be realized, for the school is performing useful service. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department op Defence. 

 Proposed vote, £1,743,180. 
 I should like some information regarding the Munitions Supply Branch, particularly in relation to subdivision B of division 79 dealing  with "Munitions Establishments and Factories ". Is there any provision in this bill for the extension of factories for the manufacture of munitions, and, if so, is provision made for the construction of a factory in Western Australia? 
It would assist honorable senators if another column were added to the schedule, in order to indicate the expenditure over a similar period of the preceding year. 
It would be of assistance if it were contained in this bill. 
It is not too late to start with the improvement. In the Estimates the expenditure for the previous twelve months is given; this bill deals only with a period of four months. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [10.29].  -  There is no provision in this bill for the erection of any munitions factories anywhere'. Provision for such buildings would be made in a  works bill. The asterisk shown against subdivision B of division 79 indicates that the £94,180 is to be paid to the credit of various trust funds. The money will be used for the purchase of materials, and to meet expenditure incurred in connexion with the process of manufacture.. It will not be used for buildings. 
 Will any of it be used to purchase machinery? 
The honorable senator suggested that an extra column should be inserted in the Supply Bill to give additional information. As I explained in my secondreading speech, this, bill is based on last year's appropriation. There would be nu object in inserting another column, for the expenditure proposed is merely onethird of the total for the previous year. Parliament is not asked to vote money for something of which it knows nothing. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed .votes - Department of Trade and Customs, £197,720; Department of Health, £41,870; and Department of Commerce, £142,400  -  agreed to. 
Miscellaneous Services. 

 Proposed vote, £320,620.' 
Provision of £160 is made under item 1, division 105, for " maternity allowances paid under special circumstances. " Recently, I was approached by a very poor woman who, being illiterate and unaware of the requirements of the regulations that application must be made for a maternity allowance within three months of the date of the birth of a child, failed to lodge her application in respect of the birth of one of her children within the prescribed time. Is the provision in the Supply Bill for the payment of maternity allowances under special circumstances inserted to cover cases such as this? I trust that the Leader of the Senate can give me some hope that provision will be made for this unfortunate woman, notwithstanding the fact that her claim for the allowance was not rendered in strict accordance with the law. 
[10.34].- I regret that I cannot give the honorable senator that assurance. Provision has been made to cover cases which, strictly speaking, do not come within the terms of the act and regulations. There have been cases in respect of which the act has not been strictly applied, the surrounding circumstances warranting payment of the allowance as an act of clemency. I suggest that the honorable senator should make representations to the Treasurer concerning the case to which he has referred. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - "War Services,  £381,900  - agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - Commonwealth KailWays,  £157,000. 

 Senator ARKINS (New South Wales)  [10.35J. -  Some time ago a break of gauge device registered as Patent No.  19,952  of  1934,  was demonstrated in this building. It was claimed by the inventor that the device would successfully overcome the difficulties associated with the breaks of gauge in the railway system throughout the Commonwealth, and that its use. would save the expenditure of many millions of pounds for the reconstruction of lines in order to secure a uniform gauge throughout. Is tho Leader of the Senate able to give honorable senators any information as to what has been done in regard to this device?  1  understand that the inventor was given an undertaking by the Minister for the Interior that an order would be placed for the construction of a demonstration model of full size in order to test its efficacy. Have the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner and his experts found the invention satisfactory or otherwise, and will the Leader of the Senate obtain a report as to the position in regard to it at the present time ? 
[10.36]. -  No provision for any investigation of that kind is made in this bill. If the honorable senator will give me particulars of the device to which he referred, I shall obtain the information ho requires from the Minister for the Interior. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Postmaster-General's Department,  £3,583,000;  Northern Territory,  £81,520;  Federal Capital Territory,  £92,730;  Papua,  £14,750  ; Norfolk Island,  £1,000;  Refunds of Revenue,  £400,000  ; and Advance to the Treasurer,  £500,000-  agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill  2-eported  without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
Having in mind the spread of dictatorships in the world in the form of Nazi-ism, Fascism, or Communism, I ask the Leader of the Senate whether the attention of the Government has been directed to the following statement, which appears in the forefront of the blue book issued on behalf of the Australian Labour party by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin)  in the House of Representatives - 
In view of the statement which I have rea.d from Labour's blue book, will the Government consult with the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives to see what safeguards can be devised in the event of the Labour party reaching the treasury bench, to preserve the democracy of this nation against the possibility of the executive of the New South Wales Lang Labour party establishing a dictatorship through the New South Wales parliamentary group, without whose consent the Federal Labour party will be unable to govern in the Commonwealth ? 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether  Mr. Lyons  was appointed Leader of the United Australia party by the voluntary vote of the United Australia party caucus, or was he elected by an outside oligarchy? I. ask the question because it was one addressed to me at a meeting which I attended recently, and I was unable to answer it. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether the Government has received a letter from the Premier of Western Australia intimating that the State government views very unfavorably, and is opposed to, the bill for the adoption by the Commonwealth 
Parliament of the Statute of Westminster? If so, will he give full consideration to the representations contained in the letter before proceeding further with the measure? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether his attention has been directed to the following statement which appeared in the Perth  Sunday Times  on the 22nd August : - clearlyrebukeslyons. 

 Mr. Cleary is  chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This unusual gentleman won notice by successfully managing a brewery. He had a brief and unbrilliant spell as Commissioner of Railways in New South Wales, and has now taken it on himself to putthe Prime Minister in his place. The daily press calls it "  Mr. Cleary's  Curt Reply ". This indicates in tone and purpose that he talks to the Prime Minister in that same corrective way in which he might have addressed a truck driver when he was a brewery manager. Of course, in the latter capacity,  Mr. Cleary  had the authority, for the truck driver was his employee. Is the Prime Minister, the head of Australia, on behalf of whose people he employs  Mr. Cleary,  going to permit this reversal of relationship?  Mr. Cleary  holding the same relative position to the Prime Minister that the truck driver held to himself tells his employer justwhat he will allow him to do. 
The man equivalent to the truck driver tells the boss where he gets off - a shocking example of job control.  Mr. Cleary  isa most important man. He is also very amiable. He is versatile. He can even correct foreign impressarios on the accents of their own languages. He modestly admits all these things himself. It is questionable, however, if the dignity of the Government is enhanced by permitting itself to be bossed by an employee, despite his extraordinary range of gifts. If  Mr. Cleary's  curt reply standsunrebuked by the Prime Minister, then we witness a spectacle resembling that of a ship being directed, not by the commander on the bridge, but by one of the men in the galley. In what other country would such an attitude be tolerated? 
I am not in the habit of making a collection of extracts from press reports. I have not seen the report referred to, but I have now heard from the honorable senator the statement which he says is contained in the newspaper mentioned. It is entirely contrary to fact. The Prime Minister was assured by  Mr. Cleary  that the statements attributed to him were not correctly reported, and the Prime Minister- 
There was no apology, because there was no need for one. There was, however, need for an explanation, and the Prime Minister, big man that he is, accepted that offered by  Mr. Cleary. 
When an application for naturalization has been refused on numerous occasions, notwithstanding that the applicant's friends know nothing against him, does the Leader of the Senate think that a member of this Parliament, who has interested himself in the case, should be refused the reasons? Is it possible for an honorable senator to obtain from the Minister for the Interior the reasons for such refusals in the case of particular persons on whose behalf he may make inquiry, or is it a general rule to refuse to give the reasons ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE. The Minister for the Interior deals with all naturalization matters, and I suggest that if the honorable senator is interested in a particular case, he should call on the Minister in regard to it. I do not see how the Minister could very well reply to a hypothetical question, but if the honorable senator were to accept my suggestion I am sure that the Minister would explain why the reasons were not made known. 
I referred not to a hypothetical case, but to an actual one. I saw the Minister for the Interior about it, and he practically refused to give the reasons why the application for naturalization was refused. Have not I, as a member of this Parliament, the right to know the reasons? 
I give notice of question for to-morrow. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has tlie Government received the following resolution, carried at the annual conference of the Primary Producers' Association of Western  Australia,  held at Perth on the 11th August last: - "This conference affirms its belief in the desirability and practicability of prohibiting the export of wool below a minim urn average reserve price, providing that such reserve price be fixed by a committee of experts to be appointed by the growers, and requests the Commonwealth Government immediately to investigate ways and means with a view to bringing into operation such amendments of new legislation as are necessary?" 
What action lias been taken to give effect to this resolution? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable the Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
Yes. 
The Government would not consider any change in the present system of wool sales unless organization representing a majority of wool production requested thu change. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
How many sittings of the Senate have taken place since October, 1934? 
How. many times has  Senator Sir Walter  Massy-Greene been absent  (a)  with leave;  ( b  ) without leave ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
112. 
With leave, 8. Without leave, 89. 
asked the Minister in charge of Scientific and Industrial Research,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to continue the experiments with virus for the eradication of rabbits ? 
Will the Minister state the progress made to date with such experiments? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows : - 
Laboratory experiments in connexion with the use of the rabbit virus known as myxomatosis are continuing, and the question as to whether the virus will be used for large scale controlled  experiements  will be determined in the light of the final results of the work now being carried out, and bearing in mind the facilities which can be secured for the purpose of large scale experiments. 
Extensive experiments so far conducted show that the disease is so highly specific to rabbits that it cannot be produced in other animals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Government take steps to assure that adequate supplies of petrol are stored in Australia in containers throughout the Commonwealth in inconspicuous places? 
Will the Government push on with distillation of fuel oil in Australia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers : - 
Contracts are in existence with oil companies whereby stocks of aircraft fuels and special lubricating oils are maintained at certain isolated places throughout Australia. The position in regard to petrol for motor transport is not so acute, but plans embracing removal of supplies to inland localities in the event of emergency, and the provision of reserve stocks are receiving attention. A departmental committee keeps these and other aspects of oil fuel, petrol, and associated commodities in relation to defence continuously under review. 
Yes. The agreement between the governments of the Commonwealth and New South Wales and National Oil Proprietary Limited provides that the company, before commencing production, shall, at its own- cost, install such additional plant as shall be .necessary to permit of the production of fuel oil suitable for use in the Royal Australian Navy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - * 
Whether he has seen the report published in the Hobart press of Saturday last, in which the Deputy Lord Mayor of Hobart had stated that the only matter holding up the completion of the negotiations for the removal of the Sandy Bay Rifle Range was the proviso insisted upon that the council should indemnify the Federal Government against damage that might be claimed on account of loss of life to those who might trespass on the new range at Glenorchy ? 
Will the Minister state if the above report is correct, or what the position really is? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answer: - 1 and 2. The extract from the Hobart  Mercury  of Saturday last, has been noted. Although the matter of the location of the Sandy 
Bay Rae Range by the Commonwealth was, at one stage, held up owing to the difficulty of the Hobart City Council in financing the project, this is not now the position. The only  major  difficulty now existing is with regard to the indemnification of the Commonwealth in respect to any possible claims in the event of accident on the Glenorchy water reserve area. The position is that, in addition to the range proper, the Commonwealth requires firing rights over portion of the water reserve area and, as the Commonwealth has no real control over that area, the indemnification clause was included in the draft agreement now being discussed between the Department of Defence and the Hobart City Council. This clause was considered necessary as the Defence Department would not be in a position to protect or control any trespassers on the water reserve area, nor could it control the use to which the land might be put at some later date. It was not considered reasonable, therefore, that the Common-wealth should accept responsibility for possible claims due to any accident which may be sustained on that area. The matter is being explored, however, with a view to ascertaining if the Commonwealth can obtain  more definite rights over the water reserve area so- that consideration may be given to the elimination of the  indemnification   clause in the agreement. 
When this debate was adjourned last week, I was dealing" with the subject of defence. In my opening remarks, I said that I proposed to deal with the subject in general terms, because the proceedings of the Imperial Conference were themselves recorded in general terms. The precise point that I was discussing when the debate was adjourned was a matter, mentioned by  Senator Collings,  relating to the contributions of the different parts of the Empire. I emphasize that that is not a very material question. In the nature of things, one part of the Empire may find that it is essential that it should pay much .more for its defence than another part, which is in a more favorable position, feels called upon to pay. I took the statistics which the Leader of the Opposition gave in this chamber on the 26th August and assumed that they were correct. I have no reason to think that they_ are not. The latest statistics on Empire defence show the  per capita  expenditure as follows: New Zealand, 12s. 7d. ; Canada, 5s. 7d.r South Africa, 3s.  5d. ;  and Australia, £1 ls. lOd. It will be seen that, on that basis, Australia's contribution is the largest ; it is nearly twice that of New Zealand, four times that of Canada, and six times that  of South Africa. I went on to say that the  per capita  contribution in Great Britain is very much greater than any of the others - in fact, it is greater than all of them together. It is difficult to get reliable figures because the expenditure this year lias gone up so tremendously, but I quoted figures to show that the cost per head of the population of Great Britain was probably between £5 10s. and £6. Since I spoke on this subject, I have made further inquiries, and I understand that Great Britain's contribution is now nearly £7 a head. That is an enormous contribution for the centre part of the Empire to make. The Government of Great Britain may consider that it is acting in the interests of the safety of not only the Mother Country but also the Empire as a whole; but I point out that if danger to . Great Britain exists in European waters, we in Australia are a long way from the rest of the Empire in the event of an attack being made on our shores. We ought to face the position, with a view to finding out what contribution is necessary for our own safety, rather than that we should say that we are contributing more than any other dominion is doing. The amount has really very little to do with the subject, except that, it shows that there has been a general contribution. It may be urged that Canada's contribution is only 5s. 7d. a head, but, as  Senator Guthrie  pointed out a few days ago, the position of Canada is entirely different from that of Australia. Canada has the Atlantic Ocean on one side and the Pacific Ocean on the other. To the south, it joins the United States of America. It is useless to make comparisons in this matter. Taking a narrow view we might say that Canada appears to be just about as safe as is any other country in the world. It is impossible for honorable senators to keep pace with all the literature that comes to them, but I suggest that those who are interested in the subject of Empire defence should read two short articles in the June number of  Bound Table  - one from Canada on Canadian defence, and the other from South Africa on South African defence. In about 20 pages, that magazine gives the kernel of the defence problem as it affects those two dominions. Under the heading " Imperial Conference " the article states - 
It is perfectly clear that the conference recognizes that it is the sole responsibility of the several parliaments of the British Commonwealth to decide the nature and scope of their own defence policy. 
That fact makes it the more incumbent upon us- to go ahead with our own defence programme and to see that our defence expenditure is as great and as well placed as it ought to be. We would be wise to be more realistic in these matters, and not to be so governed by vague hopes and desires in which the whole world shares. In other words we should try to think clearly.  Dr. Johnson  has an admirable remark, which - I speak from memory - runs something like this : " Clear your mind of cant; you may talk foolishly - it is a custom of society - but do not think foolishly." It is essential that people should think clearly about this question and give up their idealistic eulogy of the League of Nations, they should abandon the complacent attitude which, may be expressed - " Leave it to the League of Nations and all will be well." This is the time when we must look towards the safeguarding of our own country; we should not leave it to the League of Nations. I found that on the other side of the world the League of Nations is scarcely mentioned except in parliament and on the public platform. It may not be a palatable thing to say, but I agree largely with  Mr. Curtin  who said that the chances of making anything like a Pacific pact would be much greater if we did not adopt trade diversion policies which operate chiefly against the United States of America, the Dominion of Canada, and Japan, three of our greatest neighbours in the Pacific. 
Perhaps the honorable senator would give us some details of that .later on. I repeat that it was my experience that the League of Nations is not much discussed abroad except in public. People in England, through centuries of experience are realists; they recognize that they may have to defend themselves with their own arms and they have good cause to know that. One of the reasons why I have great admiration for the new Prime Minister of Great Britain is that, although an idealist, he is essentially a realist in his attitude to facts ; that is the attitude which I am urging that we should take. When a proposal such as the Newnes proposal is placed before us - this I am afraid will not appeal to  Senator Arkins  - I greatly wonder whether the money which we can afford to spend will be spent in the best possible way. The decision to assist in the development of Newnes shale is ostensibly for the purpose of defence, but I understand that no production can commence for eighteen months or two years, and that even then the amount of oil that will be produced will be totally inadequate to meet our requirements in time of war. Furthermore, the expenditure on this project will be very great. These three factors shake my confidence, not to put it more strongly, that the money we can afford to spend is being spent in the best possible way. 
Supporting what  Senator Brand  said - be speaks with more authority than I can with regard to the important subject of defence - I, personally, ' wish that we relied more on the views of our very distinguished Australian generals.  Senator Brand  mentioned  Sir Harry  Chauvel and  Sir Brudenell  White, who are members of the Defence Council, but, so far as I know, that body very seldom meets. We have other great generals in Australia, and if the defence of this country is to be left entirely to us, it is desirable that we should have all of the chief experts on defence in this country to guide us. I am not criticizing the permanent heads of the department when I say that the responsibility for the national defence is too big a load to be carried by any three men. We should be only too glad to have the advice of those great soldiers of this country who proved their ability during the last Great War. In tddition to the generals mentioned by  Senator Brand,  I would suggest that we have, at least, three other famous Australian generals -  Sir Thomas  Blarney,  Sir John  Gellibrand, and  Sir William  Glasgow. No one would suggest that they are not experienced in the tactics and strategy of modern warfare. Are their services being utilized in any way? If not, it is desirable that they should be. 
What impressed me as the most definite of the moves of the Imperial Conference - we cannot gauge some of its other moves - was the final paragraph on trade. The summary of proceedings recited how  Sir Walter  Runciman opened the discussion with a comprehensive statement on trade questions, and outlined the steps which had been taken by the Government of the United Kingdom since 1932 in the pursuit of its policy to take whatever action was open to it to assist in the removal of the barriers to international trade. I do not wish to labour the subject, and I shall content myself with reading the following conclusions of the conference : - 
Hie outstanding feature of the discussion was the emphatic desire expressed by the representatives of every part of the British Commonwealth represented at the conference that all practicable steps should be taken to secure the stimulation of international trade. It was recognized that in the last resort the prosperity of the countries of the Commonwealth depends on that of the world as a whole, and that a healthy growth of international trade, accompanied by an improvement in the general standard of living, is an essential step to political appeasement. 
That is the final and emphatic conclusion of all the governments represented at the conference, and it is for us to see that this, conclusion is put into effect here just as much as in any part of the British Empire. 
There 33 still ample room for much more to be done in that respect. 
I do not think that that is so. The British Government has been prepared for years to keep down trade barriers. Indeed, it only put up trade barriers in self protection. I am speaking only in general terms ; this is not the occasion for a tariff debate. In any case, I have discussed the tariff here so often that the honorable senator knows as. well as I do exactly where I stand on this matter, and to accept his invitation would be to open up a debate in detail, which I have no desire to do to-day. 
I mentioned that I am surprised to see that no mention has been made in the Imperial Conference report of the important subject of migration. That subject has to be faced and ought to be faced frankly. It is not one in which there is any necessity for secrecy, as there is in connexion with the important subjects of foreign affairs and defence. Migration can be, and should be, freely discussed, and the sooner an influx of migrants into this country  starts  the better. I suggest that we should endeavour to attract British people first. In this connexion, I say now that I adhere to the view which I put forward years ago in the House of Representatives, that we should take what people we can get from the western side of Europe - using the term as a convenient one - as people of the type most similar to ourselves. This enormous country is populated by far too few people. We are always being told that we need more people to consume both our primary and secondary products; indeed most of our secondary goods can never be sold to anybody but our own people, so an increase of population would benefit those industries. And, of course, the more people we have the better will be the defence of this country. I regret that no mention has been made of migration in the Imperial Conference report. There has, however, been a good deal of reference to nationality, a matter which is of importance, but rather technical a.nd minor in  comparison  with the bigger issues I have mentioned. 
Two impressions perhaps remain predominant in my mind after an experience of more than six months on the other side of the world. The first is the great contrast between the situation that exists in the Homeland, and that in most of the countries on the Continent. To travel from Europe to Great Britain is almost to go into a totally different zone. We are fortunate, I suggest, to belong to an empire which, at the moment, at any rate, is in such a relatively happy position and we should be wise in our own interests, if for no more exalted reason, to adhere to it and do our best to make it strong. I emphasize again the great desirability of contact between the different parts of the Empire, such as occurred in London this year, probably more thoroughly than ever before. Not only were all the parts of the Empire coming to the same meeting place and discussing their problems, whether openly or not, and discussing them, I suggest, in the best of temper, with tolerance and friendliness, but many foreigners also came there in a friendly way, and had a similar reception. They, I think, went away with a better opinion of the Imperial connexion of the British Empire than  they  had ever had before. I was a schoolboy on the other side of the world at the time of Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee, and that was the only other experience I had had of anything in the nature of a Coronation. I remember the scene vividly, although it is a good many years ago. It seems to me in retrospect that at that time there was perhaps, a certain spirit, not of aggressiveness, but of what some people might call jingoism, in the air, which was very different from the attitude that one felt on every side on this occasion. This Coronation was a. time at which the whole Empire rejoiced, but rejoiced quietly, without antagonism to others, and, it seemed to me, in a spirit of real humility. 
I had intended last night to say a few words with particular reference to some questions which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  had addressed to me, but I am glad now that I did not, because we, and the members of the Opposition, were given the opportunity to hear what the Leader of the Senate  (Senator 
Pearce) had to say on the  subject  of defence. There were, however, some remarks which the Leader of the Opposition made in his speech on this motion to which I should like to reply. It i» somewhat significant that only yesterday the honorable senator thought it necessary when he had the opportunity of  speaking,  to plunge at once into the defence policy of his party. I say that that is significant, because he has had so many opportunities to speak upon it that evidently he has realized that the more he explains it, the more it needs explaining, and will possibly need amendment before it goes much further. The honorable senator almost opened his speech with what I suppose was a rhetorical question : What is Labour's defence policy? To that  Senator Hardy  interjected that that was what we should all like to know. My first reaction to it was to ask that notice be given of the question, because I thought that, if we went through the utterances of the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, we might find out exactly what was Labour's defence policy as he understood it. He has made several attempts to explain what it is. For instance, in September, 1935, a statementwas made in this chamber by the Leader of the Senate on the Italo-Abyssinian situation. On that occasion, speaking to the formal motion that the paper be printed, the Leader of the Opposition gave his views and the views of his party. He opened by saying - 
I shall give to the Senate an outline of the attitude of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party as agreed to by unanimous resolution at a meeting of the party this morning. It represents, so far as we are able to judge, the opinion of Labour organizations throughout Australia. 
One would have thought that that was  n  definite pronouncement on the Labour party's defence policy. 
Yes, most certainly it was. The honorable senator said that he would give to the Senate an outline of the policy on that particular subject, which was the attitude of Australia to the international situation. He closed his remarks by saying - 
Many of the economic burdens that arn weighing down the world to-day are the direct outcome of the last war, which left a trail of misery unparalleled in history. Although we were told it was a war to end war, the world to-day is on the edge of another cataclysm. The attitude of the Australian Labour party is dear and unequivocal. It wants no war on foreign fields for economic treasure. 
I wonder who does? 
I know what the honorable senator was talking about. He said that the attitude of the Australian Labour party was clear and unequivocal, and that it wanted no war on foreign fields for economic treasure. He went on - 
It wants Australia to be kept free of the entanglements leading to a repetition of the horrors of 1914-18. Therefore the Australian Labour party, for which I speak to-day, says: " Non-participation ". 
As the honorable senator put it, non-participation in any foreign entanglements. The next opportunity to set out Labour's policy on world affairs came when, in November of the same year, two months later, the bill imposing sanctions was brought before this chamber. 
We shall see whether it had or not. The honorable senator then at great length, and reading from the platform of the party, set out its defence policy. He said - 
The defence policy of the Australian Labour party is definitely set out in its printed platform. 
Has that anything to do with defence? 
The honorable senator continued - 
There is nothing mysterious about it. It is printed and circulated all over Australia in season and out of season, and is available at any time to anybody who desires to obtain a copy. 
I direct the attention of my Leader to that circular; he may be able to get a. copy of it. The honorable senator continued - 
Labour's defence policy may be summarized as: - 
Adequate home defence against possible foreign aggression. 
No raising of forces for service outside of the Commonwealth or participation or promise of participation in any future overseas war except by decision of the people. 
There is nothing mysterious about that policy and the Opposition abides by it. 
The statement which the honorable senator then made was notable for the extraordinary vagueness of what he had to say upon the subject. " Adequate home defence ", " adequate for our needs ", " to be financed by the operations of Labour's financial policy " - whether by a fiduciary issue or Douglas Credit, the honorable senator did not at that time tell us. 
One would have thought as the honorable senator read that statement that it was something from which the Labour party's defence policy could be at once deduced, that there was nothing further to be said, and that the last word had been uttered on the subject, with no room for misunderstanding or misrepresentation. 
One would have thought that it was there so plain that he who ran might read, according to the honorable senator, but if one took what was contained in his speeches, 1 venture to suggest that there would have been more running than reading. I thought we had heard the end of it then, but only yesterday or the day before, the honorable senator made a most impassioned statement as to what the policy is and how it has been misrepresented by those who sit in this chamber. 
The honorable senator, speaking here on the Address-in-Reply, expressed the  fear that the Imperial Conference had been a " dud ", and that nothing had come out of it. He referred to that much later, and commented on the fact that he had then been a prophet as to what would come from the Conference. One thing that I should have thought would please the honorable senator about the Imperial Conference was its attitude towards peace and war. If he had read it, or had read the statement made by the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives, he would have seen that the intention to preserve peace if possible - peace with honour, I suppose - was the predominant note of the Conference. The Prime Minister said of it - 
The Conference which I recently attended will have far-reaching effects, and I am confident that the demonstration of solidarity of all those countries forming the British Commonwealth of Nations will have a very beneficial result, particularly in the cause of peace. 
If  Senator Collings  had listened to  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  the earlier portion of whose speech he eulogized yesterday, he would have learnt something about the position of the other parts of the Empire with regard to defence, and the futility of merely comparing what they say with the Australian attitude, having regard to their totally different circumstances. The Prime Minister also said - 
The conference made it clear, without doubt, that the predominant ideal and purpose of the British Commonwealth was peace, and that all efforts would continue to be directed to the end of securing world appeasement and peace. 
Paragraph 3 of a report which summarized many of the conclusions, read - 
Basing their policies upon the aims and ideals of the League of Nations, they declare thattheir respective armaments will never be used for the purposes of aggression or for any purpose inconsistent with the Covenant of the League of Nations or the Pact of Paris. 
The rumour was freely circulated that the Prime Minister was visiting Great Britain with the intention of binding this country to a policy of conscription; but, as a matter of fact, as  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has already told us to-day in connexion with co-operation in Empire defence, the conference emphasized the resolutions of 1923, which lay down that it is the sole responsibility of the parliaments of the Empire to decide the natureand sphere of their own defence policies. Does that satisfy the Leader of the Opposition that autonomy in the matter of defence is retained by Australia? On many occasions the Leader of the Opposition has attempted to explain the defence policy of the Labour party. After hearing the speech of the Leader of the Senate yesterday, the conclusion we must reach in respect of that policy is that we are no wiser than we were at the end of 1935, when the Leader of the Opposition said that he had explained what the defence policy of the party actually means. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
After careful consideration and consultation with British Ministers and dominion representatives, the Government has found it necessary to expend this year an unusually large sum on defence. We regret that such heavy expenditure should be necessary; but, in view of the present condition of world affairs, we must, in co-operation with Great Britain and the other dominions, organize our man power and provide essential equipment. I was surprised to find that such a large number of young men who offered themselves for voluntary military training were found to be physically unfit to undertake the duties expected of them. The general opinion of competent authorities is that many persons are below the average physical standard owing to unsuitable diet when children, or to malnutrition. It is interesting to note that all fourteen international nutrition experts attached to the League of Nations have recommended that all young people should consume a reasonable quantity of fresh milk daily. The Labour Government of New Zealand is to be commended for having introduced  in that dominion a system under which every state-school child is to be provided, free of cost, with half a pint of fresh milk daily, and doctors in New Zealand have told me that since this system has been in force there has been a remarkable improvement of the health of the children. As the subject of nutrition is of national importance, I trust that before long the Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the State governments, will introduce a scheme under which at least half a pint of fresh milk will be supplied daily to every child attending primary and state schools in Australia. Based on what is being done in New Zealand, the cost would be approximately £1,000,000 per annum, but it would be money well spent. The Commonwealth Government makes tremendous grants to the States from time to time, and it should be able to provide . £500.000 per annum - the balance to be made up by the States - to carry out a scheme such as I have suggested. Mornover, it would be a great benefit to the dairying industry, as an additional market would he provided for surplus milk, a large quantity of which now goes to waste. If I am returned to the Senate after the next general election, I intend, with the assistance of other members of this Parliament who have promised support, to urge the Government to introduce this highly-important scheme. 
During the debate on the Imperial Conference reference has been made to the necessity to protect some of our important industrial undertakings, such as the great steel works controlled by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited on the eastern coast of Australia. 
In matters of defence, it is the policy of this Government to work in close cooperation with other portions of the Empire, and not to confine its activities within the three-mile limit as the Labour party proposes. Adequate protection should be afforded not only to the large capital cities of Sydney, 'Melbourne and others, but also to such centres as Newcastle where the iron and steel and other important key industries are established. 
The production of fuel oil in Australia is also of great importance. If the vessels of the Royal Navy or the Royal Australian Navy were unable, even for a short period, to protect our great trade routes, our supply of fuel oil would soon be exhausted. If Australia were invaded., troops would have to be transported by motor vehicles, or even by aeroplane, from one point to another, and in the absence of an adequate supply of petrol, that would be impossible. There should also be an ample supply of the higher grade spirit used by bombers in order to protect vulnerable points and damage transports conveying foreign troops designed to attack Australia. 
Although it is claimed that battleships cannot be sunk by aircraft, transports carrying large numbers of soldiers could be successfully attacked by bombers. I am glad that the Commonwealth Government in conjunction with the Government of New South Wales has made arrangements for the development of the Newnes shale deposits with the object of producing fuel oil in Australia. Present stocks would not last a month in times of national emergency. 
Based on the present consumption. 
No raising of forces for service outside the 
Commonwealth, participation or promise of participation in overseas wars, except by the decision of the people. 
It is clear from that definite statement, that in the event of the sister dominion, New Zealand, being attacked, a Labour government in Australia would not assist or in any way co-operate with the defence of that dominion. When the Leader of the Opposition was speaking yesterday, he referred in scathing terms ro the fact that the iron ore deposits at Yampi Sound in Western Australia had been leased to Japan. There may be a good deal of truth in what the honorable senator said, because, if we take a long ange view of the subject, it may be wise to retain complete control of all the raw materials at our disposal. But surely the Leader of the Opposition is aware that permission to export iron ore from Yampi Sound was granted by a. Labour government in Western Australia, Every one must be gratified at the extraordinary improvement that has taken place in the economic position of Australia since the Lyons Government came into power. There is no better indication of a country's prosperity than its employment figures. In 1931, when the Lyons Government came into office, 30 per cent, of trade unionists were out of employment; to-day only 9 per cent, are without work. In 1931-32, the expenditure on building construction amounted to £8,000,000; in 1936-37 it had reached £40,000,000. When the Government reduced the duties on a number of tariff items there was much opposition from certain quarters on the ground that lower duties would interfere with the development of new, or expansion of existing, secondary industries! The truth is that under the regime of the Lyons Government these industries have made amazing growth. For example, in 1931 the number of factories in Australia was 21,627. and the number of persons employed was 336,658. To-day the factories number more than 25,000, and the number of employees is over 500,000, an increase of more than 100,000. The increase of wages paid is £2-7,000,000 yearly. As an instance of the confidence of manufacturers in the Lyons Government and its fiscal policy, I may mention that in the Geelong district the Ford Motor Company intends to spend £150,000 on additions to its factory and the International Harvester Company has arranged to erect a factory at a cost of £250,000. Many other industries are expanding and giving additional employment to Australian workmen. 
Reference has been made in this debate to the Government's proposal to provide vocational training for the large number of Australian youths who missed their opportunity to secure employment during the depression years. One of the most disturbing factors in our economic life, is the stupid policy of overrestricting apprenticeship in the skilled trades. In Australia it has been attended by disastrous results to our young men. The percentage of apprentices allowed to the number of journeymen employed in Victoria - I assume that much the same conditions obtain in other States - is ridiculously small. Consequently many sons of mechanics are denied the opportunity to follow their father's avocation, and there now is a great shortage of plumbers, mechanics, carpenters, and other artisans so essential to the expansion of the trades. It is almost impossible to obtain a sufficient number of skilled workmen in many districts. I am glad to know that this Government is doing something to rectify the position. It has set aside £200,000 to be distributed amongst the States for vocational training of youths. 
The higher basic wage is further evidence of increased prosperity since the Lyons Government came into power. -In 1931 the basic wage was £3 7s. 6d. a week; to-day it is £3 15s. It would be possible to compile from statistical records an extremely interesting booklet showing the benefits that have accrued to the people of this country since the Lyons Government 'came into office, as indicated by the growth of our secondary industries, the increased volume of employment, the improved conditions of the workers, and the increased deposits in our Savings Banks. 
Now that we are on the eve of a general election, Labour leaders have become especially interested in invalid and old-age pensioners. Pensions have always been the favorite catch cry of Labour candidates during Commonwealth election campaigns. The truth is that the oldage pensions law was placed on the statute-book, not at the instance of the Labour party, but by the Deakin Government in 1908, and the payment of invalid pensions was authorized in 1910. In September, 1916, the maximum pension of 10s. a week was increased by the Hughes Labour Government to 12s. 6d., and the limit of income including pension was increased from £1 to 22s. 6d. a week. That was the only occasion in the 27 years since the pensions law was passed, when a Labour government increased the payment. In October, 1919, the maximum rate of pension was increased by a Nationalist government from 12s. 6d. to 15s. a week, and the limit of income, including pensions, from 22s. 6d. to 25s. a week. In December, 1920, the same Nationalist government raised the limit of income, including pensions for blind pensioners, to £4 5s. a week. In September, 1923, the maximum rate of pension was increased by the Bruce-Page Government from- 15s. to 17s. 6d. a week. The limit of property was also increased from £310 to £400. 
Scullin Government in connexion with pensions. 
The famous blue book issued by the Labour party for election purposes advocates an increase of pensions to 20s. a week, and, as the increase has already been made by this Government, Labour candidates will not- now be able to go on election platforms and tell the people that the Lyons Government is paying 20s. a week, but if Labour be placed in power the pensioners will get more a week; the election platform of the Opposition, is outlined in the blue book, and, as I have explained, it advocates a pension of 20s. a week, which is being paid already by the Lyons Government. The new rate is the highest ever paid since the pensions system was inaugurated, because the purchasing power of 20s. to-day is equivalent to 23s. lOd. in 1925, in which year the Bruce-Page Government raised the pension from 17s. 6d. to 20s. a week. 
One of the most  important subjects discussed by the Imperial Conference was Empire defence, which, in the case" of 
Australia, means the strengthening of the navy and the expansion of the army and air forces in order that they may be used to the best advantage in co-operation with the forces of the Empire, including the sister dominion of New Zealand. Contrast this defence with the policy of isolation favoured by the Labour party. Isolation would leave Australia at the mercy of any powerful aggressor nation that cared to attack us. But one of the greatest dangers exists within our own gates. I refer to the alarming increase of communism in recent years. 
To-day the situation in the Labour movement is rapidly changing. There is in this change an assurance that a Labour government elected this year will carry out a programme of benefit to the masses. .First among the changes that are taking place is the growing strength and influence of the Communist party. The party has the leadership of several important unions, and considerable influence in others. More than ever it is the driving force of the Labour movement. 
As a result of these changes, and especially of. the persevering work of the Communist party, the support for the united front is extending. The working class and their political parties are being drawn together into a common front against their enemies. Local united front actions in one form or another are becoming more frequent throughout Australia. 
The lessons of world events have not been lost on the working class. United front successes in France, Spain, and the recent formation at the instigation of the Communist party of a united Chinese government are convincing the Australian people that unity is the only guarantee of the defeat of fascism in Australia as in other countries, and the preservation of peace. 
There is nothing there against communism. The article continues - 
These far-reaching changes in the Labour movement, which have had their influence on the complexion of the Labour candidates for Parliament, provide an assurance that a Labour government will now benefit the masses, and make it possible for the Communist party to take the responsibility of calling for the election of such a government. 
The same issue of the  Workers' Voice  contains the following advertisement : - 
Coming!ToSpeakinMelbourne 
The Communist party has circulated a yellow leaflet headed : " Down with the Lyons Government;Communitsts must work with 
Labour ". On another leaflet dealing with the federal election of 1937, the Communist party of Australia says - 
The Lyons Government must be removed, and a Labour government, pledged to repeal the anti-democratic suctions of the Crimes Act, repeal the Transport Workers Act, and extend democratic liberty, be elected in its place. 
Out with Lyons who menaces democracy! Elect a Labour government! Preserve democracy! Bar the path to fascism! 
Read the  Workers' Voice . . . 
Published by J. Simpson, 193 Hay-street, Sydney. 
Another leaflet with the arresting title, "Do you want a Happy Australia?", proceeds - "Of course! We all do ... " 
That is why the Communist party is striving for a powerful united Labour movement - 
By seeking affiliation to the Labour party. 
By building the trade unions and other working class organizations. 
A Labour movement which can elect and direct fighting Labour governments, pledged to a people's programme. 
Read our paper, the  Workers' Voice. 
Still another leaflet is headed, " Why can't you make both ends meet ?" It tells the electors - 
Remove the governments of the rich ; elect Labour governments and secure - 
Peace, democracy, a better life for the people. 
Authorized by L. Donald, 3 Hosier-lane, Melbourne. 
One of the most disturbing features associated with communism is that prominent members of the Australian Labour party are connected with it. The honorable member for Bourke  (Mr. Blackburn)  in the House of Representatives has often spoken at Communist meetings in Melbourne, and on occasions has occupied the Chair. He and other prominent members of the party will, no doubt, speak at next week's demonstration in the Exhibition Building, Melbourne, which is being cunningly prepared by the Communist party. The Communist reptiles practically compel the pensioners to contribute to propaganda on behalf of the Labour party. To those who contribute, they issue stickers, like a stamp tax sticker, containing the words, "I have donated1d. to the Communist party for the defeat of the Lyons Government ". 
Many members of the Labour party, including some honorable senators, have extolled Russia and the conditions in that country. Much of t heir propaganda is based on the claim that Russia is the new workers' paradise, and leads the world in social advancement. I shall show to what extent Russia does lead the world in enlightenment. A newspaper entitled  Nice Place, Russia,  states - 
This year's news from Russia, began, some thought, rather ominously. Two Soviet scientists - one a professor, the other a " famous chemist " - on leave of absence to pursue research work abroad, flatly refused togo back. This, in Russia, was considered unpatriotic. It may havebeen good judgment. At any rate, it was the January 1 cabled news concerning the " workers' paradise," and, viewing from abroad the Russian scene since then, the two scientists, among: others, must have indulged in some deep thinking. In monthly concentrated doses: - 
It has a lot to do with a party whose spokesmen claim that the conditions in Russia are ideal and that the country is a workers' paradise. The article continues - 
In April, Yagoda, formerly chief of the O.G.P.U. was arrested for " plotting, terrorism, &amp;c.". A bomb having been found ready to be exploded at will under the box frequently used by Stalin in the Little Theatre, the manager was arrested ... In May, 44 Russians charged with being terrorists, spies and wreckers, one ofthem a woman, were executed in Siberia ... In June, eight generals pleading guilty of treason and espionage were shot. These generals all had great power, wealth, magnificent palaces, summer resorts, splendid cars and thoroughbred horses, acquired for services to the revolution. They held nearly all the key commands in European Russia. The Soviet press now describes these ex-darlings of the army us poisonous pigmies ... In August, " Great purge " continued, but with " unprecedented secrecy ". Victims believed to include Moskvin, a "prominent member of the Third International; Chernoff, Commissioner for Agriculture ('after the harvest'); Nathalia Satz, manageress of ' the famous Moscow Children's Theatre'; Arosieff, head of the Department for Foreign Cultural Relations; Fechner, head of the Department for Poland and the Baltic; arid many officials of the Communist party in Moscow, the Ukraine and elsewhere ". . . . 
The pathetic truth is that Russia is still one of the most backward and barbarous countries in the world, lagging not less than a century and a half behind civilization as this is known here and elsewhere. 
Yet this is the country which is referred to by honorable senators opposite as a country of freedom and enlightenment, a workers' paradise! This Australian publication shows that many prominent men and their wives were shot in the back of the head this year. Anybody who goes to that country sees that the heavy work of making roads and carrying bricks, and all dirty jobs are done by women, and that there is part starvation and poverty to a greater extent to-day than at any other period in its history. I ask honorable senators to read the stories of men who have visited Russia recently and who write with first-hand knowledge of the deplorable state of affairs that exists there. Yet the Communists are most active in Australia to-day; they are organizing in shops, factories, labour gangs, labour unions and labour parties. The effects of their insidious propaganda is felt even in the universities and schools. Communism is eating into the unions and undermining this country to a greater extent than has been achieved by any enemies from outside. I warn the Government of the growing activities of the Communist party which to-day is boasting of having secured control of many of the trade unions in Australia, and is seeking by fair means or foul to overthrow the Lyons Government. The position is extraordinarily serious. I am sorry that the Labour party is allying itself with the Communists and allowing its followers to speak on Communist platforms. Almost every week in Melbourne prominent members of the official Labour party are to be seen and heard in public with Communist agitators. The Communists claim a united front with the Labour party and boast that they will be successful in the overthrow of the Lyons Government. That seems to be the common aim of the Communist party and the Labour party in Australia. 
If there is one honorable senator in this chamber who has every reason to regret that the work in the House of Representatives is not being more rapidly expedited he is myself. 
I was optimistic enough to believe that we should  he  able to finish our work by to-morrow evening and that we could then get away to our respective States and enter upon our election campaign; but as our friends in the other chamber are putting through business slowly, the time of waiting in this chamber has to be filled in. So much had I been lulled into a false sense of security by what I believed to be the position, that I was taken quite by surprise when  Senator Guthrie  rose to discuss the budget. I had forgotten there was such a thing as the motion on the business-paper " that the budget papers be printed " and in any case I had decided that in my speech yesterday I had said all that it was necessary for me to say on the budget or on Supply. 
It is a shame to do anything to disturb the serenity of such a kindly and genial senator as  Senator Guthrie.  I should like, however, to make some brief references to some of the remarks which he has just made. I have been astounded at the varied colours of the literature which has been used in this chamber during the last day or two, because of my somewhat restricted generosity in distributing copies of Labour's blue book to certain favoured senators. Those honorable senators have been most adroit in the use which they have made of my gift. During the last couple of days I. have noticed at least one honorable senator waving about some yellow literature;  Senator Guthrie  displayed this afternoon a red book, and I think I saw  Senator Marwick  waving a green leaflet. 
I am perfectly happy about the blue book ; it is a beauty. As a matter of fact that feeling is endorsed by honorable senators opposite, because although they only got nine copies of it they have done nothing but talk about it for two days. I give  Senator Guthrie  credit for being able to tell a story well. As a matter of fact, he put so much horror and pathos and blue funk into his voice that had the lights gone out I feel sure we would have been gibbering inanities through fear. The honorable senator said that some scientists in Russia declared that a patent process had been discovered whereby they could get the wool off the sheep's backs by administering a drug.  Senator Guthrie  has not got too much wool to lose, but I have a fair quantity, and I can assure himthat no drug administered to me would get my wool off so effectively as did his speech. In the course of his remarks, lie made some rather noteworthy statements; for example, he applauded the export of iron ore to Japan. 
I am totally opposed" to the export of iron ore and to the export of Corriedale stud rams to any foreign country to improve its herds and raise the quality of its wool clip so that it may compete more effectively with the product of Australia. We should place an embargo on the export of scrap iron and iron ore from Australia. Honorable senators belonging to the party supported by  Senator Guthrie,  say we have a potential  enemy in the Pacific, yet they proceed to sell to that enemy all our surplus scrap iron and iron ore. Just as firmly as I object to the export of iron ore, I object to the fact that in this country at the moment, there are emissaries of that country to which  Senator Guthrie  and others have referred who have secured the right to survey the iron ore deposits of Australia. Honorable senators opposite paint a picture of horror as to what we may anticipate some time in the future. There is nothing but insincerity and hypocrisy in the whole business. When the deputation from Lancashire was in Australia giving to the Government orders in regard to imports of certain textiles, I asked  Sir Ernest  Thompson in Brisbane if it were not true that Lancashire interests had equipped Japan with the most modern machinery to enable that country to compete with Lancashire in the textile trade, with the result that Lancashire lost a good deal of trade because, while the Lancashire millers were using obsolete machinery, the Japanese were using the most up-to-date plant. 

 Senator Guthrie displayed this afternoon a remarkable acquaintance with the activities of the Communist party, and that confirmed my suspicion, which I openly stated in this chamber last week, that the United Australia party and the United Country party are prompting these activities on the part of the Communists in order that the Labour party may get the discredit, which every honorable senator opposite has endeavoured- to fasten on it, by quoting from leaflets and pamphlets with which they are significantly familiar. I have a copy of the book from which  Senator Guthrie  quoted, but I have not yet opened it. The honorable gentleman was not fair enough to say that in this book there is not one word of affiliation with the Labour party, not one word of sympathy with the aims and objects of that party. When talking about Russia,  Senator Guthrie  said that in February, which was a quiet month, ten or twelve people had been shot. As he proceeded his tale of horror grew, and I understand that the honorable senator claimed that over a thousand people in Russia were shot during a period of seven months. Apparently, the honorable senator has an intimate knowledge of what is going on in Russia to-day. There was a time during the great war, however, when Russia was an ally of Great Britain and her allies. Nothing was said against Russia then. We were all comrades in arms. One could not stand up at a public assembly anywhere in Australia during those hectic years and say a word against Russia or the Rus-. sian people. It was not until, having had more than enough of war, having had their manhood decimated by that awful holocaust which commenced in 1914, the Russian people turned from external conditions and fastened their attention definitely for the first time in history upon the internal affairs of the nation; it was not until they began to consider clothing and feeding themselves, and to do the work which it is essential for every country having claims to civilization, decency and Christianity, to do, that they became anathema to gentlemen like  Senator Guthrie,  and those who sit complacently endorsing his remarks. I am not suggesting that  Senator Guthrie's  speech was made of his own volition. He is too genial, too honest, too "fair, too much of a sportsman to be capable of it, unless commissioned by his party to get up and release, against the leaders of this party, the poison gas which his colleagues are afraid to discharge themselves. 
The honorable senator also spoke of pensions, but why he troubled to do so I do not know, because all the information he gave, I gave yesterday in detail. I told the Senate exactly what  the pensions were, when the Lyons Government had raised them, and why. I told the Senate also, which  Senator Guthrie  omitted, of the indecent and cruel property provisions, which raised such a storm of distrust and protest throughout Australia, that even the Lyons Government repealed most of them. I also said yesterday that there were still some disgraceful property provisions in the act. I showed that, if a man insured his life, although he could not possibly collect the money himself, the surrender value of his policy was taken into consideration by the Pensions Department, under instructions from this Government, which  Senator Guthrie  supports. I said that if the surrender value, added to what he had in the bank, came to more than £50, the department reduced his pension by so much for every £1 over that amount.  Senator Guthrie  told only half the story; in fact, he merely repeated a part of the story I told, but left out the unsavoury details. 
The honorable senator is so devoid of accurate knowledge of the history of pensions, that he said a Nationalist government was the first government to introduce them in Australia. That statement is entirely incorrect. Nobody ever called the late Alfred Deakin a Nationalist. He was the finest example of a good Australian Liberal that ever this country saw, and he introduced the pensions as part of the price that he had to pay for Labour's support during his administration. 

 Senator Guthrie also said something about the wonderful prosperity of which I have heard so much during the last week. I admit that there is a measure of comparative prosperity in Australia at the moment. Something was said by  Senator Guthrie  about savings banks, and much has been said  ad nauseam  about prosperity. I shall deal with the savings banks first.  Senator Guthrie  said: "You have only  to  read the savings bank returns, and there you find the wonderful story of the restoration of prosperity". There is another phase of that story that is worth emphasizing. The other day, the financial journals and the published returns of the Commonwealth Bank showed that the note issue is up at the moment by £500,000, which economists and the bank journals say is most unusual at this time of the year. There are times, they admit, such as Christmas and New Year, when the note issue is considerably inflated on account of seasonal conditions. The anti-Labour people, the supporters of  Senator Guthrie  and his party, admit that the only explanation is that, because increased employment is operating in the ranks of the working classes, they are increasing their consumption, and increasing the expenditure of their earnings. These are causes which, they say, have brought, about an unusual and undisputed rise in the amount of the note issue. In that one simple statement is contained the whole of the Australian Labour party's outlook on this matter of savings banks, financial policy, and everything co-related to them. We say that, if you will make this prosperity real, if you will distribute it evenly over the whole community, if you will give more of the workers a full breakfast table, if you will give them more security, more relief from the everpresent fear of approaching unemployment and want, then your savings bank returns will go up, and your general prosperity will increase. That is the one lesson that the people who constitute the present Government will not learn. 
I am astounded that  Senator Brennan,  with his years of experience, his wonderful intellect and great legal knowledge, can lull himself into such a sense of false security as to sit back and believe that this prosperity is a universal and permanent institution. He knows better; he knows that at least nine-tenths of the reason for the increased prices of our exportable products, and for the increased prosperity in the different countries of the world at the moment, is the huge expenditure now being made by every country upon armaments. Even  Mr. A.  C. Davidson, a thick and thin supporter of the United Australia party and the Australian Country party, a gentleman who has no sympathy with the Australian Labour party, in a circular recently issued by the Bank of New 
South. Wales, of which he is the general manager, warns the governments and people of Australia against a sense of false security, such as  Senator Brennan  is obviously in.  Mr. Davidson  points out that the building of armaments must come to a finish, that they are destructive and not constructive, that they create not wealth, but the very opposite Let me read what the Prime Minister of the sister dominion of New Zealand had to say regarding prosperity.  Mr. Savage,  at a civic reception tendered to him on his return from the Old Country, said - - 
Some people seem to have been worrying while I was away. For instance, a gentleman speaking at Palmerston North said, "There are no other people in the world enjoying such a high standard of living as are the people of New Zealand, and it is well worth retaining". You could not guess who said that. It was the Leader of the Opposition. Our government, a Labour government, was elected to get rid of the low standard of living fixed by the previous government, and we have got well on the way. Some people may say that New Zealand's prosperity is due to wool. No doubt it is in part, but our business is to distribute that prosperity. We have not half done the job, but we are well on the way, and we arc going the whole distance. 
Later in his speech, recalling that  Mr. Mitchell  had quoted the proverb that it was better to have tried and failed than never to have tried at all,  Mr. Savage  said that that was his own philosophy. He continued - 
On the voyage to England, some one accused me of being a dreamer and a philosopher. I said .1 would rather go down to the grave branded as a dreamer who would work day and night to make his dreams come true, than as a great statesman who had spent his life waiting for something to turn up. 
If there is one thing that describes the present Government of the Commonwealth more aptly than another, it is that concluding sentence. The Australian Labour movement would rather work night and day to make our dreams of a better world, a better Australia, greater happiness, increased health, more dignity, culture, and decency for the common people, which means eventually for all the people, come true, and then fail, than be members of a party and a government that has no capacity beyond waiting, like Micawber, for something to turn up. 
The Assistant Minister  (Senator Brennan)  , when speaking on the Imperial 
Conference this afternoon, referred to the defence policy of the Australian Labour party, and quoted from a speech I delivered in November, 1935, .in which ho definitely stated that I outlined the defence policy of my party. There is such a thing as fair play. The Assistant Minister took a portion of my speech from its context in an endeavour to give to it a different meaning. I introduced the subject, as he stated, and went on to say - 
Labour's defence policy may be summarized as adequate home defence against possible foreign aggression. No raising of forces for service outside the Commonwealth or participation or promise of participation in any future overseas war except by decision of the people. 
There is not a word in the speech itself about the defence policy of the Australian Labour party. I was merely quoting from the platform of the party. 
I had by interjections to force the Assistant Minister to say that that speech was delivered on the Sanctions Bill. He knew that that portion of our defence policy is merely introductory to something else, and that the party has never altered that portion of its defence policy. What was the object of that debate? The Senate was asked to declare its attitude in regard to sanctions. A sanctions bill was before the chamber, and it was opposed by the members of the Labour party in a most determined way, because we said that, if there was any business in sanctions, their imposition must inevitably lead to war. I also said that, in bringing down the bill, the Government knew perfectly well that sanctions would not be imposed on all commodities, for example, fuel oil, the one commodity which would have held up Italy and saved the rape of the Abyssinian people. 
My prophecy came true. The Leader of the Senate said - 
These are the items upon which sanctions have already been imposed, and for which we ask your approval, but I can assure the 
Senate that before long there will bo added to the list of those items for which sanctions are desired oil and its derivatives. 
I was right, and the Minister was wrong. The extension of the sanctions to oil was the only thing that would have stopped Italy's march upon the helpless Abyssinians. I went on to say - 
On the question of sanctions the attitude of the Australian Labour party is clear and unequivocal. It wants no war on foreign Melds for economic treasure. 
The word " sanctions " appears at the top of the page in  Hansard  from which I am quoting. 
I do not mind being accused by my opponents in this chamber of being untruthful, but 1 object to being accused of being incapable of reading the English language. I went on to say - 
It wants Australia to be kept free from entanglements leading to a repetition of the horrors of 1914-18. Therefore, the Australian Labour party, for which I speak to-day, says non-participation. 
Will the Leader of the Senate say that t he rape of Abyssinia was anything but a war for economic treasure? It was waged for that purpose. The members of the Labour party state most definitely and unequivocally - honorable senators opposite can use my remarks at the forthcoming election as much as they like - that if the Labour party is in control in the Federal sphere next year, the lives of Australian men will not be sacrificed on foreign fields for economic treasure if it can prevent it. 
I am glad to have that admission from at least two Ministers. It appears that by continuing to explain the policy of the Labour party I am able to assist them to emerge from the stygian darkness, and to see the light. 
The 8th November, 1935, page 1434. The report of my speech on that page reads - 
I desire to quote an extract from the  Courier-Mail,  a very respectable journal published in Brisbane. It is neither Communistic nor pro-Labour in its sympathies, but is the principal organ in Queensland supporting the present Commonwealth Government. In regard to sanctions it says - 
The Federal Government has notified the High Commissioner that Australia is wholeheartedly behind Britain in her efforts to maintain peace between Italy and Abyssinia. 
Well, that is all right. We are wholeheartedly in favour of peace. But we hope that when  Mr. Bruce  goes to Geneva next week he will listen hard and speak very softly indeed. Or, preferably, not speak at all. 
This war that is looming in Africa is no business of ours. We may have our opinions about it, but it will be well to keep them to ourselves. We have just about as much as we can do to hold on to this unpopulated country in a landhungry world. We cannot afford the luxury of making enemies anywhere. 
It is the expressed opinion of the  Courier-Mail. 
I suggest to the Assistant Minister that there is nothing wrong with that. In our blue book we say that defence will be financed in accordance with our policy of banking and monetary reform. 
I stated most definitely that if men were" conscripted without a referendum and without the conscription of wealth, the wealth of those for whom in war the workers die would be so increased that they would have to pay their proper share of the inevitable cost which under existing conditions they escape. Elections cannot be won on spurious charges levelled at the Labour party. We of the Opposition are here to represent, not the wealthy section of the community, but the masses outside, the people who have never seen the inside of a University and who have to toil hard from day to day, and even then do not get sufficient to maintain themselves in reasonable comfort. 
I wish now to deal for a few moments with the much vaunted prosperity. We are delighted to -find that there has been some comparative improvement, but I ask honorable senators if they really believe that the prosperity is as general as they suggest. It is all right for us, who are sure of three meals a day and who know that we shall not be conscripted for war service. We find a full breakfast table each morning, and generally speaking, live under favorable conditions. I am not denying that prosperity is here, but the conditions under which we, in this Parliament, live are not identical with those under which many are compelled to live. ' The workers in Queensland are better off than in any other part of Australia. The people in that State have the highest basic wage in Australia, their money has a greater purchasing power, their working week is shorter. 
I shall deal with taxation shortly. Queensland is the only country in the world in which there is a statutory working week of 44 hours. The industrial conditions are better, the percentage of home owners and of people purchasing their own homes is greater, and the standard of living is higher than in any other country. Notwithstanding all these facts, which are supported by the Statistician's figures, the Brisbane  1'ele- graph,  which does not support the Labour party, has throughout the winter been appealing to the citizens of Brisbane for left-off clothing and blankets for distribution amongst the poor. Is that where prosperity lies? I defy any one to persuade these destitute people that there is prosperity in this country. 
The Commonwealth has' its nutrition and other experts, who are busy collecting statistics about dietetics and malnutrition. Already these inquiries have disclosed conditions that are a disgrace to every one concerned with the government of this country. It is sad to think that in this wonderful land of sunshine, because of malnutrition due to unemployment and other preventable economic causes, we are building a class " C " nation. Every time we seek recruits for our police force or  voluntary  defence organization, large numbers of applicants are rejected because, being the children of mothers who suffered from malnutrition, they are underfed and undernourished. 
If that interjection refers to my honest attempt to tell the truth about social and economic conditions in Australia, I would rather accept the charge than remain silent. The charge of the Assistant Minister, that in offering these comments, I am defaming my own State, does not worry me in the least. In my lifetime people of the class to whom the Minister belongs have not shown much regard for my feelings. Because I have always advocated the interests of the working classes., and fought their battles, I have been called a home-wrecker, a breaker of the marriage tie, a wife-beater, a socialist, a Labour agitator, a red  ragger,  and many other unpleasant names. But these things do not disturb me. What I am saying is true. I dare  Senator Arkins  to come with me to some of the homes in certain parts of Sydney, and tell the inmates that he is an emissary of the Government which claims that it has -brought prosperity to all Australia. If the honorable gentleman accepted my invitation, he would see in some of those homes conditions so distressful that he would not be able to speak for emotion. Callous and politically hard-hearted as he is, he would quail before the spectacle of half-starved children, with hardly a rag to cover their emaciated bodies. 
Because then I was talking about unemployed youths. Now I am speaking about slums in our capital cities and elsewhere throughout the Commonwealth. 
On other occasions I have complained of unsatisfactory answers which, for some unexplained reason, are so often given to me by Ministers. I am prompted to say this, because this afternoon the Leader of the .Senate  (Senator Pearce)  read copious answers in reply to questions asked by other honorable senators. 
I do not consider that I had fair treatment in connexion with my questions about the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The same may be said of the following questions which I addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health on the 18th June last: - 
What is the present position regarding the work previously carried on at Townsville by the Division of Tropical Hygiene? 
What operations, if any, are now being carried out in this connexion by the Commonwealth Health Department or any other federal department? 

 Senator Brennan informed me that the Minister for Health had supplied the following answers: - 
The work previously carried on at Townsville is being continued and has been extended. The laboratory at Townsville continues local investigations and the staff of the school of Public Health and Tropical Medicine at Sydney are carrying out general investigations intotropical medicine and visiting Northern Queensland for the purpose of reinforcing the investigations being locally made by the Townsville laboratory. 
See answer to No. 1. 
That was not the answer to which I was entitled, but I gave up in despair and sent my questions, with the official answer, to the Queensland branch of the British Medical Association. This is the reply which I received from that body - 
In reply to your letter of the 23rd June, 1937, with reference to your questions in the Senate on the 18th June and the answers thereto, I am directed to advise as follows: - 
Our comments upon Answer (1) - 
The Institute of Tropical Medicine, formerly at Townsville and devoted wholly to problems of tropical Australia, is now at Sydney, and appears to devote its attention to questions of public health in general. 
I may point out here that I did not ask any question about public health in general, but I was particularly anxious to know what was being done with regard to the work previously carried out at Townsville by the Division of Tropical Hygiene. The letter continued - 
There is a laboratory at Townsville with a staff consisting of one medical officer, one technical assistant and one boy. It appears to be doing almost wholly pathological work for the medical men practising in the town, and is practically an adjunct to the Townsville Hospital, but has done some work on the causative organism of Weil's disease. 
The following visits for the purpose of research in tropical disease, to our knowledge, have been made to Queensland from the School of Tropical Medicine in Sydney: - 1934. Drs. Sawers and Cotter to investigate the outbreak of Weil's disease. 1936.  Dr. Murray  on soil analysis in connexion with Weil's disease. 1937.  Dr. Clements  - Nutrition in Western Queensland. 
Since the Institute of Tropical Medicine at Townsville was closed in 1930, the following problems have continued to obtrude themselves in tropical Australia : - 
Malaria - 1933. Outbreak of malaria in Torres Straits - 900 cases. 1936. Outbreak of malaria in northwest. 
Short period fevers - Including at least five varieties of leptospirosis. 
Abattoir fever - Has been found to exist. 
Typhus fever - Rural and urban. 
Leprosy - Steadily increasing and becoming endemic amongst white children. 
Weil's disease - Outbreak in 1934 (recognized and diagnosed by private practitioners ) . Part taken by Queensland Department of Health and Home Affairs- 

 Dr. E. A. Derrick was appointed in 1934, and has done good work in the investigation of Weil's disease, seven-day fever, leptospirosis, abattoir fever, and an outbreak of disease amongst shearers. 
A sum of £500 has been allotted to the State by the Commonwealth for the investigation of leprosy. 
In 1936, a mobile unit was formed consisting of one medical officer, one technical assistant and one laboratory boy, and has visited every part where an epidemic was threatened. 
Eight health inspectors, under direction, control all cane country and have reduced Weil's disease to a trivial frequency over 1,000 square miles. 
Hookworm unit is being continued by the State. 
I remind the Senate that this is work which is being done, not by the Commonwealth, but by the Queensland Government. When I made an appeal for increased interest by the Commonwealth Health Department in tropical hygiene in the north, which surely is one of the most important subjects that could engage the attention of this Government, that meagre answer given to me on the 18th June showed the measure of its concern in the matter. 
 Dr. L.  W. N. Gibson, the honorary secretary of the Queensland Branch of the British Medical Association. 
This afternoon, my colleague,  Senator Brown,  interjected while another honorable senator was speaking and invited him to tell the Senate something about the promises made by  Mr. Lyons  during the last election campaign. That interjection was linked with the question which I asked just now: "Where is this prosperity?" I propose to tell the Senate some of the promises made by  Mr. Lyons  on the occasion referred to. The Prime Minister's pledges read very well. No one can deny that they had a wonderful appeal. The people, believing that the Prime Minister would honour his promises, returned his Government to power. They now know how cruelly they have been deceived. One of the promises made by the Prime Minister was that, if returned, his Government would concentrate on the solution of the problem of unemployment, and to that end he declared very definitely that his Government would lose no time in standardizing the railway gauges. To show how it has fallen down on its job in. connexion with that matter, I need only say that, at the present rate of progress, it will take seventeen years to standardize the railway gauges in the Commonwealth. The Prime Minister also said that his Government would carry out a large number of sewerage schemes for large country towns, and provide more employment. Not one sewerage scheme has been put in hand by this Government. 
The Leader of the Senate now tells us that his Government has found the interest on the expenditure necessary for such works ! There was not one word in the Prime Minister's policy speech about finding the interest. He declared that the work would be done. 
There is a great difference between carrying out a work and finding, the interest on the capital expenditure incurred. It is the duty of the Federal Government to provide work for the unemployed, especially in the Federal Capital Territory. But all that this Government can think of is to pass an ordinance to prevent the unemployed from assembling near the steps of Parliament House lest Ministers and their supporters, in their smug complacency, should see that so many of these unfortunate men have not even a coat to protect them from the winter cold. On one occasion, in winter, I went outside to add ress about 80 men who had assembled in front of this building. I had for protection a. scarf, woollen underwear, sweater and an overcoat; but, not more than one-third of the assembled men possessed a coat. The overcoats that some of them wore were either old military coats that they had when they were demobilized, or used clothing distributed by the Defence Department. The Minister for the Interior, who was not sufficiently courageous to go out to meet them, issued an edict. We hear a lot about dictatorships, but there could not be a worse dictatorship than that contained in an ordinance which the Government promulgated recently. In effect, the workless of Canberra were told, "Don't get near Parliament House; don't annoy us; we want to enjoy our good dinners. You are an encumbrance on the earth. If we find more than twenty of you- ". Perhaps it would be better if I were to give the exact wording of the ordinance - 
For the purposes of the last preceding subsection, persons shall be deemed to have met, or to be assembled, for an unlawful purpose, if they, or any of them, while assembled, do anything unlawful, or make known their grievances, or discuss public affairs or matters of public interest, or consider, prepare or present any petition, memorial, complaint, remonstrance, declaration or other address to  His  Majesty, or to the Governor-General, or to both Houses or either House of the Parliament, or to any Minister or officer of the Commonwealth, for the repeal or enactment of any law, or for the alteration of matters of State. 
The son of the right honorable William Morris Hughes, the Minister for Health andRepatriation, led the deputation. I do not know the son, but, after the deputation, some member of Parliament spoke to his father in somewhat the following terms :  " My word, Billy, that son of yours can make a pretty good speech to which the right honorable gentleman replied, "Ha, ha! A chip off the old block; he is my ' roads ' scholar ". That conversation is significant, for it shows how little regard the Government has for the unemployed. In Canberra last Friday 120 men were sacked. 
In reply to some questions which I asked on this matter, the Leader of the Senate recently gave to me answers which I did not ask for. He did not give direct answers to direct questions. Now he says that these men were dismissed only after they had finished twelve months' constant work. 
The right honorable gentleman, who occupies the high position of Leader of the Senate, sits in his place happy, contented and satisfied because these men have had twelve months' constant work! Apparently, he is not concerned that they and their wives and dependent children live in hovels a t Molonglo and Causeway, where the winter winds blow through the sashes and the rain leaks through the roofs. I think that I have satisfactorily answered my own question, "Where is this prosperity " ? 
There is not one word in this ordinance about men congregating on the steps of Parliament House. It speaks of " the vicinity ". 
Of course they are. I have seen deputation after depu tation of men within the precincts of Parliament House, Brisbane; and in the days that have passed I was at times one of their number. [Extension  of time granted.]  There is a big difference between the unemployed of Queensland and the unemployed of Canberra; the former have votes, whilst the latter have not. The80 men whom I saw shivering outside Parliament House a few weeks ago, and the 120 men who were sacked last Friday, have no votes. 

 Senator Guthrie has waved a red book, on page 21 of which I find the following: 
Factors Favouring Adance of Communist Party in Australia. 
The failure of present governments to remove the abuses of the present industrial ' system, their reluctance to control in the public interest existing private monopolies, to establish family endowment, to restore property to the masses, and to guarantee to citizens that sufficiency and security essential to a full human life. 
I shall now speak of some of the things mentioned in the Treasurer's budget. On page 3 we are told that - 
Since the Lyons Government assumed office in December, 1031, the public debt of the Commonwealth (as distinct from that of the States) has been reduced by £11,019,000. 
Particulars of the debt are as follow: - 

<graphic href="154332193709094_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

There is another side to that story. It is true that the Commonwealth public debt has been reduced by £11,019,000, but during the term of office of the present Government, the invalid and old-age pensioners have received about £10,000,000 less than they should have received. In otherwords, the decrease of the public debt of the Commonwealth is due to the fact that the Government has not played the game with the pensioners, as it promised to do. 
The Government promised that, immediately the finances of the country permitted, it would repeal the emergency legislation. 
Let us now consider the aggregate public debt of Australia. The total of  the Commonwealth and State debts at the 31st December, 1931, was approximately £1,182,566,000; at the 30th June, 1937, the total amounted to approximately £.1,262,872,000. That is to say, the total public debt of Australia, both Commonwealth and State, has increased in that period by about £SO,000,000. Yet, in spite of that increase, the reduction of the Commonwealth debt is thrown at us as evidence of wonderful statesmanship and capacity. On page 6 of the budget, the Treasurer informed us that the total revenue for the year 1936-37 was £52,807,977, compared with an estimate of £81,263,000. The actual surplus for the year was £1,276,588. The estimated surplus was only £45,000. Of the excess of receipts over expenditure, £1,000,000 has been allocated to public works under the control of the Postmaster-General's Department. With that I heartily agree, and I express the hope that it will enable a commencement to be made with a new General Post Office at Brisbane. The balance of £27.6,558 will be used to reduce accumulated deficits. 
On .a previous occasion I referred to the vocational employment of youth, and on the 22nd June last I asked the following questions: - 
Did a deputation from the combined States Departments of Education wait upon the Prime Minister in Canberra in May of last year ? 
Did such deputation request  a  grant in aid to education? 
What was the nature of the reply given to such deputation? 
What, if anything, has the Government since done in this matter? 
I received the following replies:- 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and 4. The matter was listed for discussion at a conference' of Commonwealth and State Ministers held in Adelaide in August, 1036, under the general question of the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States, which  embraced  a number of specific suggestions advanced by State Premiers for additional financial assistance by the Commonwealth. It was not found possible for the Commonwealth Government to make funds available for the purpose outlined by the deputation. The Commonwealth Government has, however, since arranged to make £200,000 available to the State governments in 1937-38 for vocational training and placement of unemployed youths between eighteen and 25 years of age. 
The deputation did not ask for anything of the sort; it asked for a contribution from the Commonwealth Government towards the increasing cost of education. 
On the 30th June, I asked the following further question ; - 
Whether consideration has been given to the decisions of the conference of the Australian Teachers' federation held recently in Melbourne to the effect (I) that education should bc consummated on a national basis; (2) that a grant of loan money to bc used in the direction of relief of unemployment, while most welcome, is not all that is essential; (3) that education shall be a charge upon the Commonwealth as well as State budgets, and that the Commonwealth subsidize education? 
The Leader of the Senate gave the following reply: - 
The Acting 'Prime Minister has supplied the following answer : - 
Representations were recently made by the Australian Teachers' Federation urging that the matter of financial assistance for education bc accepted as a Commonwealth as well as a State responsibility. The Federation was informed that the Commonwealth Government could not see its way to assume financial responsibility for grants for the purpose of education. 
It is quite obvious that it is useless to make any of these appeals to the present Government. Members of this Parliament, State Ministers and deputations may make these requests, but the Government goes placidly on its way prating of prosperity, happy in the knowledge that its share of it is ample, totally indifferent to the sufferings of tens of thousands of people to whom prosperity has not arrived. 
It was not said by way of interjection; it was a definite statement in reply. I made the challenge that oil would not be included. 
.- I had left the chamber on business, but hearing that  Senator Collings  was on his feet, I putaside what I had to do, in order that J might not deprive myself of the pleasure of hearing him. I came into the chamber when the honorable senator was making a dissertation on the necessity for the imposition of an embargo on the export of Corriedale sheep. The first thing that struck me in connexion with his observations on Corriedale sheep, iron ore and the deputation from Lancashire, was that in my researches to find out exactly what the defence policy of his party is, I came across on more than one occasion - and I had heard it also from his own lips on other occasions - the statement that one of the main means by which the Labour party hopes to secure peace is by cultivating friendly relations with other powers. How would the senator cultivate friendly relations with other powers? Some friendly power suggests that we can export some Corriedale stud sheep, in the breeding of which  Senator Guthrie  has been so successful.  Senator Collings  would: say "No, we don't want them for ourselves, but we shall not deal with you ". Reversing; the words of Shylock he would say "I shall not buy with you, nor sell with you". There are iron deposits at Yampi Sound which, have been known to capitalists and miners for many years and have never been developed. Proposals are made now that, instead of allowing them to lie in the ground, extensive plans should be made for their development. " No ", says  Senator Collings  " we shall not deal with you ; we shall not let you in ; we shall not trade with you, nor shall we let you trade with us; let the iron ore waste in the ground rather than that we should allow you to mine it ". 
We are not short of iron ore and we took the greatest precautions in whatever we did about Yampi Sound. We communicated with the British Government which expressed a perfect willingness that we should go on with any action for the export- of iron ore. Furthermore, Western Australia has control of these deposits, and it was the Labour Government of that State which entered into the leases with the companies concerned, and the only voice the Australian Government could have in the matter would be to prohibit the export of iron ore. As, however, there have been no exports of iron ore to date, the Commonwealth Government could have taken no part in the controversy about Yampi Sound. The honorable senator also said that when the Lancashire delegation came to Australia, it gave to this Government orders as to what it should do in regard to certain textile imports. That is the sort of thing that the honorable senator thinks he is entitled to say; he knows there is not a word of truth in it.   Senator Collings.  - I do not think it if quite fair to say that I know there -is not a word of truth in a statement which I made. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  I ask that it be withdrawn. 
In deference to your ruling,  Mr. Deputy President,  I withdraw it, and shall now proceed to deal with the subject in another way. '.£ hope that I shall be able to teach the Leader of the Opposition how to be severe without being unparliamentary. When the honorable senator said that the delegation from Lancashire came out to give this Government its orders, did he want this Senate to believe that he believed that to be true? 
What is his authority for saying that? It appears to me that there is as much turpitude in saying things which you do not know to be true as in. saying things which you know to be false. Obeying the ruling of the  Deputy President,  I accuse the honorable senator of having in this senior branch of the legislature given publicity to a statement which he has no grounds whatever for believing to be true, and which, in fact, is not true. In a moment of courage, the honorable senator approached a member of the Lancashire delegation. The same policy was revealed in what the honorable senator is supposed to have said to  Sir Ernest  Thompson when he asked him if it were not true that British manufacturers were equipping Japan with the latest weaving machinery, and so better fitting that country to compete with Great Britain. Does the honorable senator think that it is the duty of English manufacturers to inquire exactly what is to be done with the things they are selling? These are the methods which the honorable senator would employ in order to cultivate friendly relations with the rest of the world, and so secure peace for Australia. 
Great Britain is a manufacturing country, and it sells the peaceful products of its manufacturers to any country. 
In regard to the difference of opinion concerning the sanctions question, I repeat that the right honorable senator said that he wants no wars on foreign fields for economic treasure. The honorable senator said that that statement was made when the Sanctions Bill was before this chamber. I said that that was not so, but that it was said when there was a discussion on a motion by the Leader of the Senate concerning a paper setting out the position of the Italo-Abyssinian dispute. The honorable senator accused me of being inaccurate. 
I have done so. and I suggest that the honorable senator should do likewise at his leisure. Later, the Sanctions Bill came before the Senate, and the honorable senator made another statement as to the policy of the Labour party in the matter of defence, setting out, among other things, the egregious clause that no troops should be sent outside Australia except by the consent of the Australian people. 
We have had again, for the second time during the last few days, references to the ,  Unlawful Assemblies Ordinance which was promulgated to prevent congregations of people outside this House. 
I never even saw it until it was actually printed ; but I have read it carefully, and I see how easy it is to misread it and to give a totally wrong impression as to its contents and purpose. In the first place, the principle that Parliament shall be kept quite free from outside terrorism, or undue or improper influence, is in accordance with the very oldest traditions of the British Parliament. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

May's  Parliamentary Practice,  Thirteenth Edition, says at page 180, on the question of protecting members of parliament from pressure or interruption in the course of their duties - 
To facilitate the attendance of members without interruption, both houses, at the commencement of each session, by order, give directions that the commissioner of thepolice of the metropolis shall keep, during the session of parliament, the streets leading to the houses of parliament free and open,and that no obstruction shall be permitted to hinder the passage thereto of the lords or members. 
When tumultuous assemblages of people have obstructed the thoroughfares, lobbyor passages, orders have been given to the local authorities to disperse them. 
With the same object, it is enacted that not more than ten persons shall repair together to the houses of parliament forthe purpose of the presentation of a petition : and that not more than fifty personsshall meet together within the distance of one mile from the gate of Westminster Hall, save and except such parts of the parish of St. Paul's, Coven t Garden, as are within the said distance, to consider or prepare a petition or other address to both houses, or either house of parliament, on any day on which those houses shall meet and sit. 
Ialways understood that Great Britain had a reputation not for tyranny but for liberty and its preservation. Indeed the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  told us that not even Parliament was allowed - of course that is by constitutional custom only - to infringe the liberties of the people. Many States in Australia have legislation similar to the Unlawful Assemblies Ordinance of the Federal Capital Territory. I do not know whether the honorable senator ever heard of the Riot Acts, which are still in force. 
It has been in operation in Victoria for many years. It is not correct to say that it was passed only in times of trouble arising out of the war. My impression, although I have not checked it, is that many of the other States have similar legislation, but whether or not there is any such power on their statute-books, it none the less is true that it is a common law right of parliament to protect itself from interrupt ion. 
I was just about to refer to the ridiculous observation which the honorable senator made before dinner, namely that the difference between the people of Canberra and the people of the other places was that the residents of the Federal Capital had no vote, and therefore were apparently free from the ordinary restraints on disorder. 
They have ample facilities for voicing their grievances, and they had them both before and after the original ordinance was passed. 
The Leader of the Opposition can bear that in mind. 
I will have some further illustrations to give him in a moment. I want him to see what it is that this ordinance, apart from the repetitions which occur in all acts of parliament, does really say. What is aimed at is not what the honorable senator has said. It is not to prevent people from discussing public affairs or matters of public interest, or considering or preparing or presenting a petition, memorial, or complaint. The vital part of the regulation is that assemblages of more than twenty persons in or about the precincts of Parliament, to hold public meetings or to ventilate their grievances, are prohibited. The whole of Canberra otherwise is open to them, subject to the rights of private property. There are any number of open spaces, and all that the ordinance says is that these public meetings shall not be held within a very limited distance of Parliament House. 
The original ordinance made the area unnecessarily large. Having regard to the plan, which is a schedule to the ordinance, it does not seem to me that there was anything extraordinarily tyrannical even about the limitations that were contained in the first ordinance before it was amended. 
It could be done, if the Government chose to be tyrannical, and if it disregarded the fact that there was a Parliament sitting here as a check on acts of tyranny. I am sure that  Senator DuncanHughes  does not think the wisest way to test the justice of an act of Parliament is to consider what could be done under it if it was not honestly interpreted. We, for instance, live in a country in which the Parliament can any day pass a law enacting that all bald-headed men or white-headed men should be executed forthwith, but we do not live in any terror lest Parliament should dothis, because we realize that we are a free people. 
There may be, but the parliamentary power stands at the back of the executive power. 
Then this Parliament can rescind it at any time it likes. The honorable senator made great capital out of a recital of the wording of the ordinance relating to complaints, remonstrances, declarations or other redress, all of which meant the same thing with slight variations, and all of which are merely included in order that a specious-tongued defendant shall not escape on technicalities. If the Leader of the Opposition were interfered with by the police, and told that he was holding a meeting, he would possibly say that he was merely preparing a remonstrance, and if they said that he was getting a petition ready, he would say, " Oh no, I am just discussing a public grievance." 
I am confident that they are the sort of tricks the honorable senator would resort to in any case. All that is intended by the ordinance is the prohibition of public meetings within a certain distance of Parliament House. Then honorable senators opposite got hold of another point. They said: "Penalty £100 or six months' imprisonment," and the Leader of the Opposition advised that any one arrested should go to gaol and do his six months. Again he and his colleagues have failed to realize what that provision means. By the Acts Interpretation Act it is decreed that the penalty mentioned after any offence shall be the highest penalty, so that under this ordinance a man might be fined half a crown, but he could not be fined more than £100. I said that, even if it were not true that acts of parliament were on the statute-books of the different States, there was a common law power to keep Parliament free from interruption. In order to illustrate that, let me show that Parliament does sometimes exercise its common law power. In the  Age  of the 7th August, 1937, under the heading of "Relief Workers'" "Demonstration in Brisbane " the following telegram appeared: - 
Brisbane, Friday. - When 600 relief workers assembled outside Parliament House gates today to demand aninterview with the Premier- 
They never ask or solicit or sue or go in the guise of suppliants - and present a claim for improved conditions, an ugly scene was averted only by the tactfulness of the police- 
Those are the men who are going to do all the mischief on the steps of Parliament House at Canberra, according to the honorable senator- 
Though 60 police wore present, the demonstration more than once threatened to get out of hand. Blows were exchanged in several minor scrimmages, but nothing serious occurred. The police later shepherded the crowd to the Domain, where it was decided that the Unemployed and Relief Workers State Council should organize a State-wide conference for the 5th and6th November- 
One of those days is Guy Fawkes day. 
I am only reading what the  Age  says, that they were to organize a conference for the 5th or 6th November, and I reminded the honorable senator that the 5th was Guy Fawkes day. The  Age  report continued - and should take strike action on all relief jobs. It was agreed that trade union support should be sought. After the meeting, the men returned and again demanded - 
They did not solicit, or remonstrate, or beg, or ask - that the Premier should receive a deputation. 

 - Mr. Forgan Smith, the Labour Premier of Queensland - 
Thiswas refused, and they then tried to hold a procession down Queen-street, but the police kept them to the footpaths. 
Matters did not end there, because one week later, the following appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  of the 14th August, 1937, under the headings of  " Clashes with Police, " " Brisbane ReliefWorkers." 
Brisbane, Friday. - Relief workers engaged in several sharp clashes with the police today, when, failing again in efforts to interview the Premier  (Mr. Forgan Smith)  at ParliamentHouse, they tried to hold a procession down Queen-street. There were a dozen or more 'incidents, which in ordinary circumstances, would have merited arrest, but the police contented themselves with scattering the demonstrators. One man, of Russian nationality, was arrested, following a scuffle in which Detective Purcell was struck a heavy blow on the ear. A squad of 100 police was on duty outside Parliament House to cope with the crowd of 500 unemployed. Traffic in Queen-street was disorganizedfor twenty minutes. 
This seems to be an extraordinary condition of affairs to prevail in the workers' paradise of which we hear so much from the honorable senator opposite, but there it is. This Labour Premier seems to be inexorable. They come at him time after time, and still he will not interview them. Instead of bringing 500 police up here on the steps of Parliament House, we simply pass an ordinance and have a policeman there, whereupon the orderly residents of Canberra will go elsewhere and hold their demonstration. I have wasted time, I think, in showing the necessity for the ordinance, because it seems to me that no matter how strongly the Leader of the Opposition has spoken against it, he sits there as the best possible illustration of the necessity for it. I shall tell the Senate why. Supposing that some unemployed person in Canberra with a voice similar to that of the Leader of the Opposition stood on a box immediately outside the doors of Parliament House and delivered an oration, with his cusomary tom-tom accompaniment, what possible chance would Parliament have to conduct its deliberations? It is the duty of Parliament and of the Government to exercise foresight, and, having done so in this instance, this ordinance has been framed. Of course, if honorable senators opposite find little reason tocriticize the Government, they must fall back upon trifles. If they have only trifles such as this to deal with during the forthcoming election campaign, it will be obvious that they have no real criticisms to offer. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Dein)  adjourned. 
[8.18].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the bill is to appropriate £3,721,000 for new works to  be  undertaken during the current financial year. In the budget speech, the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  indicated that the proposed expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for public works this year would be £7,721,500. Of this amount an appropriation of £3,721,000 only is now required since the following special appropriations have already been granted by Parliament: - 

<graphic href="154332193709094_30_0.jpg"></graphic>

Details of £3,721,000 will be found on pages 276 and 278 of the Estimates, and also in the schedule to this bill. The distribution of this amount and the corresponding actual expenditure for last financial year are as follow : - 

<graphic href="154332193709094_30_1.jpg"></graphic>

The decrease of £1,111,048 in departments and services, other than business undertakings and territories, is entirely due to the fact that provision for defence works from revenue is limited to £8,000, as compared with an expenditure of £1,132,036 in 1936-37. A comparison of the means of financing new defence works this year and last year shows : - 

<graphic href="154332193709094_31_3.jpg"></graphic>

To cover the proposed expenditure of £2,500,000 from loan, a further bill will be submitted at a later date. 
The expenditure on postal, telegraph and telephone works last financial year was £2,419,079. The provision in this bill is £2,250,000. In addition £1,000,000. of last year's excess receipts will be devoted to this purpose, and it is proposed to submit a special bill to appropriate that sum. The total provision of £3,250,000 is necessary to meet the everincreasing demands for these works, particularly telephone services. As honorable senators are aware, this class of expenditure is of a distinctly reproductive character. An additional £154,271 is provided to continue the developmental policy in the territories. 
I do. not propose to go into detail in regard to these Estimates, as full information concerning specific works to bc undertaken during this year will, if desired, be given in committee. It lias been the practice for many years to ask Parliament to consider the new works proposals of the Government as soon as possible after the budget speech has been delivered. This is desirable so that new projects may proceed early in the financial year, and dislocation of employment be avoided. 
Although I have just stated that it is not my intention to deal with the items in detail, the defence expenditure for this financial year is of such importance that it is necessary and desirable to give to the Senate some of its main features. 

 Senator Sir*  George Pearce. 
The new naval expenditure provided for this year is £1,244,000. The navy programme aims at raising thu present squadron to the highest degree of effectiveness, and providing for the local seaward defences of our ports  a.gainst  attacks by submarines and minelayers. Following are the important projects to be undertaken: - 
The Admiralty is increasing the armour protection of the 8-inch gun cruisers in the Royal Navy, and the H.M.A.S.  Australia  and  Canberra  will be similarly armoured. H.M.A.S.  Australia  will be commenced this financial year. The armour plate is on order, and the work will be undertaken at Cockatoo Dock. The large refit for which this ship is shortly due will also be carried out. The crew of the  Australia  will be used to commission the seaplane carrier  Albatross  and the destroyer  Voyager.  H.M.A.S.  Australia  and  Canberra  are to be equipped with modern and additional anti-aircraft guns and control arrangements for anti-aircraft defence. H.M.A.S.  Adelaide,  which still has many years of effective life, is to be converted to an oil-burning ship at. Cockatoo Dock. The local seaward defences of the ports will involve the provision of special equipment, buildings at the various ports for its storage, an anti-submarine school, and a certain number of specialist personnel for the technical equipment. In connexion with the booms and other devices to be provided for harbour entrances, three local seaward defence vessels will be constructed at Cockatoo Dock. Strategical naval wireless stations are to be erected at Darwin and Canberra. These stations are considered of vital importance in the scheme of Australian defence in connexion with the operations of our warships, determining the routes of merchant shipping, and intelligence reports relating to the movements of enemy ships in the waters adjacent to Australia. 
The new army expenditure provided for this year is £1,277,000. The bulk of the increased provision under the army vote is being devoted to (a) Continuing the strengthening of the fixed coast defences of the main ports; (fe) A further instalment of the anti-aircraft defences of the main ports. 
Following are the main steps being taken at the various ports: - 
Sydney. - The 9.2-inch and 6-inch armament has been installed and various small items of equipment and works remain to be completed. Anti-aircraft guns and searchlights also are to be provided. 
Newcastle. - In view of the vital importance of this industrial centre to Australia, a commencement will be made this year with the installation of the modern armament shortly to be delivered. Antiaircraft guns and searchlights also are to be provided. 
Fremantle. - The installation of the 9.2-inch and 6-inch armament will be completed this year. Anti-aircraft guns and searchlights alsoare to be provided. 
Melbourne (Port Phillip defences). - The Port Phillip defences are to be modernized by reconditioning the fire command, communication and defence electric light systems. Anti-aircraft guns and searchlights also are to be provided. 
Hobart. - The existing armament and equipment at Fort Nelson are to bo transferred to a new site in order to render more effective the defence of Hobart. 
General observation. - Provision has now been made for the fixed coast and anti-aircraft defences of Sydney and Fremantle, up to the point contemplated in the first stage of the general scheme of defence against raids. All anti-aircraft guns to be provided will be manufactured at Maribyrnong. 
Increased provision has been made for the maintenance of the army on a more efficient basis. The Permanent Forces will be increased by148 during 1937-38 to provide additional instructional staff, personnel for coast defence, and technical staff for the more complicated modern equipment. An increase of the staff corps is to be provided, by maintaining the present entry of 22 cadets to the Royal Military College. The strength of the Militia Forces has been increased from 26,295 to 35,000, as the result of the action taken by the Government for the improvement of the voluntary training system. These improved conditions will be maintained. 
Provision has been made for additional storehouse and other staff, and for sup plies for the reconditioning and more effective maintenance of stocks of war material. 
An extensive programme of army works and buildings is in hand to provide for new drill halls and additions and alterations, in order to furnish improved conditions under the voluntary system of training. 
The free grant of Mark VII. 303-in. ammunition, half of which was restored last year, is now to be restored in full to rifle clubs. 
The new air force expenditure provided for this year is £1,430,000. 
During the progress of the three years' programme, the development of aircraft for military purposes proceeded at an extraordinarily rapid rate, and types with considerably higher performances than those contemplated when the programme was prepared became available.  By  comparison with the types originally set down for purchase, the later types of aircraft are 100 miles an hour faster, carry double the bomb load, and have a greatly increased range. These higher performances arc obtainable, however, only at greater cost, and additional funds have therefore been provided for the increased cost of aircraft purchased under the three years' programme. The increase of 353 in permanent personnel, making a total strength of 2,472, is due to the introduction of the higher performance aircraft, which require more extensive maintenance and larger operating crews.  Owing to a substantial rise of the price of building materials and building costs generally, a large additional amount is provided this year for the completion of works and building projects estimated at a much lower figure in the original air force programme. 
Provision is made towards the equipment, aerodrome, emergency services and buildings required for the formation of a general purpose squadron, to be located eventually at a new Air Force station at Darwin. This squadron will be equipped with reconnaissance and fighter bomber aircraft. The first line strength of the Air Force will be 108 aircraft, as against 114 contemplated in the original Salmond scheme, and 198 proposed in the revised scheme approved by the Council of Defence. 
An additional 137 officers and airmen of the Citizen Air Force will he required during the year to complete the establishment of the Citizen Air Force squadron at Pearce, "Western Australia. 
Certain essential war reserves, including bombs and ammunition and aviation spirit, are to be provided. The new munitions supply expenditure provided for this year is £611,000. 
At the Imperial Conference, the principles of Empire defence, as laid down in 1923 and 1926, were extended to provide for the decentralization of the production of munitions, .so as to diminish., as far as practicable, the dependence of dominions on the United Kingdom, and to provide for the extension of overseas resources in time of emergency. The munitions supply development programme may be divided into three broad divisions - 
The expansion of existing resources of local production of munitions by the modernization and extension of existing factories, laboratories and proof stations to place them on a thoroughly satisfactory footing. This involves extensive work at the ammunition factory. Footscray.; the explosives and ordnance factories and the munitions supply laboratories, Maribyrnong; the small arms factory, Lithgow;, and the proof range, Wakefield, South Australia. 
Additions to the gun ammunition factory, Footscray, for production of cartridge cases for anti-aircraft ammunition; to the ordnance factory, Maribyrnong, for production of a new type antiaircraft gun and mountings; and to the machine gun factory, Lithgow, for production of the Bren machine gun. 
The provision of the substantial amount of £100,000 as a first step for placing orders of an educational nature with local manufacturers, so that the potentialities of industry may be accurately gauged. It is also anticipated that additional funds will be made available from the normal votes of the services for this purpose. 
 In order that the plans for industrial mobilization may be accelerated, the permanent staff on this work is being more than doubled, and additional technical investigators are now in course of training. Liaison officers of the chambers of manufactures have been appointed in each State, whilst direct approach is also being made to other trade organizations and individual companies. 
Provision is made for the commencement of the Empire air mail scheme with flying boats early in 1938. The Sydney and Rabaul service will also be inaugurated next year. In view of the vital importance of radio and meteorological aids to air navigation, arrangements are well advanced for the establishment of these facilities at capital city aerodromes and at essential intermediate places along the inter-capital routes. In keeping with the increase of regular services and the necessity for facilities for night flying, an active policy of improvement and development of aerodromes throughout the Commonwealth is being continued. This provides for the enlargement of landing areas, the construction of hard-surfaced runways for wet weather operations, the installation of lighting equipment at aerodromes and airway beacons along the air routes. 
The position in regard to the local shipbuilding industry is that orders are in view for the immediate future for a total amount of £500,000 for cruiser reconstruction and the local seaward defence vessels. The bulk of this expenditure will be on wages. There is also the probability that, when the consultations with the United Kingdom Government are completed regarding facilities at flying boat bases, several launches will be required. In addition, consideration is being given to the question of local construction of two target-towing launches for the army.- 
The educational orders to industry will in the first place be for such items as steel shell bodies for the navy and army, steel and iron bomb bodies for the air force, and brass primers for army shell. These orders will contribute to employment and ultimately should lead to local industry participating in the building up of the necessary reserves of munitions. 
The equipment of the naval wireless stations will be produced in Australia. Orders are in hand for the supply of medium and ultra short wave radio navigational aids and beacons, the major portion of which will be of local manufac-  ture.  In addition, arrangements have been made for the manufacture of rotating beacons previously obtained from overseas. These items, which will prove of great value to both military and civil aviation, represent important new spheres of manufacture in Australia. 
The works expansion programmes of the Government factories and the navy, army, air force, and civil aviation branch, will be beneficial to employment. In addition to the normal annual requirements for the maintenance of the forces in the forms of food, clothing and other supplies, substantial purchases have been made of practice shot, bomb castings and certain machine tools not previously produced by civil industry, while contracts have been arranged for large supplies of cotton piece goods of a quality previously unobtainable in the Commonwealth. Considerable contracts were also arranged for foodstuffs and wheat for shipment to Empire defence establishments in the East and elsewhere. 
The new government factories, upon completion, will create a demand for labour and materials. The expenditure in the last financial year on wages at the factories was approximately £540,000, and the number of employees at the 30th June was two and a half times greater than during the depression. Similarly, the value of orders during the past year was over five times larger. The increased local production of munitions formerly imported, and the growing sales to other governments, will add to these advantages. 
The preparatory organization and erection of buildings and the provision of plant for the local manufacture of airframes and engines is well advanced. The establishment of this industry, which ultimately will give employment to some 700 Australians, is a further example of the Government's policy of sound development of local manufacture, and represents a notable advance towards the goal of self-containment. As already announced, the Government has intimated its preparedness to place an order for 40 aircraft complete with engines, and also ten spare engines, subject to agreement as to price -and other main heads of the proposed contract. 
An important feature of the defence expenditure is the large amount that is being spent locally. Of the total provision of £11,500,000 for the current financial year, it is anticipated that £9,500,000 will be expended in Australia and £2,000,000 overseas, mainly on items of modern equipment of a technical nature and advanced types of aircraft which it is not possible to produce locally. The manner of development of the Commonwealth defences is such that the financial capacity of. the country to provide for its security is being increased by the stimulation that is being given to local production and employment. 
Within the last few days there have been references to other matters connected with the Government's defence proposals, and it is fitting that I should, at this stage, state what has been done. On the 3rd September,  Senator Payne  referred to the claims of North- West Bay, south of Hobart, as a site for a' naval base. As promised, I conveyed his remarks to the Minister for Defence, who now informs me that Snug Beach Tourist and Progress Association urged the claims of North- West Bay as a site for the establishment of a sea and airplane base and munitions centre. I am advised that the Australian naval squadron, during its visits to Tasmanian waters, uses this bay in common with other anchorages in the Hobart area from time to time. Owing to the distances of this area from the main base of supply, it is not possible to use the Hobart area as the main exercise area of the squadron. It will, however, continue to be used as an alternative exercise ground. The Naval Board states that from the strategical point of view there is no justification for incurring expenditure in the establishment of a naval base near Hobart under existing conditions. 
The flying training school for the Royal Australian Air Force, which amply meets present requirements, is located at Point Cook, Victoria, and no necessity arises for the extension of this activity to Tasmania. A company recently formed for the manufacture of aircraft in Australia selected a site at Fishermen's Bend, Melbourne, as the most suitable location for its factory. 
In regard to the manufacture of munitions, the Government does not, at present, envisage the establishment of factories in new localities. As the honorable senator is, no doubt, aware, certain extensions in respect of munitions manufacture are contemplated, but these will consist of additions to the existing Government munitions factories which are located at Lithgow in New South Wales, and Maribyrnong andFootscray, in Victoria. 
I understood the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  10 say that approximately £100,000 will be allocated among manufacturers in the different States. 
It has been represented to me that it should be distributed in all the States. I am not suggesting the allocation of any particular amount to South Australia, but I think the defence authorities should confer with military officers in the various States with a view to getting the best value for the expenditure to be incurred. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
Prime Minister's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £40,100. 
Is the vessel for the development of the fisheries industry, for which £16,230 is set down, the one we have heard about for approximately two years? 
It is the same vessel. It was thought that it would be possible to launch the vessel this month, but probably another month or six weeks will elapse before the launching can take place. Unfortunately, delays have occurred in the construction of the vessel. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - Department of External Affairs, £350 - agreed to. 
Department of the Treasury. 

 Proposed vote, £6,010. 
The sum of £3,170 is set down for buildings, works, sites, fittings and furniture. I should like to see some of this money used to erect suitable cottages, more worthy of the Government and of Canberra, to replace the atrocious slums at Molonglo. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposedvote - Attorney-General's Department, £1,630 - agreed to. 
Department of the Interior. 

 Proposed vote, £303,740. 
.- The sum of £90,000 is set down for " expenditure under River Murray Waters Act 1915-1934 ". Can the Minister say whether this is a continuing amount from year to year, or is it the final payment in connexion with the Hume Weir? 
.- For the erection of a building at the Forestry School, Canberra, the sum of £1,000 is provided. A footnote indicates that the estimated further liability is £2,200. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  told us yesterday that there were only five students at the school, although it was hoped that the number would be increased next year. Is there any guarantee that that will be so? On a previous occasion, I drew attention to the lack of harmony that existed between the principal of this school and the forestry officers in at least two of the States, resulting in students not coming forward as was hoped. The existing building is capable of accommodating more students than there are at present. Is there any guarantee that the Forestry School, which has been somewhat of a white elephant in the past, will  be  better, patronized by the States in the future? 
[8.52]. - The total estimated cost of £3,200 refers to" an additional building which it is proposed to erect at the rear of the Australian Forestry School building at Canberra, in order to provide accommodation for  a  museum,  a  carpenter's shop, seed store and  a  place for the storage of publications. A photographic dark-room is also included in the plan. The development of investigational work necessitates the storage of a large quantity of material and of provision for photography, which will form an important part of the research activities. This work has been deferred for several years for financial reasons, and it is now desired to make a commencement with it. I point out that there are two activities - forestry work proper, and the forestry school. The building will be used in connexion with both activities. Although there are at present only five students completing the course, the Minister assures me that there Ls indication of  a  greater number in the immediate future. The school is capable of doing most valuable work in the interest of forestry throughout Australia, and of saving the States which co-operate with the Commonwealth a large expenditure on similar institutions in their own territories. 
Can the Minister say what  the  total cost of the Australian War Memorial in Canberra will be? I should also like to know whether any portion of the memorial is yet open to the public, and, if not, when is it expected that that stage will be reached? If there is to  be  a long delay in opening the whole of the memorial, will the Government contemplate opening  a  portion of it to the public? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia- Minister for External Affairs) [8.54].- The sum of £50,000 set down for the Australian War Memorial, Canberra, is required to supplement  the  balance of £33,217 standing to the credit of the War Memorial  Canberra  trust account at the 30th June, 1937, in order  to  meet expenditure in connexion with the completion of the initial section of the building, and to enable a commencement to be made with the final section of the work. The position of the trust account is  as  follows: - 

<graphic href="154332193709094_36_4.jpg"></graphic>

The initial section of the work has been practically completed, although services in the nature of floor coverings, provision of show oases, and the installation of central heating, have had to be deferred, for various reasons. In July, 1936, Cabinet gave consideration to the proposals submitted for the completion of the building, and subsequently approved of tenders being called at a maximum cost of £160,000. A sum of £14,000- part of a total of £30,000 - was provided in the Estimates for 1936-37, and paid to the trust account,. but no expenditure was incurred in that direction during the year. It  is  now anticipated that  a  tender will be let at an early date, and accordingly a further sum of £50,000 has been included in these Estimates. It will be paid to the credit of the trust account. The total amount which will be available for expenditure during 1937-3S on the supply of floor coverings, provision of show cases, the installation of central heating, and the erection of final sections, will be £83,217. and it is estimated that that amount will he fully expended. It will be necessary to provide a further sum of £96,000 in 3938 to complete the work. 
Can the Minister say whether the sum of £23,000 set down for the erection of, and additions and alterations to, meteorological buildings, refers to buildings at Darwin, or to buildings scattered throughout the Commonwealth ? 
I should also like to know where the fittings and furniture, for which £4,300 is to be provided, will be installed. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [8.58].  -  The amount is required for the following services: - 
Revotes in respect of uncompleted works at the 30th June, 1937 - 

<graphic href="154332193709094_37_0.jpg"></graphic>

The sum of £4,300 set down for fittings and furniture is a new item which has been created to provide for the supply of fittings and furniture required by the following branches of the Department of the Interior : Administrative, Works and Services, Civic, Property and Survey, Meteorological, Electoral, Solar Observatory, Forestry, and War Memorial, and also for the Federal Members Booms. In past years,  provision was made for these servicesin the ordinary services section of the Estimates, but as such expenditure is regarded as being of a capital nature, an appropriate vote has been made under the section dealing with additions, new works, &amp;c. 
 When did the Commonwealth assume the responsibility for the repair of meteorological buildings in the various States. I understood that the buildings were to remain the property of the States. If that be so, I should imagine that the Commonwealth is not responsible for rebuilding them. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable senator is under a misapprehension in regard to those buildings; they were taken over from the States many years ago. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Departmentof Defence. 

 Proposed vote, £8,000. 
Will the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  explain the meaning of the item " educational orders and associated services " ? 
[9.2] .  -  I fully explained that in my second-reading speech on this bill. A total of £100,000 has been set aside for the placing of educational orders with manufacturers for certain defence material in order that they may be able to acquire a knowledge of their manufacture; thus, in the event of emergency, we would be able to utilize our private factories for the manufacture of munitions of war in addition to those produced by the government factories. 
Will the Leader of the Senate explain what buildings, works, sites, fittings and furniture are provided for under division 23? 
 The provision of various sums for educational orders and associated services for the three arms of the defence forces is a very wise one, and is, as far as I am aware, an innovation in this country. I suggest, however, that the total provision is insufficient. 
I agree, but it must be remembered that the whole of the material produced as a result of the expenditure of this money will be used for defence purposes. 
Senatorfoll.  -  If manufacturers had wanted more than £100,000, they would have asked for it. 
I notice that only £15,000 is provided for educational orders for the navy. That is a very small amount, which obviously will not go very far, and seems paltry when compared with the total amount to be expended on  defence this year. I regard these educational orders as essential to the future defence of Australia. I have no doubt that the expenditure of this money will demonstrate the ability of Australian factories to produce our munitions requirements in time of national emergency. I believe at the present time that Australian manufacturers are not given the opportunities they deserve in this respect, as much of our defence material which could be manufactured in Australia is imported. For quite a long time a body of highly skilled engineers in "Sydney has been asking that provision similar to this should be made and they have expressed their willingness to co-operate. 
I stressed the necessity for provision of this kind eighteen months ago, and I have spoken about it many times since, and for years before the general public I have stressed its importance, but on every occasion I have done so in this chamber at least one honorable senator, who is supposed to be an authority in these matters, has said that I waa talking "bunkum." Although it has been said in the past that experimental orders have been placed with Australian manufacturers and a set plan fixed, I have repeatedly been informed by outside but interested persons that no such action had been taken. I was informed recently by a member of the House of Representatives that for a considerable time highly skilled engineers have been clamouring for the provision of funds for the defence vote for this purpose. Those highly skilled engineers are willing to give their services on a council of investigation in a purely honorary capacity. 
No; but I should be pleased to see it increased. I pay tribute to this Government for its vigorous defence policy, but at the same time 1 say that at no other period in Australia's history has the necessity for a comprehensive defence programme been so urgent. With the experience gained from experimental orders, Australian manufac turers will be able quickly to -turn out our requirements of war materials in the event of emergency. 
.- I am quite in accord with the provision of funds for educational orders, but at the same time I do not want the position of manufacturers to be misunderstood. As long as the expenditure of money is confined to orders of an educational nature it will be all right. Australian manufacturers have no desire to enter into the commercial manufacture of munitions for profit, but they want to be placed in a position to be able to turn out war materials when they are wanted. I do not want it to be thought that our manufacturers are trying to make money out of the manufacture of munitions in Australia. The Government is doing the right thing in making this money available, so that some factories will be ready to turn out munitions in time of emergency. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed Votes - Department of Trade and Customs, £40,000; Department of Health, £40,250; Department of Repatriation, £99,730; Department of Commerce £27,190 - agreed, to. 
Commonwealth Railways. 

 Proposed 
 vote, £269,000. 
Provision of £142,000 is made under item 1, division 31, for expenditure on the TransAustralian railway. If to reply to my questions does not involve too much detail, I should be glad to know from the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  if provision is included in this amount for the extension of the air-conditioning of the East-West express train, the completion of the ballasting, and if it is proposed to utilize some of this money for the purchase of larger type engines? Provision of £110,000 is made under item 5 for the Port Augusta to Port Pirie railway. I should be glad to know if this amount represents the final payment of the Commonwealth's share of the expenditure incurred in connexion with the extension of the 4-ft. 8^-in. gauge line to Port Pirie. 
[9.14]. - The services which it  is proposed to meet fromthe total vote of £269,000 are, Trans-Australian railway, purchase of locomotives, part only, £47,940 ; purchase of locomotives charged against the Port Pirie to Port Augusta line, £35,000; ballast on trans- Australian Railway, £63,500; air conditioning of carriages, £18,900; and improvements to permanent way, £7,000. This is all for Ihe trans-continental line. Then there are these general items : improvements to rolling stock, £12,500; miscellaneous minor works, £9,160, and the Port Augusta-Port Pirie construction, £75,000. That is not the total of the last-named item. The total amount was given some time ago, and the £75,000 is not the final payment. 
I understand that the item of £16,100 represents quite a number of small items of capital expenditure, with no particular outstanding amount. 
Is the fifth item " Port AugustaPortPirie Railway, £110,000 " a further instalment of the standardization of railway gauges? 
I am pleased to have that information. Am I to understand that that is the full application of the money for the standard gauge in that instance ? 
I take it that it is the intention of the Government still to press on. with the standardization of gauges through Australia in sections? 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  shouts to the skies that the Government is doing nothing, whereasthe fact is that the Government has done a great deal and intends to do a' great deal more. 
No, I simply want to assure myself, the Senate, and the public interested that the Government is still pressing on with the very important national work of standardizing the railway gauges on the main trunk systems running from State to State throughout Australia. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Postmaster-General's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £2,250,000. 
I draw attention to the first item " Telephone Exchange Services, £1,031,000." I congratulate the Minister on the excellent work done by his department in regard to the extension of telephone services throughout Australia, although I admit that there are still quite a number of pressing requests that I, with other Western Australian members, have lately put before him, for which we still await approval. There is, however, certainly no direction in which the Government is doing better work than in the extension of telephone services. But I ask the PostmasterGeneral why are not more automatic telephone exchanges established in the country districts? " We have quite a large number of them throughout Australia. As an experimental measure we have put a number of them in isolated country districts, and they have been very successful there, but the amount of money that brings one suburb under the automatic system would probably install it in several hundreds of the small exchanges that, have only 5 to 20 subscribers. It is in these outback places that automatic exchanges should first be put, because we cannot afford to have a well-paidofficer looking after an exchange for many hours, with perhaps only half a dozen or a dozen or a couple of dozen subscribers. By means of the automatic system we could, at comparatively small expense, give these isolated centres a continuous service. 
A mechanic could travel about and look after  quite a number. The system is being worked in many parts of Australia already, without a mechanic permanently located at each, and is successful. I commend the general administration of the department and the extension of telephone services, but I urge this further improvement upon him. Many country exchanges that are open for only a few hours of the day, some perhaps only for the morning, could be given the advantage of a long and continuous service if the Government installed the automatic system. These small exchanges are established in districts where there are not very many local amenities, where one has to send a good distance for machinery parts, or even for the more important medical requirements. In many of them, even if one is prepared to pay the opening fee, he cannot get attention after hours because there is no one living on the actual premises after a certain hour. I commend this aspect of the matter to the consideration of the Postmaster-General. 
The general policy of the department is to convert all manually operated exchanges to automatic working, but workable plant cannot be scrapped. That is to say, we cannot be uneconomic in making the conversions. Quite a number of places have been brought under my notice where the officers have reported that the plant is capable of giving good service for a few more years, and we have had for the present to withhold conversion in those instances. We have, however, already thirty-three or thirty-four rural automatic exchanges, and fifty more are in' contemplation for establishment. Four of these are in the State from which the honorable senator comes. Honorable senators may rest assured that while I remain in the department a steady attempt will be made to convert the whole system to automatic working, for the simple reason that I do not regard a service that stops at 6 p.m. as a real service to the country people. Tt. must go on later and be there for them to operate at all times. 
I wish to compliment the PostmasterGeneral on the service that he is giving to the country, and, as I said yesterday, on the generally satisfactory manner in which, the service is worked. I only wish that I could say the same about other items, particularly one in which he has delegated too much power to a commission. I should like to know whether the item of £500,000 for "buildings, works, sites, fittings and furniture ", includes the necessary .amount for the new post office at Brisbane, which has been promised to us for a very long while. We hope to see a start made' on that work very shortly. My colleague,  Senator Brown,  reminds me also that a very unsatisfactory state of affairs exists in the post office situated in Stanley-street. 
Has the Postmaster-General considered the advisability and possibility of reducing the wireless listeners' fee to 10s. 6d.? 
The Brisbane post office has been the subject of very lengthy investigation already, foi- the purpose of giving effect to the decision that was arrived at while we were in that city. It has been most difficult to work out these plans, and considerable differences of opinion arose between the Postmaster-General's Department and the Department for the Interior, which is entrusted with the architectural work. A conference took place there on the 23rd August and a nominal amount is provided on the Estimates for this year, because I do not anticipate that we shall do any actual work on the post office during it. The work has all to be mapped out carefully so that wo may carry on that vast service in Brisbane at the same time as we are carrying out the reconstruction, but I can assure the honorable senator that the matter is well in hand and that probably on the next Estimates a large provision will bc made for it. ' 
A few moments ago a question was put to me by  Senator Cooper  by interjection, about the provision of broadcasting stations in the north-west of Queensland. I have told the Senate on many occasions that this broadcasting business is being carried out according to a predetermined plan. We can go only so far as our money will let us, and so far as our scientific knowledge allows us, from time to time. It is intended to cover this very difficult region, of which the honorable senator has complained, and of which one of my colleagues in Cabinet has been constantly reminding us. Steps have been taken to improve the short wave service, which is already in operation at Lyndhurst, and I think that will relieve' the difficulty that I admit exists with regard to reception in north-west Queensland. 
.- I appreciate to the full the fact that the Postmaster-General's Department is greatly improving the telephonic service throughout the Commonwealth and giving more and more facilities to people who use the telephone. At the same time, the  president  of a Tasmanian producers' association has brought under my notice the fact that, in the opinion of his association, the country subscribers are handicapped to a great extent and penalized through no fault of their own by being a certain distance from the exchange. A little while ago I brought under the notice of the PostmasterGeneral representations made by this association, which he investigated and courteously replied to. To-day I received a reply to the communication I sent to that body, enclosing the PostmasterGeneral's reply to my representations. The letter is as follows - 
When dealing with your letter, and that of the Postmaster-General at our executive meeting last night, we noticed in the latter that the wording relating to country subscribers was very ambiguous. It stated that 90 per cent, of country subscribers "were connected" with exchanges that had a basic rental of £3 5s. That does not mean that 90 per cent, of country subscribers pay £3 5s.; we know that nothing like that number pay so little and, further, it must be remembered that business people on country exchanges make up a good percentage of those who are on the basis rental. Far too many farmer subscribers are paying more than the basis rental and we would suggest to you that you and your colleagues might put it strongly to the PostmasterGeneral that the basic rental should apply to subscribers up to the three-mile radial distance 
This would be some concession, would recognize the principle we hold, and give some relief to genuine farmer subscribers. 
I trust that the Postmaster-General will consider the request of the  president  of this important Tasmanian association, so that people living in country  districts will be in closer touch with those in the larger centres of population. The concession asked for is small, the cost would not be great, and if the request were complied with the number of subscribers would increase. 
 - I shall be pleased to consider the honorable senator's suggestion. All such requests are examined and reexamined, and the conveniences which telephone subscribers now enjoy are much greater than they were some time ago. My main objective is to see that an efficient service is provided. In the country section of our telephone service the expenditure is greater than the revenue. 
The Leader of the Opposition asked if it were, possible to expect a reduction of the listeners' licencefee. At- the opening of a new station at Orange I said that there is still a good deal to be done in completing our broadcasting system, and that several A class stations are still to be established. For that reason wave lengths have to be reserved for national stations yet to be erected; that is a reason why the number of wave lengths available is limited. 
The difficulty in that respect may be overcome by our experts. Although the department is at present showing a small profit on licence-fees, during the next financial year the expenditure will about, equal the revenue. Considerable cost is involved in supervising, preventing interference, and in radio research, and by next year practically the whole of the revenue will be absorbed. 
Brisbane will be considered with other centres should a suitable wave length be available. 

 Senator A. J. McLACHLAN.Four automatic telephone exchanges will be installed in Tasmania. 
It is not always wise to give such information, because things do not always work out as they are expected to do. I do not, therefore, wish to commit the department, but the four places it has in mind are: Glen Huon, Ridley, Tatana, and Winnaleah. 
 The proposed vote for the Postmaster-General's department is the largest in the schedule, and roughly one-third of the total amount to be appropriated. The proposed expenditure in other departments is either fairly close to the estimate or even below it. but this vote is a striking instance to the contrary. It seems unusual that the vote of £850,000 for 1936-37 should have been exceeded by nearly £500,000 in respect of telephone exchange services. The total proposed vote for the Postal Department for the year has been exceeded by £366,000. Why should there be such a discrepancy between the estimated and actual expenditure? The difference in connexion with the transcontinental railway is £20,000, which is negligible when compared with this vote, particularly when we remember that as the Postal Department does not embark upon new works with undue haste, it should be able to estimate its expenditure more accurately. There must be some reason why there is such a difference in the figure which incidentally has increased this year, and also has a further liability attached to it. 
 It was anticipated that funds would be obtained from loan moneys last year, but as no loan moneys were available, the expenditure is to be financed from revenue. Instead of receiving £600,000 of loan money, we obtained only £300,000. I realized last year that the vote for the department had been pruned too closely, but cabinet agreed with me that an increase should be made to provide for the extension of some important services. We have expended more money than we anticipated, because we had to work in accordance with the vote provided in the first instance. 
.- Some time ago, I complained because the Melbourne telephone exchange has not been converted to the automatic system, but I was assured that that would be done next year. 
I compliment the Postmaster-General upon the manner in which the work of his department is conducted. It is a business undertaking receiving considerable revenue from its customers, many of whom would not mind paying a little more for more efficient service. The time is rapidly approaching when the revenue of the department will have to be curtailed. It must be pleasing to the Postmaster-General to walk into the cabinet room with a smile on his face and say to his colleagues " Here is another £3,000,000 for you." In some business houses the employees are told to remember that the customer is always right, and I trust that that will be the slogan of this department. Two or three weeks ago, I complained concerning the service I was receiving,  and an  official of the department came to test my office telephone. He rang about ten different subscribers, and the rapidity with which he was answered was extraordinary. I have never received such prompt service and I was amused  at  the smug satisfaction he displayed with the results achieved. Recently my home in Melbourne was unoccupied  for a  week or so, and on my return from Canberra, I was notified by the department that numerous unsuccessful attempts had  been  made by the central exchange to raise my number. That, I think, is an instance of the businesslike way in which the department is conducted. 
 Some time ago there  was cause  for complaint concerning the manner in which the telephone services  in New  South Wales were conducted, but it is now  exceptionally good. Only this evening, the Treasurer informed me that, in speaking, to Melbourne to-day the clarity of reception was remarkable. We may very properly pay a high compliment to the officials .of this branch of the department for the excellent services now being rendered. I now direct the attention of the committee to the proposed vote for national broadcasting services. Last evening, the Postmaster-General, when replying to some criticism concerning the Australian Broadcasting Commission, said that excellent results had been obtained from short wave transmission. If my memory serves me aright, and I think it does, about two years ago the Director of Posts and Telegraphs declared that short wave wireless transmissions would be of no use in Australia. Now, as the results of experiments in all countries, the greater part of long distance reception is on the short wave, and very good. I consider also that the time has arrived when Australia should have high-powered stations. Che  Postmaster-General  said last night that this matter was receiving attention. E hope that a more definite announcement will be made in the near future of the Government's intention to erect at least one high-powered station in the Commonwealth. In this matter Australia is the most backward country in the world. Czechoslovakia, with a population of about 10,000,000, has a 200 kilowatt station with an aerial 900 feet high, and for many years in the United States of America, 500 kilowatt stations have been in operation. In New Zealand, the main broadcasting station is, as far as my memory serves, about four times larger, than any Australia station, and the whole of the equipment was manufactured by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. If we had a high-powered station, we could expect perfect transmission in every part of Australia. In war time high-powered stations are essential, in order to prevent enemy countries from jamming messages and thus interfering with the conduct of military operations and for many other purposes. I hope that the Minister is alive to the importance of this development. Large sums are spent annually in importing foreign artists at high salaries to entertain the listening public in Australia. In my opinion, it would be better to spend at least some portion of that money in establishing efficient high-powered stations. 
No. I am not quite so ridiculous as the honorable senator's interjection suggests the hair -brained proposal of a referendum is, or would be, under those conditions. In war time, as we all should know, messages are sent in code, which is altered from day to day and, on occasions, hourly. I hope also, that before long there will be a prospect of television broadcasts in Australia. 
It may interest  Senator Arkins  to knowthat some years ago when the. relative merits of medium and short wave transmissions were investigated by a committee of radio experts, there was a division of opinion. The final view was that for transmission in Australia, the medium wave-length would give the best results. I, in common with the honorable senator, considered myself something of a radio expert, and when I became ministerial head of the department, I was convinced that the experts were wrong; but I have had an opportunity since then to examine the position, and I am satisfied that the Government was well-advised to adopt the medium length wave for Australian broadcasting. I feel confident also that when the plans now in hand are completed,  Senator Arkins  will agree that the medium-wave transmission is giving efficient service to the people of Australia. 
While  Senator Arkins  was speaking a colleague sitting close to me suggested that in view of the Labour party's policy of defence not permitting any of our forces to be sent beyond the three-mile limit, the proposed high-power stations might be established, and  Senator Collings  persuaded to go to the microphone and talk the enemy to death before he came within the three-mile limit. 
After listening to the compliments that have been paid to the Postmaster-General and officers of his department, I almost feel that I should apologize for breaking the continuity. But I wish to bring under the notice of the Postmaster-General the urgent need for an improvement of the trunk line service to Mount Isa in Western Queensland. It is practically impossible to get trunk line messages through the steel telephone line between Cloncurry and Mount Isa. I have complained about this matter on several occasions. It is high time that a copper wire was substituted for the existing steel line. I have been informed that the volume of traffic does not warrant a new line. That answer is not satisfactory. The department could not expect an increase of traffic with the existing line, because it is impossible to get messages through satisfactorily. I have personal knowledge of the difficulties that are encountered, at Mount Isa, because I have tried on a number of occasions to speak from both ends of the line, and have found that it was utterly impossible to carry on a conversation. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  paid a visit to Mount Isa recently, and I understand that he had brought to his notice the inadequate living accommodation for the postmaster. As there is a permanent population of between 4,000 and 5,000 at Mount Isa, vvhere private enterprise has invested about £5,000,000 in developing the mining industry, it is surely not too much to expect the Postal Department to spare some portion of its huge surplus to provide decent accommodation. The local Progress Association, the Chamber of Manufactures, and the local branch of the Australian Workers Union, as well as the secretary of the Australian Labour party, have made representations to me on this subject. I hope that, in view .of the importance of the town, and the strong probability of developing a large volume, of trunk line traffic, steps will be taken immediately to replace the existing steel telephone wire with a copper line. 
 Senator Poll  will be glad to know that there is an amount on the Estimates this year to provide for a post office and staff quarters at Mount Isa, and also that a contract has been let for the supply of a certain number of telephone poles, the intention being to erect a copper wire between Cloncurry and Mount Isa to carry the trunk line traffic. 
'Can the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  say where the permanent studios and offices of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Perth are to be located? Pour or five years ago the commission bought two fine adjoining blocks in a central position in Perth, and prepared plans for the erection of buildings. The people of Western Australia were informed that up-to-date studios would be provided there, but the plans ultimately drawn were, for a building of only one storey. The Perth City Council and other interested parties objected to such a building in the heart of ' the city, and suggested that a two-storey structure should be erected. The commission then transferred its offices to an old wood and plaster building known as the Stirling Institute, and has since spent a good deal of money in renovating it. I cannot imagine that this building is to be the commission's permanent home. Can the Minister say how long the lease of these premises has to run, and when more modern studios and offices are likely to be erected? 
I should also like to know when the second national broadcasting station approved for Perth will be erected and placed in service? Western Australia has been badly treated in respect of broadcasting facilities as far as the national stations are concerned. 
Tenders have been called for the second transmitter for Perth. The Department was fortunate enough to obtain its requirements for 'Adelaide in connexion with a contract for the supply of certain material required at Brisbane, but separate tenders will have to be called for the Perth station. The work will be expedited as much as possible. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission informs me that it has arranged for the provision of permanent studios to replace the present temporary premises  it occupies. Sites have been acquired at Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart. An officer of the commission and the chief architect of the Department of the Interior, who recently went abroad to investigate modern studios and studio designs, have now returned and are preparing plans for up-to-date studios. I am not sure of the location of the new studio at Perth, because difficulty has arisen about the title to certain land. Personally I thought the site chosen was excellent, but in view of the legal difficulties mentioned, it is probable that another site will have to be obtained. 
.- Can the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  give the Senate any information as to when the trunk telephone line between The Dee and Queenstown along the main arterial road between Hobart and the West Coast will be taken in hand? 
Many representations have been made from time to time for this work to be done, but it cannot be justified in view of more urgent requirements in. other parts of Australia. 
Is provision being made for better broadcasting services in northern Queensland, chiefly in the Cairns district? 
Replying to the query by  Senator Cooper,  it is proposed to erect a regional broadcasting station at Cairns, but the work will not be undertaken during the present year, because money and materials are not available. The work is set down for 1939-40. 
For a number of years senators from Western Australia have tried to get a trunk line telephone from Northampton to Carnarvon and other places. I understand that tests with telegraph wires are being conducted, but in view of the disappointing results experienced at  Mr Isa,  Queensland, where iron wire was used, I am afraid that the prospect is not hopeful. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.Everything possible should be done to lessen the isolation of the people in this important locality. They should at least have satisfactory telephonic communication with Geraldton, and with Perth also. 
I believe that some investigation is being made in connexion with the Carnarvon line. I shall communicate the result to those senators from Western Australia who have made representations in this connexion. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - Northern Territory, £120,000- agreed to. 
Federal Capital Territory. 

 Proposed vote, £515,000. 
Under division 34 the sum of £189,610 is set down for architectural services, fittings and furniture, and £306,460 for engineering services. Only £10,460 is provided for "Sundry works and services ". Evidently, the architectural and engineering services contemplated are most comprehensive, for they total nearly half a million pounds. I should like some information regarding them. 
[10.11]. - These items cover a lot of detailed services. The whole of the amount of £189,610 set down for architectural services, fittings and furniture, will not be available for expenditure during the current year, as this item will require to contribute towards the general saving of £30,000 to be effected under all the items of division 34. Re-votes in respect of uncompleted works in hand at the 30th June last will absorb £83,010, whilst £75,000 will be required for the erection of cottages, the demand for which is steadily increasing. Approximately 300 applications are in hand from persons desiring cottage accommodation. The amount provided will meet only a limited portion of the existing requirements. Among the works for which provision is being made are the following: - 

<graphic href="154332193709094_46_0.jpg"></graphic>

For engineering services £306,460 is being provided. That sum includes revotes totalling £200,000 in respect of works uncompleted at the 30th June last. 
Chief among the engineering services are - 

<graphic href="154332193709094_46_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="154332193709094_46_2.jpg"></graphic>

 If there is one vote we should not cavil at in these Estimates, it is that for the further development of the Federal Capital Territory. I suppose no other city in the world is showing the return on the capital invested in its development that Canberra shows. That is a very wholesome state of affairs. I urge the Leader of the Senate to bring under the notice of the Minister for the Interior the necessity for pushing on with the construction of cottages, not only because of the present demand for them, but also because under existing conditions a good deal of the money spent in wages in the Federal Capital Territory is finding its way into Queanbeyan, nine miles away. Nothing is occurring in that town which would* account for the prosperity evidenced by the number of new buildings and shops being erected there, and for the improvement of its hotels. We can only assume that this measure of prosperity is entirely due to the fact that as Canberra does not provide the accommodation required by artisans employed in the Federal Capital Territory on developmental works, many of them are forced to reside in Queanbeyan. Where they reside, they spend their wages. I seriously urge the Leader of the Senate to suggest to his colleagues in the Cabinet the desirability of providing suitable cottage accommodation for artisans employed in the Federal Capital Territory. 
I disagree entirely with the views expressed  by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  I tlo not think that the Australian taxpayer should be asked to provide the money to build dozens of houses in Canberra. 
It appears to me from the list read out by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that the provision for the Federal Capital Territory is to be spent largely on- works and services that in other parts of Australia arc undertaken by local governing bodies, and by bodies such as workers' homes boards or other properly constituted housing authorities. Instead of money beng spent in Canberra on houses owned and built entirely by the Government, additional provision should be made for the granting of advances to those who wish to make their permanent homes in Canberra. 
Only £30,000 is being made available for. advances for the purchase of homes. In the list read out by the Leader of the Senate, provision was made for the erection of homes to cost between £2,000 and £3,000 each. 
Why should the Australian taxpayers be called upon to pay heavy taxes in order to build houses for the residents of Canberra costing £2,000 each. 
The provision of money for this purpose might be all very well from the point of view of the Leader" of the Opposition, whose party is' in favour of government ownership of .everything. As a protest against the policy ( of taxing the Australian taxpayers to build in Canberra a large number of houses, costing £2,000 each, for people who contribute nothing toward their cost, I move - 
That the vote, " Federal Capital Territory, Architectural Services, fittings and furniture £180,010," be reduced by £50,000. 
If my amendment be accepted, I am quite prepared to agree that the £50,000 bc added to the £30,000 provided for advances for the purchase of homes for which the occupiers would have to provide part of the cost. 
Amendment negatived. 
 I ask the Leader of the Government whether or not it is intended, seeing that such a large sum of money is -being set aside for the development of the Federal Capital Territory, to abandon the Molonglo settlement, and to build decent homes for those workers who arc at present residing there. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [30.24].- The answer to the honorable senator's question is in these Estimates. As new cottages become available, the weatherboard buildings  at  Molonglo will be vacated  and-  pulled down. 
 So that, in the course of time, the settlement at Molonglo will disappear? 
Proposed, vote agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment: ; report adopted. 
Bill read a. third time. 
 I asked a question to-day in regard to the attendance in this chamber of  Senator Massy-Greene.  I have been a member of the Senatefor over five years, andI think other honorable senators will agree that I am not a muck-raker andnever have been. At the same time, the matter of  Sir Walter  Massy-Greene still being a member of the Senate and not attending the meetings of this chamber, calls for really serious investigation. The Senate is certainly entitled to an explanation. During the last few weeksI have beenasked about the honorable senator's attendances ; I promised to make inquiries atthe first opportunity. I find to-day that out of 112 sittings  Senator Massy-Greene  has attended only fifteen. If he were sick we could understand his absence. 
He may have been, but at the same time the figuresare really astounding. It is not fair to the Senate or the country. If this gentleman's commercial interests prevent him from attending to his parliamentary duties, the fairest course for him to take is to resign from the Senate. He may be doing some work which we do not know about, but I think it is usual for an honorable senator to attend the majority of the sittings of the Senate. Honorable senators have visited various parts of the world with leave of absence and others, unfortunately, have been very ill, causing them to spend much of their time away from the Senate. As theSenate meets on only a few occasions during the year, and since October,1934,  Senator Massy-Greene  has been in attendance only fifteen times, it is evident that some explanation is due from him in fairness to the Senate and to the people of Australia. 
 It is with a considerable amount of reluctance that I rise to endorsethe remarks of  Senator Brown.  1 realize that the honorable senator to whom he has referred possesses outstanding ability. He was elected by hisState to give service to the people in this chamber and the people are entitled to the benefit of his ability and knowledge. I feel that the position of a senatoris a full-time job, and the least a man holding it can do is to attend the sittings of the Senate, unless prevented by ill-health or absence overseas. This honorable senator has  been away 89 sitting days without leave and eight with leave out of a total of 112 ; that sort of thing tends largely to bring this chamber into disrepute. For that reason more than any other I take exception to his continued absence without leave. Possibly the Senate itself has erred in not granting leave to him. I notice that he was absent for only eight days with leave, and I do not understand how he could be absent for 89 more without leave without ceasing to be a senator. 
Senators should be fined for non-attendance of that kind. 
-Some penalty should be imposedon a man who absents himself without leave. I hope in fairness to the taxpayers that the honorable senator concerned will either attend in future or tender his resignation. 
In this matter, on which I regret to speak, as much as the previous  speaker  does, one must keep clearly in his mind two considerations; the first is that there are a certain number of meetings of the Senate, and the second is the quality of the work that is done.  Senator SirWalter  Massy-Greene was elected, as I was, in 1931. I think that I am right in saying that he was not at that time in good health. Nevertheless, he became Assistant Treasurer of the Commonwealth, and held that position, one of extreme difficulty and great responsibility, at a most troublous time in Australia's history. He did his work in a way for which we ought to be grateful. Many of us sit here year after year and never in the whole of our careers do anything like as good work as the honorable senator did in those three years, at a time when he was in ill-health. I do not desire to go into the other side of the question, nor should it be necessary to do so. Honorable senators, should, in all fairness, weigh the value of a man's work against the number of his attendances ; that is what I do, and I say that, on a consideration of the last six years this country has good reason to be grateful for the fact that  Senator Sir Walter  Massy-Greene was a member of this Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn toa (statement by the Director of Navigation made at Darwin on the 31st ultimo to the effect that a properly planned hydrographical survey of the const of Western Australia is essential for defence and other purposes, and that there was sufficient survey work along the Western Australian coast to keep one ship of the type of H.M.A.S.  Moresby  busy for 50 years? 
What stops have the Government taken towards carrying out the necessary hydrographicalof thecoast of Western. Australia, and when will the work be continued? 
The Minister forTrade and Customs states that the information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for theInterior,  upon notice - 
Were Messrs. Garrett and Peters, of the Department of the Interior, or other officers, sent to Queensland on a mission of inquiry into the alien position? 2.If so, will their report he madeavailable to senators immediately it is received ? 
Messrs. Garrett andPeters were sent to Queensland to inquire into and report upon the alien position. 
This report will he a departmental one. It is not customary to make such reports public, but the question of making it available to senators will receive consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister for the Interior within his rights in refusing to give reasons to a senator why a certain applicant for naturalization has on several occasions been refused suchnaturalization? 
Have similar requests by a senator or member of the House of Representatives always been refused? 
Yes. 
In some cases senators and members of the House of Representatives have been advised confidentially of the reasons for refusal. 
[11.8].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is the measure under which the rates of income tax for the current financial year are imposed. 
As the Government is not making any change in the rates of tax at present in force, thebill simply re-enacts the rates which were applied in last year's assessments. I shall, therefore, confine my remarks to a brief explanation of the several schedules embodied in the bill under which the rates on the different amounts and classes of taxable income are ascertained. 
The first schedule prescribes the rate of tax payable on an income derived by an individual solely from personal exertion. In imposing the rate of tax payable by individual taxpayers, . the principle of graduating the rate is followed; that is to say, as the amount of taxable income increases, the rate of tax payable on that taxable income also increases. Therefore, the taxpayer whose taxable income is greater than his neighbour's pays not only the tax on a higher amount of income, but also at a higher rate. At the commencing point, viz., a taxable income of £.1, the rate of tax payable is 2.29d., but when the taxable income reaches £6,900, the rate of tax is 35.285d. On every £1 of taxable income in excess of £6,900, a flat rate of 68.85d. is imposed. 
The second schedule sets out the formula for arriving at the rate of tax payable by an individual whose income is derived solely from property. The principle of graduation also operates in the calculation of the rate payable under this schedule. The rate of progression is, however, much steeper than in the case of personal exertion incomes. This is shown by the fact that on a taxable income from property of, say, £3,000, the rate of tax is 35.325d., whereas on the same amount of taxable income derived from personal exertion, it is only 16.638d. The property rate is, therefore, at this point more than double the personal exertion rate. Under the formula provided in this schedule, the rate of tax commences at 2.7d., and increases in severity until upona taxable income of £3,700, the rate payable is 42.57d. Upon every £1 of taxable income in excess of £3,700, a flat rate of 81d. is charged. 
The third schedule applies in the case of the taxpayer whose total taxable income is derived partly from personal exertion and partly from property. The schedule provides that the taxpayer shall pay income tax on the separate amounts of personal exertion and property incomes at the rate applicable to his total taxable income. 
The fourth schedule relates to the averaging system, and provides that the rate of tax payable on the taxpayer's taxable income shall be the rate attributable to his average income, which is based on his income of the year ended the 30th June last, and the four preceding years. I inform honorable senators that, except in the case of the primary producers, this is the last year in which the averaging provisions will apply. 
The Royal Commission on Taxation recommended that the averaging system should be abolished except in the case of the primary producers. 
The Government adopted this recommendation, but to give the taxpayers the benefit of the reduced incomes derived during the depression years, decided that the recommendation should not be put into operation until the financial year 1938-1939. 
The fifth schedule provides for a special rate of tax to be paid in those cases where the taxable income includes a premium received in respect ofa lease. The assessment act provides that a premium received on the granting or assignment of a lease of property is taxable to the recipient, the view taken being that the premium is a. lump sum payment of rent. Owing to theprinciple of graduation which I referred to previously, honorable senators will appreciate that if a landlord receives a premium in a lump sum, he pays tax at a much higher rate on that sum, and consequently much more tax, than he would have paid had he received an equivalent amount in the shape of rent over the period of the lease. 
As a measure of relief, the assessment act provides that in the case of lease premiums, the rate of tax payable  thereon shall be the rate payable on a notional income ascertained by dividing the amount of the premium by one-half the number of years of the lease. This means that the recipient of the premium pays tax on the amount thereof in the year it is received, but at a much lower rate than he would otherwise be required to pay. Of course, if he derives any other income during the year, such other income is added to the notional income in ascertaining his rate of tax payable on his total taxable income. Honorable senators will appreciate that the scheme is somewhat involved, but in essence it is simply a modified system of averaging, For this reason, the assessment act further provides that the scheme is not to be applied in any case where the present averaging provisions already apply. Although the averaging provisions are still in operation for this year's assessment, it is necessary to include the schedule in the rates bill to meet the isolated case of the taxpayer to whom, for some "reason, the averaging provisions do not apply. 
The sixth schedule provides for the rate of tax payable by trustees in those  cases  where, under the provisions of the assessment act, the trustee of a trust estate is liable to pay tax on the whole or some part of the estate income. In such a case, the trustee pays tax in his representative capacity, and is taxable at the same rate as the individual beneficiary he represents. In many cases, however, the trustee is a trustee company, and as the bill provides for the rate of tax to be paid by companies, it is necessary to make a special provision to cover trustees, so as to ensure that the company rate will not apply when the trustee is :i company. 
The seventh schedule prescribes the rate of tax payable , bv a company, and  being  a flat rate of ls. needs no explanation. Sub-section 6 of section. 4 continues the principle which has prevailed since 1927, of imposing a minimum liability of 10s. Sub-section 1 of section 5 is so framed as to  enable  assessments to be made for subsequent financial years in those circumstances where it is necessary to- issue such assessments before the rates bill for next year is passed by Parliament. Overseas taxpayers visiting Australia and earning income here, such as theatrical and concert artists, and tourists from Australia, who desire to pay their tax before leaving, are generally the only taxpayers affected by this provision. 
I take this opportunity to reply to complaints made by  Senator Grant,  who said that notwithstanding the work of the Royal Commission on Taxation, our income tax returns are still complicated. The principal work of the commission was not to simplify returns, hut to obtain uniformity, so far as is possible, in Federal and State income tax returns. Quite a number of recommendations were made by the commission, most of which, I believe, have been passed into law by the Commonwealth, and many by the State Parliaments. While uniformity is not necessarily simplification, it is an aid to taxpayers. The income tax returns for Federal and State purposes ave now more uniform than they have ever been.  Senator Grant  is not alone in the views he holds on this subject. 
The returns are becoming more complicated each year. 
I do not rise for the purpose of offering opposition to this bill, but merely to' ask -why it is necessary. I accept unreservedly the assurance of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that no alteration of the rates of tax is proposed. I imagine that the reason for the introduction of the bill is that a measure of this kind is necessary each year. 
I admit my profound ignorance of these abstruse mathematical problems, and therefore, I ask what is meant by notional income? 
I regret that the Government has not seen fit to reduce both direct and indirect taxes. It is worthy of mention that, in spite of  n  reduction of the rates of taxes, the total revenue collected from the Australian people is increasing each year. 
If prosperity is the direct outcome of reduced taxes, why not continue the reductions? Apart from the poor taxpayer, almost every section of the community has' received some benefit from the greater prosperity which exists. I shall quote some figures from the Treasurer's own statement to show the results of the taxes imposed during the last five years - 
It will be seen that the total direct taxes, including income tax, has averaged nearly £12,000,000 a year. 
In addition to a reduction of the rate of income tax, there has been a reduction in the items subject to primage duty also. The amount received from this source in 1933-34 was £4,080,456. In the following year the yield was £4;259,210; in. 1935-36 it was £4,678,358; and in 1936-37 it was £3,833,165. For the current year primage duty is estimated to yield £4,100,000. 
The position is similar in respect of sales tax. The revenue from this source amounted to £8,695,689 in 1933-34; in the following year the . amount was £8,554,076 ; in 1935-36 it was £9,432,483, and in 1936-37 it amounted to £8,008,427. The estimate for 1937-38 is £7,700,000. 
I wish to emphasize not only that there is no reduction of income tax this, year, but also that emergency taxes imposed during the depression are estimated to yield £11,800,000 from sales tax and primage alone. That is a burden which the taxpayers of Australia ought not to be called upon to bear. I am glad that pensioners and others in the community have been assisted, but I submit that the benefits should have been more evenly distributed. 
The grants to the States are lower than they were. 
Of the amount to he granted to that State,.  £136,000  represents an advance against grants to he made two years ahead. The real grant for this year was reduced to  £439,000.  I repeat that the taxpayers should not be called upon to-day to pay emergency taxes imposed during the depression. 
SenatorCollings.  -They  do not pay unless they, have taxable incomes. 
That is not so. A man may have no taxable income and yet be called upon to pay primage duty and sales tax. I desire to see a reduction of the sales tax and primage ' duties as well as income tax, so that the taxpayers may share in the general prosperity of the community. 
Australia is paying less for defence this year out of revenue than was paid last year. It is proposed to raise a loan of  £2,500,000  in London this year, and also to utilize money from trust funds, as well as from revenue. I repeat that, in spite of the reduced rates of tax, the total yield from the taxes imposed is increasing year by year. The Government is collecting and spending more revenue than ever before in our history. The total receipts from direct and indirect taxation during the last four years have been - 

<graphic href="154332193709105_4_0.jpg"></graphic>

The estimate for  1937-38  is  £64,425,000.  The Australian people are remarkably patient to be able to bear such a huge burden of tax levied by the Commonwealth Government alone, and including about  £12,000,000  of emergency taxation. I am not at the moment taking into account the very heavy taxes imposed by the States and by local-governing bodies. I hope that next year the rates of sales tax, income tax and primage will be very substantially reduced. 
 I know that a great number of people believe that taxes should be considerably reduced. 
SenatorCollings.  -  They are the patriots. 
When I have heard that sentiment expressed, I have always replied that I could see no possible way of effecting greater reductions than have already been made. The fact that, during its term of office, this Government has remitted over  £15,500,000  of taxes seems to be forgotten. That is a wonderful achievement, and is an annual benefit to the taxpayer.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  yesterday gave us some enlightening figures regarding  per capita  expenditure on defence in Australia and Great Britain. The honorable senator said that, whereas the cost in Australia is only about  £11s.  a head of the population, in Great Britain it is probably in the vicinity of  £7.  I do not see how any substantial reductions of taxes can be effected at a time when we are compelled to undertake the essential work of building up the defences of this country. 
I am sure that that is not so. 
What I think  Senator Duncan-Hughes  wished to convey was that we should endeavour to devise a more scientific scheme to replace the present system of invalid and old-age pensions. 
What would be better than to have an equitable scheme of national insurance, even if, in its operation, everybody had to bear a share of the burden? A pension would then be every man's right because he had contributed for it. 
I think that every country does. If I were asked to name the greatest objection of taxpayers to the present system of collecting taxes, I should say, unhesitatingly, that it is the harassing investigations carried out by the department, in respect of past transactions. Some means should be devised to obviatethe necessity for such investigations which result in taxpayers being put to great trouble and expense. On almost every occasion when people have attacked me, either in private or on a public platform, in regard to taxation, their main arguments have usually boiled downto the fact that they objected to these harassing departmental investigations of a retrospective character. Of course, I know that there is another side to this matter; many people try to avoid the payment of taxes, and in the interests of taxpayers generally it is necessary that the departmental officers should have access to their records in order to see that no evasions take place. The conflict between the taxpayer and the tax gatherer is ages-old; we read that there was constant friction between the taxpayer and the" tax gatherer even in the earliest days of his- tory. As I have said, the greatest objection to the tax is not to the rate levied, but to the incidence of the tax, and to the fact that frequent demands are made for retrospective payments. In this connexion it must be remembered that only a few short years ago, practically every man and woman who had a stake in this country went through a period of great trial, during which many were ruined and many more were on the verge of ruin. To ask them to go over their transactions during that difficult period is to impose great hardship on them. If we can devise means to overcome the necessity for conducting these investigations, I feel sure that the taxpayers will be quite satisfied, because payers and nonpayers alike realize that we have a great responsibility for  the  defence of this country. 
 I do not intend to enter into a long disquisition on. the schedule of this bill; one would need to be an Einstein to understand it. Pew of us, I am sure, are sufficiently well equipped to do so. Unless there be a complete -and fundamental alteration of the system of finance in this country, I cannot see how we can make any great taxation reforms. The Leader ofthe Senate has pointed out tha t owing to remissions and rebates made each year, our income tax law is becoming more and more involved. Naturally, those who pay most in taxes, and who would have most to lose in the event of war, are the biggest squealers. It is also true that the richest taxpayers in the land are the greatest tax evaders. There is not the slightest doubt that thousands of pounds are lost annually by scientific evasion of taxes. There is a growing school of thought in the Commonwealth whose adherents contend that taxation could be simplified by its elimination. Honorable senators may laugh at that, but among those who believe that it is possible are many intelligent men who put up very sound arguments for the complete elimination, of taxation as we know it. That, of course, would be a revolutionary move which would never be made by the present reactionary government. The idea is of course, that instead of the present system of levying taxation, we should finance all governmental expenditure by the use of national credit. 
It is not unlike the system advocated by  Major Douglas;  as a. matter of fact  Major Douglas  has written several books in regard to this matter, some of which are almost as difficult to understand as the schedule to the bill now before the Senate. We must, however, not be foolish and think that those expressing these ideas are necessarily asinine. I myself believe that  Major Douglas  has a. mathematical brain, and I do not think it behoves us to sneer at him; on the contrary, we should try to understand him. I say emphatically that the application of the principles enunciated by the leaders of the school of thought to which I have referred, to the finances of this country, would bring about a greater revolution than has occurred in Italy, Germany or Russia. 
Sena tor BRO WN. - Although I am not an adherent of the Douglas Credit party, I think  Senator A.  J. McLachlan's interjection is entirely wrong. It shows the conception held by many troglodites in the community that every new financial thought is a scheme for getting something for nothing. No serious student of Douglas Credit or of economics generally would say that the application of this new idea to the business of the country will give something for nothing. It  it  absurd to think it. No seriouslyminded man would believe that you can get something for nothing merely by changing your financial system. Underlying the Douglas Credit conception there is, however, an element of truth. I believe that there can be used in this or any other country a financial system which, when once applied, will release the productive forces to the end that greater production will follow. That is the theoretical idea underlying the Douglas Credit school of thought. Its supporters believe that the application of this new thought to governmental finance will so release the powers of the people of Australia as to enable them to produce a greater income. 
I desire to be fair. I consider that the application of the Douglas Credit system to Australia would involve a revolution that the people are not prepared to accept atthe present time. At the same time, the conception behind it is such that if it could bc applied, it would undoubtedly eliminate all those intricate calculations of income and taxes and all the trouble that arises from their application to the taxpayer, and substitute a simple operation for the meeting of governmental expenditure. It would certainly not give something for nothing, because, after all, the work has to be done, goods have to be produced, and we cannot produce goods unless we work. I remember Theo Gumm, who used to lecture in the 
Sydney Domain some 25 years ago, when I first graced this country with my presence. He had a great chart above his head depicting Australia. According to him, there was to be a second coming, the gates were to be opened, and the goats separated from the sheep, on the last great day. He told the people that there would be no work when that time came. Somebody said to him: "Theo, how do you explain that? ". He replied :." Years ago we used to work sixteen hours a day ; then by the introduction of machinery the working hours were reduced to twelve; now they are down to eight, and when the last day comes, and we enter this earthly paradise, which will be the real Heaven, there will be no work at all, because everything will be worked by automatic machinery, and all you will have to do will be to touch a button ". Then a man in the crowd interjected : " But, Theo, would not touching the button be work?". Therefore, even in that earthly paradise that Theo spoke of, there would still be some work to do. because the button would have to be touched in order to set the machinery in motion. Joking aside, all financial reformers who understand what they are driving at know that it is impossible to eliminate the need for the application 'of labour to the land and to the raw materials of the country. We must have the expenditure of energy., but the idea behind the efforts of  all  these reformers is to obtain the greatest return from the expenditure of our energy. If we can expend less energy for  a  greater return, that will be good business. At the present time we are living under a financial system whereby the labour of thousands is wasted. 
The Leader of the Opposition expends his energy in a way which is very satisfactory to himself. I know of no other man in Australia, from little Tasmania to Cape York, and from Brisbane to Perth, who gets greater pleasure out of life than  Senator Collings  does. He is happy in expressing his thoughts and ideas, he lives every moment when he  is  doing so; he  is happy when he is making a speech, but lie is happiest when he is criticizing the Government. 
I wish to deal for a few moments with the bill, that is, with things as they are. I am, I hope, a monetary reformer, and  Senator Collings  30 or 40 years ago was advocating monetary and financial reform. 
It has this much to do with it, that it provides for taking currency from the people. The ideal of taxation is to take money from the people according to their ability to pay. The rich men squeal the loudest because they have to pay the  most,  but they have the ability to pay the most. One interjecter said the other day that the people of Queensland were the most highly taxed in the world, but he was absolutely wrong. Certain sections of the community in Queensland have to pay somewhat higher taxes than people in other parts do, hut they have the ability to pay it. One gentleman situated in Canberra made a trip to Queensland less than six months ago. On his return he said, " Despite the fact that many of my members are highly taxed, they are very happy indeed, because they are doing very well in Queensland, and are therefore able to meet the taxes". That is the position. If you can do better and make more, you can pay more, and the man who makes more should, be made to pay more. Unfortunately, this Government has taken such action that it has relieved the burden on the rich of the community, and put it upon the poorer section. Labour's little blue book, which has been so often quoted here, says on page 14 that the amount raised by taxation by the Lyons Government in 1935-36 was the highest ever collected by any Commonwealth Government. I should like to ask  Senator Sir George  Pearce whether that statement is right or wrong. The honorable senator has said that in the little blue book there are many mistakes, and I desire to know whether that is one of them. I know that  Senator E.  B. Johnston says that this is true. 
-The blue book -also says that the amount of taxes per head was the highest ever inflicted upon the people. It then states, and I am sure  Senator E.  B. Johnston will not agree with this, that the remissions made largely benefited taxpayers in receipt of high incomes. 
The increased taxation imposed by the Government bore most heavily on the working man.  Senator E.  B. Johnston showed how direct taxation had decreased, and indirect taxation had increased, 'or so I gathered from his figures. 
The increase of the receipts from indirect taxation was from £36,000,000 in 1931-32 to approximately £51,000,000 in 1936-37 - the amount for 1936-37 being only estimated at the time this book was printed. That shows an increase of practically £15,000,000 in indirect taxes, which are mainly paid by working men and women. According to the same book, in 1936-37 - and again this is only an approximate figure - there was a decrease in income tax of over £5.000,000. That meant a decrease in the burden of direct taxation. I put it to the rich senators in this chamber - and most of those on the other side are fairly rich - Is it fair that we should take the burden off those best able to bear it and place it upon the men and women who are receiving a mere pittance? 
The basic wage in Queensland is £3 18s. a week. The man on the basic wage pays so much a week for food, and the man who receives £100 or £200 a week does not eat much more than the worker does, so that, relatively, he is paying practically the same amount through indirect taxation as the worker is. 
Yes, but bis direct taxation has been reduced, whilst the indirect taxation, which bears most heavily on the worker, has been increased. That is the burden of our argument. 
According to the bine book, the indirect taxation per head was £5 12s. lOd. in 1931-32, and £7 14s. Id. in 1935-36. The direct taxation per head was £2 12s. 6d. in 1931-32, and £1- 14s. 4d. in 1935-36. In spite of that decrease, the rich senators and other rich members of the community squeal. So far as I can see, a tory government, once it gains power, invariably seeks to lift the taxes from the rich and place them on the poor, whilst Labour governments try ,to the best, of their ability to lift taxes from the worker and place them upon those shoulders which are broad enough to bear them. 
I do not think so. It has been repeatedly stated by antiLabour members in this chamber that Queensland is the most heavily taxed community in Australia, but the figures show that Queensland has the lowest percentage of unemployment; that is owing to the methods that have been adopted by the Queensland Government, limited and confined as it has been by the present financial system. That is an irrefutable argument. To the best of its ability, the Queensland Labour Government has exercised its powers of taxation in such a way as to improve the general conditions of the people and increase employment, lt has succeeded, even though it is limited by the present financial system. 
I am not so foolish as to make such an assertion. Neither is the present relative prosperity of Australia due to the Lyons Government. If we say that prosperity is entirely due to governmental effort, then conversely depressions are also entirely due to governments. Such an argument would be wrong. I was making a com parison between the years 1931-32 and 1935-36, and showed that, while there had been a decrease of  18s.  2d.  per capita  in direct taxation, -indirect taxation had increased by £2 ls. 3d., so that the total increase of taxation was £1 3s. Id.  per capita.  On page 15 of Labour's election blue book there appears an interesting statement by a good tory ex-Minister,  Sir Henry  Gullett. When criticizing the budget introduced by  Dr. Earle  Page in 1926-27,  Sir Henry  Gullett - he was then  Mr. Gullett  - said - 
The Treasurer's claim that he has reduced taxation since he has been in office is one of the most fantastic ever made in Parliament. He merely shifted the load on income from the top to the bottom. 
That is just what this Government ha9 been doing - shifting the tax load on to the shoulders of those least able to bear it. . 
I was just about to say that I knew that some Government supporters would invite me to examine the Federal and State income tax returns to see that the working classes paid no taxes, although I am pointing out that, as a result of legislation passed by tory Commonwealth governments, the workers are actually heavily taxed indirectly.  Mr. J.  White, of the New South Wales Taxpayers Association, recently computed that a married man on the basic wage paid taxes per annum amounting to £17 6s. 10d., made up as follows : - 

<graphic href="154332193709105_8_2.jpg"></graphic>

In the face of these figures, how can any one say that the workers are not being taxed heavily? 
I know that, and I am showing that, in various forms of indirect taxation, the working classes are shouldering a heavy burden. In fairness to the Douglas Credit Association, I should say that the last figures which I have cited appeared in the  New Bra,  the official organ of that body. I hope that soon there will he in power in the Commonwealth a different Government, which will eliminate this involved system of taxation and place the burden, on the shoulders of those best able to bear it. 
My intention is not to discuss the whole field of taxation - that would not be permissible at this stage - but to confine my remarks to the incidence of income tax.  Senator Brown's  remarks under this head are not in accordance with the facts. We have always had, on the one hand, demands for a reduction of taxes, and, on the other, requests for expenditure on various forms of social legislation which render difficult, if not impossible, a reduction of existing taxes. Whenever people approach me on the subject of tax reductions, I invite them to mention some of the services rendered by the Commonwealth with which they could dispense, and 'remind them that if these demands were not so insistent the Government might be able to ease the tax burden. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  this morning emphasized the Government's difficulty in this respect. Taking it by and large, taxes are simply collections of national income to be used for the benefit of the people, and, provided the incidence is fair, no reasonable people can complain. On page 27 of the budget-papers there appears a table giving, in detail, statistical information relating to the federal income tax, which, in my opinion, proves conclusively that income tax is collected from the people best able to pay it. It shows that 162,295 persons with a taxable income of £200 or under in 1935-36 paid. £209,211. or 2.6 per cent, of the total income tax collected. Persons with the taxable income of £201 to £500 numbered 55.280. They paid £364,269, or 4.6 per cent, of the total income tax. Those with incomes of £501 to £1,000 a year numbered 27,483, and they paid £611,S67, or 7.7 per cent, of the total. Taxpayers with incomes of over £1,000 a year numbered 19,124, and they paid £3,831,543, or 48.1 per cent, of the total income tax collected. Companies, num bering 9,101, paid income tax amounting to £2,944,527, or 36.9 per cent, of the total. 

 Senator E. B. Johnston complained that this bill made no provision for further reductions of taxation, and endeavoured to justify his grievance by pointing out that, although there had been reductions of various forms of taxes since the Lyons Government came into office, the total amount collected in 1935-36 was much higher than in former years. I do not think there is anything wrong with that. Obviously, the reduction of the various forms of taxes has stimulated private enterprise, and the taxes are now being collected from a larger number of people. I regret that the circumstances do not permit of a reduction of the income tax this year, but 1 consider income tax is the most equitable of all forms .of taxation, and my only regret is that my own assessment is not higher than it is. 
It is not my intention to enter into a discussion as to whether or not the rate of income tax should he reduced. My chief concern is indirect taxation. This will be the first time for many years that I shall have the pleasure of joining the happy band of income taxpayers, including the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator Brown.  Hitherto, I have been among those unfortunates with little or no income upon which the Government could levy a tax. Recently, I emphasized the apparent injustice inflicted upon primary producers by the method of assessment, and pointed out that a taxpayer with an income of £500 a year from personal exertion, paid income tax of £6 7s. 9d., or for the three years, £19 3s. 2d. ; whereas a primary producer who had no income for two years, and in the third year earned £1,500, paid under the averaging system £29 7s. 6d., or £10 more than a taxpayer who has a regular annual income derived from personal exertion. If I understood the Leader of the Senate aright, he stated, when moving the second reading of this bill, that, in the case of primary producers, the average income for four years would be considered when assessing the tax to he paid. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [12.14]; -  in reply  - I must confess that I am surprised at the somewhat querulous tone adopted by  Senator E.  B. Johnston.  His  obvious intention was to make it appear that the Government has not given relief to taxpayers. 
Western Australia Drinks as. 6d. a Head More. 
Perth, Thursday. 
Alcoholic liquorscost Western Australia £2.428,996 in the year ended the 30th Junean increase of £110,130 on the total for the previous year, according to the Government Statist. Expenditure represents £711s. 9d. a head, an increase of 3s. 6d. a head. 
To every person in Western Australia who has an interest in hotels and breweries, that £110,130 means increased income. Increased production and consumption of alcoholic liquors means more grist to the mills of those who have money invested in hotels and breweries. Notwithstanding this, we hear these complaints, these grumblings, because certain persons have to pay more income tax. The honorable senator referred grudgingly to the reductions already made, and complained because he is paying more income tax. Of course he is paying more. But is he not sharing in the benefits of the increased production? Has not his income increased in consequence of greater production? Instead of the Government collecting £15,500,000 in income tax as it was doing some time ago, it is collecting only £9,000,000, and taxpayers should be gratified to find that they are not being asked to provide the higher amount. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill is to appropriate £1,000,000 for postal works. As the Appropriation (Works and Buildings) Bill includes £2,250,000 for postal works for the current year, this measure may be regarded as complementary. The Government therefore proposes to make £3,250,000 available this year for postal works, to be provided from two sources - £2,250,000 from revenue of the current year by means of Appropriation (Works and Buildings) Bill. £1,000,000 from the excess receipts of last year by means of this Post Office Works Bill. 
The sums provided during recent years for postal works indicate the expansion of the equipment necessary in that department and also are an indication of the increasing prosperity of the community. The provision has been - 

<graphic href="154332193709105_11_3.jpg"></graphic>

This bill, in effect, supplements the sum already voted for the works programme. 
As I was occupying the Chair during the committee stages of the Appropriation (Works and Buildings) Bill I was precluded from obtaining  information  concerning certain postal works from the Postmaster-General   (Senator A. j.  McLachlan).  As I may be similarly precluded when this measure is in committee I take this opportunity to ascertain the intention of the department in connexion with postal buildings on Eyre Peninsula, South Australia. For some years there has been an agitation at Ceduna near Port Thevenard, the most westerly port on the South Australian coast, for a new post office. Ceduna is in a thriving district, and has an increasing population, and the present post office is quite inadequate. Will the Minister state whether the department intend to erect a new post office at that centre? There has also been a strong agitation for a postmaster's residence at Minnipa, also on Eyre Peninsula, and I should like the Minister to state whether provision has been made in this year's Works Estimates for such a. building? 
Will the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  state who is carrying out the administrative work of the Director of Post and Telegraphs while that officer is abroad? I offer no criticizm  concerning his absence, because I recognize that it is essential that such an able administrator should have opportunity to become acquainted with the latest practice in other countries. I should, however, like to know who is carrying out his duties. 
By way of interjection yesterday I asked the Postmaster-General (Sena to  r  A. j.  McLachlan)  what was being done in connexion with a ' direct main trunk telephone service between Hobart and the west coast which has been requested by all Tasmanian members in this Parliament. A main arterial road now connects the principal towns on the West Coast with Hobart, hut between those points the telephone lines follow a most  circuitious  route via the North West Coast. The proposed telephone line would follow a main arterial road on which accidents frequently occur, because of heavy falls of snow and severe frosts making the surface slippery. Because of inability to communicate by telephone with either Hobart or other towns, the results of some of those accidents have been more serious than would otherwise have been the case. It is true that the hydro-electric station at Tarraleah has its own telephonic communication with Hobart, but that is not for public use. Surely  the  Postmaster-General's Department, with its huge surplus, should have an official line, especially as it would be a paying proposition for the department from the start. 
I think that it ha.' already been proved that the line would pay. In this connexion I refer the PostmasterGeneral to the satisfactory financial position of the Straits telephone line which now connects' Tasmania- with the mainland. Officials of the department estimated that that line would be run  (it a loss for many years. Similarly i heir estimate of revenue in respect of the line .to which I have referred may me much astray. Experience has proved that when facilities are provided they are availed of. They cannot be used if they do not exist. Yesterday, I had to wait about one and a half hours before I could' communicate with Tasmania .by telephone. I mention that delay, not by way of complaint, but in order to show how heavy is the traffic on the line. The country through which the West Coast line would pass includes the great scenic district in the vicinity of Lake St. Clair, no portion of which is at present connected with the telephone service. . 1 point out, moreover, that the district had direct telephonic communication with Hobart about twenty years ago. 
I do not know. Probably the cost of maintaining it in such difficult country was too great in the days when there was no road; also there was not the same development as there is to-day. It cannot be said that the agitation for the line comes from any one section of the Tasmanian people. The Postmaster-General will admit that he has been bombarded by all sections of the people in Tasmania with requests on this subject. 
I hope that action will be taken to increase the number of automatic telephone exchanges in Tasmania. In this connexion I especially urge that action be taken to convert to the automatic system the exchange at Ferntree. The business now transacted there may be not quite sufficient to justify a continuous manual exchange, but an automatic exchange, which would be continuous, would be of great value to the people whom it would serve. 
Yesterday, when we were asked to vote money for various works, the locations of the proposed undertakings were given. We are now asked to place  £1,000,000  in a trust fund, without knowing how the money will be used. That appears to be in the nature of asking us to sign a blank cheque. Can the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J.  McLachlan) say whether the works which will be undertaken will be subject to inquiry by the Public Works Committee? 
 I suggest, for the consideration of the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J.  McLachlan), that better paper be used for telegraph forms. The quality of the paper now in use is far from satisfactory, and persons using the forms find their nibs stick and splutter - and that remark applies not only to the nibs supplied by the post office authorities. 
Another matter which may appear at first sight to be of minor importance, but really is not, is the artistic quality of the postage stamps produced in Australia. Throughout the world the numbers of people who are interested in collecting postage stamps is increasing. It is, therefore, most desirable that Australian stamps should be artistic, so that they will create a good impresson in other countries. In the nature of things, stamps are among our exports. It may not be generally recognized that stamps are the medium by which other peoples form their impressions of our art standards. I am afraid that most Australian stamps must give to the people of other countries a bad impression of the general level of art in this country. Last year, for instance, a stamp was issued in connexion with the centenary of South Australia. It depicted a scene in  1837  when Colonel Light occupied a little hut on North-terrace, Adelaide, and another scene showing King William-street and the General Post Office in  1937.  A friend with sharper eyes than mine told me that the street scene showed a man riding a bicycle along the street in the wrong direction. The stamp also contained a representation of the old gum tree at Glenelg, and on top of that - most inappropriately, in my opinion - was a bunch of oranges and a sheaf of wheat. The Premier of South Australia, who stated that he thought that it was not a bad effort, admitted that he had ta.ken steps to have a picture of a ram's head removed before the stamp was printed. In passing, I point out that it is not necessary for a stamp to show such a variety of things in order to be artistic. Indeed, there is a great deal to be said for simplicity in art, as well as in other  things. My point is that it is highly desirable that we should send to other countries stamps which will give a good impression of the aesthetic standards of Australia. I understand that the department proposes to issue a stamp containing a representation of the koala bear. It would be a pity if the stamp were to contain a poor picture of an animal which is regarded by the people of the whole country as being particularly interesting. In my opinion, the best stamp which Australia has produced is that which is known as the " ram " stamp issued in connexion with the MacArthur centenary. That, of course, is a matter of personal opinion, but it is generally agreed that our stamps are poor, and ought to be improved. I trust that something will be done in that direction. The stamps issued in Australia soon after the coronation of King George VI. and Queen Elizabeth, although not regarded as coronation stamps, were, in my opinion, better than the New Zealand coronation stamp, but they were not of high quality. The coronation stamps for the whole of the Crown colonies of the Empire were identical except for the difference in the names of the colonies, and they were printed in London. I regarded them all as first class, and far superior to ours. Surely, a dominion should have a stamp at least equal to that of a small Crown colony. As I have said, this may be regarded by some as a matter of minor importance, but the relation of poor stamps to the imagined standard of art in Australia should not be lost sight of. 
On pages 10 and 11 of the budget-papers for 1937-38, the consolidated revenue fund of the Commonwealth is set out. On the expenditure side, the surpluses of recent years are shown. The statement shows a surplus of £1,276,558 for. 1936-37, and indicates how that amount is to be appropriated. Some of it is to be appropriated under various acts for invalid and old-age pensions. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

.  - in reply  - Perhaps delay will be avoided if, at this stage, I reply to some of the points raised by honorable senators. Dealing first with telegram forms mentioned bySenatorDuncan-Hughes I rather agree with his statement that theclass of paper on which they are printed is inferior. When telegram forms were made into blocks a much better writing surface was provided, but unfortunately, when blocks were extensively used itwas found by the department that they disappeared with rather alarming regularity. I agree with the honorable senator that; some steps might well be taken to improve the quality of telegram forms. Recently, forms of more ornate character, for the sending of greetings, have been introduced ; they are printed on paper of much superior quality. The honorable senator also spoke of the lack of artistry in the stamps issued by the department. All I can say in regard to this is that philatelic journals, which profess to be the mouthpieces of stamp collectors in the Commonwealth and in other countries, have written in high compliment of the artistic designs ofthe Commonwealth stamps. The departmental officersare constantly endeavouring to secure the best possible designs; and the printing is carried out by an expert staff in the note-printing branch of the Commonwealth Bank. I draw the attention of honorable senators to the excellent designs of the lyre bird, kookaburra, and jubilee stamps which have been very favorably commented on by philatelists all over the world. 
Because we were unable to get satisfactory photographs for reproduction. It is hoped that before his return to Australia, the Director of Postal Services will be able to secure suitable photographs of Their Majesties, in their coronation robes. 
That, is one reason why the department is making special efforts to secure suitable photographs. 
-I spent a good deal of time considering the design For the South Australian stamp. I invited the Acting Premier of South Australia  (Sir George Ritchie),  and various other authorities, to examine a design which had been accepted as suitable to mark the historic occasion of the centenary of South Australia. The  piece de resistance,  sofar as I was concerned, was the ram's head. "When the design was first submitted to me it was found that the head of a long-wooiled ram had been used. I could not accept that, because I knew that the economy of South Australia has been largely based on the merino sheep. The Director of Postal Services then communicated with either the Premier's Department or the UnderSecretary for South Australia, who, unfortunately, brought the matter under the notice of the Prime Minister. One has to bow his head to the wishes of the Prime Minister and the Premier of a State. I was rather amazed that these two should have objected to the inclusion of a ram's head in the design, but they did so, and the stamp was issued in the form to which the honorable senator has referred. With regard "to the koala stamp, many designs were submitted which were examined by the. experts of the department, who claim that the one accepted is much superior to any others submitted. Although the koala design is a very good one, it may not reproduce satisfactorily in print I assure honorable senators that the experts of the department are doing everything possible to see that the artistic quality of the stamps issued in Australia is at. least up to world standard. 
That is so. During the debate, one honorable senator was good enough to hand me a sample of a South Australian duty stamp. I shall not, however, express an opinion of the work of the artists in my own State ; I content myself by saying that, in my opinion, the designs of the postage stamps compare, at least, favorably with this one. 
If  Senator Leckie  will turn to clause 4 of the bill, he will sec the various directions in which moneys standing to the credit of the Post Office trust account may be applied. The department i.-. limited in the expenditure of that money in exactly the same way as it is in connexion with moneys provided under the works estimates which were passed by the Senate last night. The sum of £1,000,000 to which he referred is provided out of the surplus of last year. I f the department is not aware until late in the year what amount of money will be made available to it, it is considerably hampered in its operations, particularly at a time like this, when it is not possible to secure requirements as quickly as one would like. When the amount of £1,000,000 was ear-marked out of the surplus of last year, I knew that that amount of money, at least, would be made available in addition to the ordinary votes of the department. 

 Senator Badman referred to the post office at Ceduna; that has been provided for in the Estimates. Provision hasalso been made in this year's Estimates for the post office at Minnipa. 

 Senator Grant brought to my notice the post office at Ferntree. I shall look into the matter and see what can be done in regard to it.With regard to the Hobart-Queenstown line, the most cheering news I have had is the assurance of the honorable senator that it would not mean any loss to the department. If it can even nearly approach the results he has predicted, I shall 3ee that the work is undertaken. 
The project will be investigated on the honorable senator's pressing request.  Senator Foll  asked who is discharging the duties of the Director of Postal Services during his absence abroad. The divisional heads of the department have had direct access to me ever since the Director left Australia. Contracts are dealt with by a committee of departmental heads. The Director is kept advised by air mail of all the activities of the department and, in addition, J. have hud frequent conversations with, him by telephone. "While  ti  broad, he has been engaged on governmental business of most vital importance to the external communications of Australia and the Empire. Eis work is now complete and it is hoped that he will be sailing for Australia -almost immediately. I can assure honorable senators that, while his absence has made my duties more onerous during the last three months, I have kept in constant touch with him. I think it right to make this explanation, because there seems to have been some misunderstanding o.t his absence. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Payment to trust account). 
 This clause provides that, "there shall be payable out. of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which  i3  hereby appropriated accordingly, to the credit of the post office works trust account, the sum of ?1,000,000." I should like some information from the Postmaster-General on this matter. I learn from the budget-papers that the surplus for 1936-37 was ?1,276,558, but by Act No. 50 of 1936, that money was appropriated to old-age pensions. On the other side appears " excess receipts for 1936-37, ?1,276,558. " Is it only a coincidence that the amounts are the same? Apparently the ?.1,000,000 proposed to be allotted to the credit of the post office trust account is to come from that sum, but the money cannot be used for two purposes. If it is appropriated to oldage pensions, how can it be allotted to the purposes of the Postal Department? 
I am not familiar with the practices of the Treasury, but I understand that, when there are excess receipts, real or anticipated, the Treasurer, in order to retain the money for the Commonwealth, proceeds to place it in a trust account, 'and it is usually allocated to old-age pensions, following, I understand, the Treasury practice because the hurden of the old-age pensions upon the revenues of the country each year is known. To all intents and purposes, the provision made in this bill is to enable an exchange to be brought about; in effect, the money is removed now from that category, and placed to the credit of the post office works trust account. The honorable senator will see what happens if he reads the clause carefully. It provides " there shall be payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is hereby appropriated accordingly, to the credit of the post office works trust account the sum of ?1,000,000." The previous clause establishes that trust account. Prior to this, no such account was in existence in the Treasury. The account is now created, this amount is appropriated to it from the surplus of last year, and then it is allocated to the purposes of the post office. This may appear to the honorable senator a rather devious way of doing things. 
I agree, but the necessity arises out of certain constitutional provisions. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed .to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The necessity for this measure arises from the fact that in 1916 the Honorable W. L. Baillieu, and Messrs. E. L. Baillieu, A. S. Baillieu, C. Baillieu, N. Baillieu and M. H. L. Baillieu joined in making a donation to the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Fund established under the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Fund Act 1916. The donation consisted of  debentures of a face value of £20,000 and a cash amount of £5,000. By the act of 1.916 the fund, to which the donation had been paid, was vested in trustees named in the act. The trustees were charged with the duties of  (a)  allocating to the various State war councils such sums or property out of the fund as the trustees from time to time determined ;  (b)  investing such part of the fund as was not immediately required for allocation to State war councils; and (c) selling or otherwise dealing with property forming part of the fund. The State war councils held any moneys allocated to them as aforesaid upon trust to apply them for such purposes (being purposes for the assistance and benefit of Australian soldiers and their dependants) as the councils in their discretion thought fit. 
The act of 1916 was repealed by the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Act 1917, and by section 16 of the latter act " all real and personal property, securities and funds " vested in the abovementioned trustees were vested in the Repatriation Commission constituted by the new act, subject to the same trusts as those upon which the trustees had held the property. By an amending act of 1918 the property and funds tb.er.eto- for rested in the commission became vested in the Minister, still subject to the original trusts. In 1920 the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Act 1917- J8 was repealed. A new Repatriation Commission was set up and the property and funds previously held by the Minister were vested in the commission, subject to the trusts upon which they had been held by him. The present position therefore is that the balance remaining in the fund (including the gift made by Messrs. Baillieu in 1916) is vested in the commission subject to the trusts declared by the act of 1916. By reason of the discontinuance of State war councils it has become necessary to make statutory provision for the variation of the original trusts in order that the money may be appropriately applied- for the benefit of returned soldiers and their dependants. 
The Government, after consultation with the donors, has decided that the trusts expressed in this bill provide the most suitable and advantageous use to which the donation may be put. In 1918 the donation was, with the approval of the Governor-General in Council and the concurrence of the donors, applied to the purchase of a hostel at Brighton, Victoria, for totally and permanently incapacitated soldiers. This hostel was known as the Anzac Hostel, and was utilized in accordance with this decision. In 1927 a part of the land attached to the Anzac Hostel was sold for £19,962. The sum was invested and has earned interest to the amount of £10,507. The last valuation of the hostel and remaining land, together with improvements, was £36,689. "Whether this amount will actually be realized when the property is sold will depend largely upon the extent to which the building depreciates in value. When the purposes of the Anzac Hostel have been served the hostel will be sold, and the proceeds applied to the carrying out of the trusts specified in this bill. It is proposed first to use the income of such moneys as are at present available or which may become available from the sale of the Anzac Hostel when its purposes have been served, in the post primary school education and maintenance of children of deceased or incapacitated members of the forces. It is expected that all the children entitled to benefitunder this proposal will have received the advantages thereof at the expiration of some fifteen years. As capital amounts become available, either because the necessity for provision of education and maintenance of children as above-mentioned has ceased, or by reason of the sale of the Anzac Hostel, those amounts will be applied in  establishing  and maintaining university scholarships for the purpose of conducting post graduate research in medicine, law, commerce, economics, architecture, or any of those subjects. The lineal descendants of deceased, blinded or permanently and totally incapacitated members of the forces are to have preference in the allotment of these scholarships. The universities of Australia will receive these moneys in the following proportions : - Sydney and Melbourne, 25 per cent, each; Brisbane and Adelaide, 15 per cent, each; Perth, 12 per cent.; and Hobart, 8 per cent. That is the allocation recently agreed upon in connexion with the Commonwealth grant of £30,000 for research. I commend the hill to the Senate. It is really an effort, and I think an effective one, to obviate the possible failure of the trusts upon which the money was ' given. If resort were had to the courts, the donors being alive, I think they would have given effect to the provisions of this measure on the equitable principles which provide, in the event of the failure of the trust, for giving effect, as nearly as possible, to the wishes of the donors. 
The donors have approved of it entirely. 
[2.45]. - I wish to avail myslf of this opportunity to pay a tribute to the late  Mr. W.  L. Baillieu, the man who originated this fund. I well remember, when incapacitated Australian soldiers were returning, an interview which he had with me. He said that he and his brother desired to show, in some practical way, their appreciation of what members of the Australian Imperial Force had done for Australia. He added th at they thought the gift which they intended to make should be something that would mean a real sacrifice; something, the loss of which they would feel.. He then told me that they had decided to set aside this sum of money. At that time the Government was considering the establishment of a repatriation fund for the benefit of returned soldiers; but as we had not had experience of a great war no one could foresee the magnitude of the obligation. It was thought at first that a fund established by the Government, and to which the people would make voluntary contributions, would meet all requirements. Later we found that our provision would have to be on a very much larger scale. I thought it fitting that I should tell the Senate how this fund originated. The gift was entirely spontaneous ; it was the outcome of a patriotic desire to show appreciation of what members of the Australian Imperial Force had done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
I, with other honorable senators, appreciate the spirit in which this gift was made as a tribute to the members of the Australian Imperial Force; but if the information is available I should like to know the basis of distribution to the various State universities. I find that 12 per cent. is to be allocated to the University of Western Australia. It is well known that, in proportion to population, the number of enlistments for the Australian Imperial Force in Western Australia was higher than in any other State, and there is no doubt that the proportion of the disabilities and disablements was also very great. 
The fund has been distributed on the same basis as that adopted for the allocation, in 1936-37, of the grant of £30,000 to universities for research. I understand that this arrangement was agreed to by representatives of the various universities at a conference. 
SenatorAllan MacDonald. - Without regard to the number of enlistments? 
I admit that the basis of distribution may not quite meet the point raised by the honorable senator. The disablements among men who had enlisted in Western Australia may be, as the honorable senator has suggested, higher in proportion to population than in other States, but finality had to be reached in order to clarify the position. Therefore the basis for the distribution of the Commonwealth grant to universities for research purposes was adopted. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I rise on a matter of privilege and intend to conclude my remarks with a motion. Since the last sitting day something has occurred which, I feel, is of paramount importance to every member of the Senate. Therefore, I ask honorable senators to pay particular attention, in a non-party spirit, to what I shall say. I also ask very earnestly and sincerely for their unanimous support of the motion. 
As an outcome of certain happenings, perhaps, in the Senate and also in the House of Representatives. « Cabinet Minister occupying an important position - the Attorney General - on Friday even.ing last issued to the press and to the nation a statement in which he lays down t1 Ls very important dictum - 
Where an offensive statement was made, and, upon challenge, waa not withdrawn, no parliamentary privilege should attach either to the making of the statement in Parliament or its publication in the press. 
Although that statement was made but a few days ago, it has called forth from all important sections of the Australian press a storm of protest which probably is unprecedented in the history of this country. I invite honorable senators to look back over the pages of history, and consider how dearly has this freedom of Parliament been won. I have a personal knowledge of the political history of the last half century, and I remember very clearly some important phases of the struggle for the freedom of Parliament and the exercise of constitutional methods which have, for so long, been associated with the British Empire, of which Australia is a part. The history of British Parliamentary institutions, which ensures to members the privilege of free speech within the Parliament, is of early origin. It was judicially recognised as far back as 1397 by Henry IV., and because of several conflicts with the Crown it has, on several occasions been confirmed by statute. The first of these, was. the outcome of a prosecution of  Mr. Strode,  a member of the House of Commons, in thu reign of Henry VIII. That act lays down the right of members of Parliament to freedom of speech. The Bill of Bights reaffirmed this privilege and declared that - 
The freedom of speech and debates in Parliament ought not to be impeached or questioned in any court or place out. nf Parliament. 
The Attorney General of this Government, in his statement to the press during the week-end, goes back over the centuries and proposes to destroy a right which even the people of those times believed to be necessary in the interests of an unfettered Parliament. In the famous case  Stockdale  v.  Mansard,  Lord Denman, Chief Justice, said - 
Privilege, that is, immunities and safeguards, ure necessary for the protection of the House of Commons in the exercise of its high functions. AH the subjects of the realm have derived, are deriving, and I trust will continue to derive the greatest benefits from the exercise of these functions. All persons ought to he very tender in preserving to the House all privileges which may be necessary for their exercise, and to place the most implicit confidence in their representatives as to the due exercise of those privileges. 
Learned writers on constitution matters are careful to note that Parliamentary privilege does not imply complete licence of expression in the House, but they are equally insistent that Parliament itself should bo the sole judge of what is or is not permissible. 
Any  Senator complaining  to the Senate of a statement in a newspaper as a breach of privilege, shall produce a copy of the paper con- taining the statement in question, and be prepared to give the name of the printer or publisher, . . . 
I do not wish to baulk discussion, but I  feel that in the circumstances, the standing order should be complied with 
Shall I quote from the newspaper- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  - Is the honorable gentleman speaking to the point of order? 
Y.cs; I am not complaining about the action of the Leader of the Senate, but I have not yet read the whole of the newspaper report. 
Does the Leader of the Senate deny that it was made by the Attorney-General, or that it was published in practically every newspaper in the country? 
Does the Leader of the Senate deny my right to speak on the question of privilege? 
Make no mistake about it, I shall produce a copy of the newspaper, if not now, at some other time. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT.- I take it that the Leader of the. Opposition is directing attention to a statement appearing in the press, and upon which he raises the question of privilege. 
The statement was made to the press, subsequent to the adjournment of the House of Representatives on Friday last. . 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - I do not think it .is necessary for the Leader  of the Opposition to produce the newspaper in question. The statement of which he complains was not made by a newspaper but was made by some one else, and published in the press. 
That is not what the Leader of the Senate is after. He wants to cover up the tracks of his ministerial comrade. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - Order ! 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is the Leader of the Opposition now in a position to comply with the Standing Order? 
Yes; I produce a copy of the Melbourne  Age  dated the 11th September, 1937, containing the statement made by the Attorney-General, upon which I have raised this question of privilege. The  Age  is printed and published by Quinton Thomas Bone, of 34 Mimosa-road, Carnegie, for David Syme and Co., at the  Age  Office, Collinsstreet, Melbourne. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - Th, honorable senator may proceed. 
Not being so well informed on Senate procedure as is the Leader of the Senate, I probably yielded to his wish for complete compliance with the Standing Orders when I need not have done so, because I hold in my hand a printed extract from the newspaper in question and I consider that I would have been quite in order if I had submitted it to the Senate. As a matter of fact I quoted from it although, on the spur of the moment, I was not able to give the name of the printer and publisher. However, having satisfied the Leader of the Senate on that point I shall proceed. 
I was saying that learned writers on constitutional matters have over and over again stressed the view that Parliament itself should be the sole judge of what is or is not permissible in the House. This is only right when one considers that the conception of parliamentary institutions as the supreme court of the land is a very old one. Neither parliament nor its members - and may I add neither the Senate nor any of its members - should be responsible to the courts which it creates and supports, for anything which occurs within its walls. And if Parliament is supreme in these matters, if it is the judge of what is permissible or not permissible, under its Standing Orders, how can it be argued that members should be subject to outside authority? It is unfortunate that in some cases individuals suffer unjustly from what is said under cover of parliamentary privilege; but that is unavoidable, both from the viewpoint of expediency and general justice. Parliament exists for the preservation and enforcements of rights, and when any individuals or body of individuals are injured by some abuse they have the right to have the matter discussed by their representatives in the Councils of the State. If these abuses were discussed in the ordinary courts to the damage of the reputation of some persons there would be no redress. Can we say that the dignity and functions of Parliament, which is concerned with the amendment of abuses and tie redress of injuries, is not great enough to warrant the extension of the same privileges as are available to every member, counsel and 'witness in the ordinary courts of the land? Of course, the discussion of an' abuse should proceed without abuse of the discussion - but Parliament has ample powers to- see to that. Let us recall some of those happenings which may not be actually within our knowledge as participants, but are known to us as readers of constitutional history and constitutional government. What is the history of our parliamentary institutions? Parliament as we know it today has not always existed. Parliaments were not always the institutions with which we are so intimately acquainted to-day. History records the long struggle for the democratisation of Parliament, a considerable portion of which is within the knowledge of honorable senators. A long and bitter struggle was waged by Parliament against the power of kings who could dissolve Parliament or do anything .they wished with it; but that struggle ended in a victory for the common people. There was a long struggle, in which my parents participated, for liberty of conscience for members of Parliament, and that is now a statutory right. The bitterness engendered in the struggle, which I still remember, has not been forgotten, and the rights for which the people then fought are more or less commonplace today. Any member of either branch of this legislature may now decline to take the oath; if he has a conscientious objection to so doing he may make an affirmation. Although I was only a child at the time I remember the bitter struggle which occurred in Great Britain for that privilege. Many of us recall the struggle for the payment of members of Parliament, a reform which gave persons such as those who now constitute the Opposition in this chamber, the opportunity to become members of the legislature. In the early days a poor man could not become a member of Parliament; and there is no need for me to elaborate that point. I am not anxious to occupy time unnecessarily, but I honestly believe that if I am permitted to state my case clearly the Senate will carry the motion with which I propose to conclude my speech. It is only in recent years that parliamentary allowances have been paid after a dissolution of Parliament. Previously such allowances ceased immediately Parliament was dissolved, but to-day they continue to be paid until polling day. These reforms, some of them important and others of less importance, all had the same definite objective of permitting the humblest citizen of the land to aspire to become a member of Parliament if he so desires, and to ensure that wealth should not be an advantage, or the lack of it a bar sinister, to any individual who desires to become a representative of the people in the legislature. The statement of the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  was not a hasty and illconsidered outburst on which he might be adjudged guilty on Saturday, and, realizing his mistake, withdraw it on Tuesday, for he said - " For years I have been recognizing that something of this kind must be done." "With all the honesty and sincerity of convic- tion I can command, I suggest that no honorable senator disagrees with me when I say that, regardless of our party differences, we are all jealous of our democratic institutions, and wish to safeguard the methods of British parliamentary institutions. In view of the position of world affairs, the need to-day is probably greater than it has eve* been for those members who have genuine respect for British constitutional methods, to ensure that anything we do individually or collectively shall not detract from the value of these institutions, or lessen the respect which the general public has - I hope, in increasing measure - for them. There are alternatives to British constitutional methods, and our objectives in the matter of constitutional reform. Honorable senators will not deny that to-day we stand at the parting of the ways, and that if we are not careful Fascism may become firmly established in this country. We have only to do those things which are unwise, relax a little of our enthusiasm for the protection of our rights as members of a parliamentary deliberative assembly, and we shall be definitely, if ignorantly, paving the way for a dictatorship. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  - &gt;I have been following the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition (  Senator Collings)  very carefully, and T think it would assist honorable senators if at this stage he read the motion which ho proposes to submit at the conclusion of his speech. 
-! could have commenced by reading the motion, but J understood that the Standing Order required that I should conclude with a motion. The motion reads - 
That this Senate affirms its adherence to the principle that freedom of speech and debates in Parliament is essential to a free Legislature and"" a free people, and in no circumstances should be liable to impeachment in any court or place out of Parliament. 
The Australian newspapers, or at least those papers which I have had the opportunity to peruse since the statement was made by the Attorney-General, appear to agree on this subject. In the  Canberra Times  of to-day  -  la copy of which I pro duce, and the name and address of the publisher of which I can supply  -  we find- 
Privilege has long been conceded as essential to the supreme branch of the legislature - what Coke- called the grand inquest of the nation which had to defend itself against the encroachments of the Crown on the one hand and the injudicious and ill-intentioned attacks of individuals on the other hand. The privilege of Parliament is a settled part of the Constitution, and he who would attack it would attack one of the foundations of the Constitution. This is not a question of the party predominant for the moment in the popular House altering the Standing Orders- 
These are the important words -  but of attacking something that is indispensable to democratic institutions and alien only under Fascism and irksome to dictatorships. If we interfere with parliamentary privilege, we immediately assail our constitutional liberties and destroy them. "Already, under cover of the Constitution, there are censorships alien to British ideas by puppets sot up by the Government, but these are comparatively harmless so Song as Parliament merely regards them as a ministerial whim. When the next step is to be attempted of permitting a junta to determine what shall or shall not be given cover of privilege, we begin to abandon democracy and return to the mediaeval ideas practised by Fascist dictators. 
I have referred to what are probably minor matters such as the payment of members, the gradual whittling away of the privileges of the wealthy in the legislatures, and of the opportunities of citizens, however humble, to aspire to membership of parliaments. 
Any senator complaining to the Senate of a statement in the newspaper as a breach of privilege, shall produce a copy of the paper containing the statement in question, and be prepared to give the name of the printer or publisher, and also submit a substantive motion declaring the person in question to have been guilty of contempt. 
As the motion to be moved by the Leader of the Opposition is in general terms and does not declare any person guilty of contempt, I ask under what Standing Order this debate is permissible? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - I can discover in the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition nothing that relates to a breach of the privileges of the Senate. The motion simply asks the Senate to affirm in a general way its adherence to the principle of free speech and the privileges of Parliament. This matter should be dealtwith on a substantive motion. I must rule the present motion out of order. 
 Have I the right,  Mr. Deputy President,  to speak to the point of order? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - I have given my ruling, which the honorable senator may not discuss, unless ho proposes to dissent from it. 
 Standing Order 118, in my opinion, definitely establishes my right to do what I am doing. It reads - 
Whenever a matter or question directly concerning the privileges of the Senate .... has arisen since the last sitting of the Senate, a motion, calling upon the Senate to take action thereon may be moved, without notice, and shall, until decided, unless the debate be adjourned, suspend the consideration of other motions as well as orders of the day. 
SenatorFoll.  -  The Standing Order refers to the privileges of the Senate. 
 The privileges of the Senate have been definitely attacked in the published statement of the AttorneyGeneral. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - Standing Order 118 concerns the privileges of the Senate, and they have not been interfered with by the statement published in the newspapers. 
SenatorBrown.  -  The privileges of the Senate have been attacked by the Attorney-General. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - The statement which appeared in the press does not affect the Senate or the privileges of the Senate in the slightest degree. I have already ruled that the motion of the Leader of the Opposition is out of order. He may either amend itor submit  a  substantive motion, or move dissent from my ruling. 
SenatorCollings.  -  The last thing I desire to do is to move dissent from  your  ruling,  Mr. Deputy  President; I have too much respect for you to do anything of the kind. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - It is  not  a personal matter; I am obliged to enforce the Standing  Orders. 
SenatorCollings.  -  Can the matter be dealt with now if I submit a substantive motion in the terms I have already read ? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - The Standing Orders require that notice be given of a substantive motion. 
 It now seems that the machinery by which our procedure is governed is anobstacle to the course I have adopted - a course which, I may say, the  Speaker  and his officials in the House of Representatives fully reviewed this morning and pronounced to be in order. 
 byleave  - I think that it would be of interest to honorable senators if I were briefly to review certain aspects of the international situation. I propose to discuss the Sino-Japanese dispute and the situation in the Mediterranean, and to conclude with a reference to the report of the Mandates Commission on Palestine. 
On the 25th August the Japanese naval authorities closed the Chinese coast from Shanghai to Swatow to Chinese vessels, but at the same time announced that they would respect the peaceful commerce of other powers. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT.Order! The Leader of the Senate will proceed with his statement. 
On the 5th September, the Japanese authorities closed to Chinese vessels the remainder of the Chinese coast excluding Tsingtao and those territories leased to  third powers, and reiterated that they would pay respect to the commerce of third powers with which they did not intend to interfere. During the last few days the British Government has been considering the measures to be taken in the event of Japanese naval vessels attempting to interfere with foreign merchant vessels, the Japanese Government having intimated that, if the Chinese resorted to action such as the misuse of the flag the Japanese might have to examine foreign ships. In order to prevent, as far as possible, the misuse of the British flag, the British Government lias decided to raise no objection to the Japanese examining British ships on the high seas for the purpose of verifying the flag. His Majesty's ships have accordingly been instructed that, if a ship is flying the British flag in their presence, they should, if requested to do so by a Japanese warship, verify the right of that ship to fly the British flag. Masters of British ships in the Far East have been advised, if they are required to stop by a Japanese warship and none of His Majesty's ships is present, to allow the Japanese to board the ship to examine the certificate of registry on the understanding that an immediate report will bo made by the Japanese warship to the British naval authorities. The Japanese Government has been informed that, while the British Government does not admit the rights of the Japanese Government to verify the nationality of foreign merchantmen, verification will in practice be allowed. The British Government could not, however, acquiesce in any interference with merchantmen other than for verification of nationality. The British Government has also reserved the right to claim compensation for damages sustained by the owners of British ships delayed or stopped under this procedure. 
The British Government has kept the Commonwealth Government fully informed as to this aspect of the situation. Australia is not, however, directly concerned, as no ships on the Australian register are engaged in  passenger  or cargo traffic with Japanese and Chinese ports, although as honorable senators are aware three ships owned by the ' Eastern and Australian Steamship Company Limited, and one owned by Burns Philp and 
Company Limited, which are not on the Australian register, follow the route Sydney-Rabaul-Manila-Hong Kong. 
There has been little change in the situation at Shanghai during the last few days, although the extension of the Japanese offensive and the prolonged Chinese resistance have caused, increasing danger to the International Settlement. The British Government has continued to impress on combatants their obligations to avoid damage to life or property in this area. It seemed at one stage that it might be necessary to evacuate all British subjects from Shanghai. In fact about 3,700 British subjects, nearly all of them women and children, have been evacuated, but no arrangements are at present being made for further evacuation. Members of the British business community are definitely unwilling to contemplate any general evacuation or abandonment of their interests. Foreign banks resumed normal business on the 23rd August. There is at present no shortage of food, and fresh supplier are entering Shanghai daily. The lives of inhabitants of the International Settlement are still endangered by stray shells and aircraft bombs, but both Japanese and Chinese aircraft appear to be avoiding any attack on the International Settlement. In North China, the Japanese have started an offensive on a large scale south of Tientsin. 
As regards the shooting of the British Minister in China, the British Government is still  awaiting a  full reply from Tokyo. Reports have appeared in the newspapers to the effect that the Japanese have occupied  Pratas  and Ling Ting Islands. The  Commonwealth  Government has now received official confirmation of the report that the Japanese have occupied  Pratas  Island which lies about 180 miles south-east of Hong Kong. Since the occupation meteorological reports from the station on the island have been suspended, but the authorities at Hong Kong have been informed that k is proposed to resume reports as soon as possible. There is so far no indication as to how long the Japanese intend to remain in occupation. The report of the Japanese occupation of Ling Ting Island, which lies about 15 miles west-north-west of Hong Kong, is so far unconfirmed. 
There are two other aspects of the Sino-Japanese conflict to which T desire to allude.  Mr. Eden,  the Foreign Secretary, said in the House of Commons on" the 25th June, 1937- 
The House. will be aware of the fact that conversations have been proceeding with representatives of the Japanese Government "n the possibility of u better understanding, a better ordering of Anglo-Japanese relations generally, and it may be said that ,hose conversations, so far as they have gone, encourage us to hope that a more definite exchange  of  views may lead to further progress. It is anticipated that it may be possible at a very early date to begin the examination of concrete .proposals. 
The Commonwealth Government greatly regrets that the existing situation in North China has led to the postponement of these conversations. In reply to a question in the House of Commons on the 21st July,  Mr. Eden  said - 
So long as the present situation in North China persists, it would not seem opportune to open the conversations to which His Majesty's Government were looking forward, and I have been obliged to inform the Japanese Government that that is the view of His Majesty's Government. 
It will be recollected that at the recent Imperial Conference the Prime Minister outlined a proposal for a regional understanding and pact of non-aggression in the Pacific. All the Governments of the British Commonwealth agreed that a Pacific pact was a desirable objective. It was fully realized, however, that this was a mutter which would have to bc approached with some circumspection, and that it would be necessary to ascertain the views of other interested Governments before attempting any detailed negotiations. Honorable senators will appreciate that the Sino-Japanese dispute has inevitably led to the suspension of conversations for the time being. 
A state of grave insecurity has been created in the Mediterranean, owing to recent illegal attacks on shipping by submarines and aeroplanes acting without warning and without revealing their identity. The British and French Governments decided in the early part of this month that immediate consultation between, and action by, Mediterranean and certain other Powers had become necessary in order to deal with an intolerable situation. The British and French Governments accordingly proposed that a con- ference should be convened on the 10th September at Nyon to consider what measures should be taken in order to put a stop to the present state of insecurity in the Mediterranean, and to enforce the rules of international law regarding the treatment of shipping at sea. The British and French Governments invited Germany, the following Mediterranean Powers - Italy, Yugoslavia, Albania, Greece, Turkey and Egypt - and the Black Sea Powers - Soviet Russia, Roumania and Bulgaria - to attend the conference. Germany and Italy declined this invitation. Italy's absence from the conference appears to have been largely due to resentment caused by Notes sent to Italy by Soviet Russia alleging that Italian warships had torpedoed Russian merchantmen in the Mediterranean. The conference duly met on the 10th September and reached an agreement the following day on proposals which are now being referred to the Governments of the participating Powers. It is hoped that the agreement will be signed, to-day. These proposals have been fully reported in the press. Broadly speaking, they provide for a patrol of the Mediterranean, mainly by British and French naval forces, and assistance from the other participating governments, in order to protect all merchant ships which do not belong to either of the parties in the Spanish conflict. It was suggested that Italy should be asked to take action on similar lines in the Tyrrhenian and Adriatic Seas. The proposed agreement does not accord belligerent rights to either party in Spain. It is hoped that the scheme for the patrol of the Mediterranean will be in force by to-morrow, and a formal invitation to participate has already been sent to Italy. Germany has been officially informed of the results of the conference. I may add that the British Government sincerely desires to place Anglo-Italian relations on a better footing. It feels that, if the existing tension in the Mediterranean were reduced by the cooperation of all powers concerned, much would have been done to create a  mon  favorable atmosphere. 
I referred at some length to the position in Palestine in my statement to honorable senators on the 25th August. It will  be remembered that the Permanent Mandates Commission recently considered the report of the Royal Commission on Palestine at an extraordinary session. The full text of the preliminary report of the Mandates Commission to the Council of the League of Nations has now been received by the Commonwealth Government. The Mandates Commission favours in principle the examination of a solution involving the partition of Palestine, but it does not endorse the immediate creation of two new independent States. It considers that a lengthening of the period of political apprenticeship constituted by the Mandate would be absolutely essential both to the new Arab and the new Jewish States. This apprenticeship might take one of two forms. One solution would be a provisional cantonization whereby the two States, while enjoying a wide measure of internal autonomy and full power to regulate immigration, would be united tinder the mandatory Power for matters of defence, foreign affairs, and Customs. The other solution would be a separate mandate for each State until such time as each had given proof of its ability to govern itself. The appropriate moment for granting self-government would not necessarily be the same for both States. The Mandates Commission closed its report by paying the following tribute to the Mandatory Power, Great Britain :  - 
As for the Mandatory Power itself, the concern with which it has for nearly twenty years sought to appease the antagonistic feelings prevailing in Palestine must awaken in any man of good-will a degree of admiration all the higher in that it was exercised in a world in which brutal violence often stills thevoice of humanity. Let the Jews, who all too often, and without justification, show impatience at the delay and hesitation which the Mandatory Power has felt compelled to bring to the building-up of their national home, ask themselves whether there is any other nation by which they have been so little persecuted and to which, for generations past, they owe so many benefits. Let the Arabs, whose opposition to what is nevertheless a measure of higher justice which cannot be carried out without a sacifice from their side (ran be readily understood, remember the origin of their national emancipation. Without British efforts, certainly there would have been no Jewish national home; but also there would have been, on the threshold of the twentieth century, no independent Arab States. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate, as representing the Prime Minister, whether it is a fact  that,  as a sequel to the damaging disclosures made in the House of Representatives on Friday last, as the result of which the Prime Minister quarrelled with the  Speaker,  the resignation of either or both of those gentlemen has been received? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.In the first place I am not aware of any quarrel, and, in the second, I have certainly not heard of any resignation. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate as representing the Prime Minister, (1) whether the attention of the Prime Minister has been drawn to aparagraph published in the English News Magazine  Cavalcade,  of the 10th July, 1937, which commenced with the words, " Socialist-governed Australia looks to her defences ", and to a map of the world published in the same issue, on which, across the continent of Australia, are written the words, " Socialist-governed 
Australia ordered several 300 miles per hour warplanes, 100 miles per hour faster than any they have now"; (2) whether this description of the present Government i3 based on any utterance by tha Prime Minister during his recent visit to England, or whether it is merely a case of " coming events cast their shadows before "? 
According to newspaper reports, Japan will not purchase its agreed 'quota of wool from Australia. Has the Leader of the Senate any information in regard to these disturbing rumours? 
On the 1st September, I asked the Minister for External Affairs if he could give to the Senate any information as to what had been done or was being done by the League of Nations in regard to the SinoJapanese trouble. The right honorable gentleman said then that he would make inquiries as to whether any official information was available in his department. In view of the fact that he has just made a statement in which even the name of the League of nations did not occur, are we to assume that the League of Nations is not doing anything in regard to this matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is the wireless plant at Laverton aerodrome (used for transmission between the ground staff and air pilots whilst flying) efficient and up-to-date? 
What is its range? 
The wireless plant at Laverton is carrying out satisfactorily the work required of it. However, technical developments in wireless equipment and in aircraft are rendering the plant obsolescent, and have made it advisable to modernize the station completely. With this object the necessary equipment has been ordered and will be installed in the near future. 

 It is  not  in the public interest to disclose performance details of air force wireless equipment, but the honorable senator may be assured that the ranges are adequate for operational requirements. 
During the present debate, as well as the two debates that preceded it, many references were made by honorable senators on both sides to a certain little publication, described as a blue book. This book is somewhat mysterious, and singularly unfortunate. I cannot regard myself as the proud possessor of a copy of it, but I was lucky enough to be able to borrow one for a few minutes. I have not been able to go carefully through it, but in the distance that T have gone into it I have come across some very interesting and illuminating information. First, on page 2 of the book, I came across a paragraph set out in rather bold type as follows : - 
The honorable senator is entirely wrong. 
I believe that I am absolutely correct in saying that in return for the omission of communism from that paragraph, the Communists will give their undivided support to Labour candidates in the forthcoming elections. Members of the Labour party occasionally repudiate the Communists, but what they say is merely so much hyprocrisy. In the  Labor Baily  of yesterday's date, I read the following: - 
Communist candidates in this State have been recommended for first preference votes by the United Australia party, while Communist preference votes have been consistently cast for the anti-Labour candidates. 
After reading the statement I obtained the official figures relating to the general elections of 1934, when the Communists were fighting the Labour party candi-dates, and discovered a complete refutation of it. When Sharkey, the Communist candidate in New South Wales for the Senate, was excluded in the count, he was credited with 23,063 votes. His first preferences were distributed as follows : - 2,038 votes, or 8 per cent, were given to candidates supporting the Government; 1,811 votes, or 7 per cent, were given to the Douglas Credit candidates: and 19,214, or 83 per cent, were given to Labour candidates. In the face of these figures, how can the  Labor Daily  declare that experience has proved that invariably the Communists have supported non-Labour candidates ? 
Since the Communists are not now fighting the Labour party we can make a. pretty safe guess how their votes will be cast in the coming election. I have in my hand a copy of Leaflet No. 1, issued by the Communist party of Australia. It is headed " Why we want a Labour Government." I quote from it the following: 
The Lyons Government must go. 
The Communist party sets itself to the task of bringing about the defeat of the Lyons Government using to the full its organization, press, and meetings for this purpose. 
The defeat of Lyons means the return of a Labour Government. 
The Communist party wants a  Labour Government returned. 
Obviously the Communist party desires the return of the Labour Government because it will then be within measurable distance of achieving its objective, whereas if the Lyons Government be returned, it will have no hope at all. The leaflet continues - 
The Communist party, to show its sincerity - 
Sincerity to whom, if not to the Labour party? - lias withdrawn all but one or two candidates, and will give full support to the endorsed Australian Labour party candidates. 
If during the elections in 1934, when the Communists were fighting the Labour party, 83 per cent, of Communists' votes were given to Labour candidates, what may we expect when the Communist party is behind the Labour party as it is now? The election leaflet concludes with this declaration - 
In not many countries has the Labour party quite the same ideas as the present Labour party of Australia. Even in this Parliament we have heard Labour members extolling communism and in the same breath referring to Great Britain as a foreign Imperialist power. The Communists know that the only hope of realizing their objective - the overthrow of Constitutional Government - is to work from within the Labour party. In view of what has been said about the attitude of the Labour party to the Communists, I am convinced that the only purpose of such lip condemnation is to hoodwink the electors because, as is well known, Communists are within the ranks of the Labour party. "When a Communist seeks admission to that party he does not say openly - "I am a Communist, may I please be admitted" No; he goes about the business in a different way. He knows that he has only to sign the Labour party's platform to be received with open arms into the party. Once a member, he is free to work for the objective of communism. This, I suggest, explains Labour's present attitude to the Communist party which, during the coming election, is definitely pledged to support Labour candidates. So much for Labour's election booklet. 
I am glad to know that the Government has increased the vote for the Council of - Scientific and Industrial Research because there is yet much scope for the activities of that splendid institution, and an amount far in excess of the sum provided could well be employed by it. I congratulate the Government upon having restored invalid and old-age pensions to £1 a week. "We cannot, however, overlook the fact that a very large sum must be provided this year for pensions. 
Whenever this Government does anything in which the Leader of the Opposition can see some virtue, he says that it has done so against its will; but when it does something of which he does not approve, he says that despite Labour opposition the Government has acted unwisely. Although invalid and old-age pensions have now been restored to the full amount, there are several anomalies and injustices in our present pensions legislation, which can be removed only by amending legislation. I sincerely trust that before long the Government will tackle the problem on broader lines than in the past. I believe, that something will be done, and I am fortified in that belief by the fact that the Government has thi3 year provided £75,000 to meet the preliminary expenditure in connexion with national insurance. It has already shown its sincerity, and I trust that when it is returned after the forthcoming elections, it will make a determined effort to remove some of the anomalies and injustices which now exist in our pensions legislation, even going so far as to provide a greater measure of social security by dealing effectively with the problem of unemployment. 
The honorable senator must have -been reading the Labour party's blue book. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Sitting suspended from12.4 to 8 p.m. 

 by leave  - I desire to inform honorable senators that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  announced in the House of Representatives this afternoon, that he proposes to recommend to  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral that a dissolution of the House of Representatives be granted with a view to the holding of the general elections on the 23rd October next. The Prime Minister saw  His Excellency  today, and informed him that the necessary financial provision had been made for carrying on the Public Services of the Commonwealth during the period that must elapse before Parliament can reassemble. It is proposed that the date of issue of the writs shall be Friday, the 24th September ; the closing date for the receipt of nominations, Saturday, the 2nd October; and that the writs shall be returnable on or before the 27th November. In accordance with the established practice, it is proposed that elections for the Senate also shall be held on the 23rd October. 

 Sitting suspended from8.3 p.m. until. 9.30 p.m. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Will he inform the Senate as to the nature of the services rendered to the Australian Broadcasting Commission by - 
the son of Chief Justice Street; 
the son of  Sir Charles  Rosenthal ; 

 Mr. Alexander Hordern;  and state in each case the commencing date and  duration of each engagement and the salary paid? 
Is it a fact that a so-called " vigilance committee " has been established by the Australian Broadcasting Commission; if so, will he inform the Senate as to its personnel and w hether or not such committee is in the nature of a secret service within the commission, concerning itself with the private affairs and conduct of the employees of the commission? 
Will he explain to the Senate why he said in his letter of the 29th October. 1936, in reply toquestions asked by SenatorCollings on the 8th October, 1936,that no representations had been made to the Broadcasting Commission to retain in Australia the services of  Dr. Malcolm  Sargent, when on the 14th October, fifteen days previously,  Senator Collings  was informed that the commission was trying to arrange for  Dr. Sargent's  return to Australia in 1937? 
Will he inform the Senate why, if the payment of £2,000 to  Mr. Cleary  is justified, it. is still necessary to keep and pay two officials as manager? 
The following information Las been furnished by the Australian Broadcasting Commission :  - 1. (a) The commission has not at any time employed any son of Chief Justice Street. 
The son of  Sir Charles  Rosenthal was selected, after a series of tests, from a large number of applicants for the position of- announcer, joining the commission's New South Wales staff on the6th April, 1935; he was transferred to the Victorian staff on the 24th April, 1937, as studio supervisor and is still employed in Melbourne in that capacity. 
The commissionhas not at any time employed  Mr. Alexander  Hordern. 
The commission has not established any vigilance committee". 
Shortly after  Dr. Sargent's  arrival in Australia, the commission sounded him regarding a return visit for a longer period. 
The commission employs only one official as general manager. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Briefly, the object of this measure is to ratify an agreement between the Governments of the Common wealth and New South Wales, and the National Oil Proprietary Limited in respect of the Newnes shale oil undertaking. 
It seems hardly necessary for me to stress the importance of the supply of oil for various purposes in Australia, and especially for national uses. The Government has been unflagging in its endeavours to aid prospecting for flow oil, and to foster the production of petrol from shale deposits that exist in extensive quantities in various parts of the Commonwealth. Parliament has already voted £250,000 to assist the search for flow oil. The present measure represents a positive attempt by two Governments, in combination with an outstanding industrialist -  Mr. George  Davis - to develop the shale oil industry. The objective is the production in Australia of oil in commercial quantities, so ensuring some degree of independence from outside  sources. 
It is needless to emphasize the ramifications into which this important product extends, and its great value for commercial and industrial purposes. For defence reasons alone the expenditure that is being incurred in this venture is fully justified. The ordinary demands of the Defence Forces for oil and petrol on a peace basis are very great, but are not comparable to the immense quantities that would be required in the event of hostilities. Great expense is being incurred to-day for the storage of supplies of oil for defence, much of which would be obviated by the successful development of local resources. Therefore, apart from all other considerations, however great and extensive, the importance of providing local supplies of petrol and oil for defence necessities, is a sound and adequate reason, if none other existed, for the present vigorous and comprehensive effort. 
There is another aspect to which I should refer. The enterprise is of great value and potentiality in relation to employment. It will provide direct employment for from 600 to 700 men, in addition to indirect employment for probably over 2,000 people. Should it succeed, marked expansion of the shale oil industry may be anticipated, to include such fields as Latrobe in Tasmania, and Baerami, Murrurundi, Marrangaroo and other localities in New South Wales, thus greatly widening the avenues of employment. 
Newnes will provide the nucleus of an oil production organization which could, in case of need, be extended at short notice. What is equally important, it will become the training ground for young Australian fuel technologists and industrial chemists, who will be of great value to our secondary industries in the future. At present the opportunities for young men who qualify for a mining and engineering course in Australian universities are all too few. They have, as a general rule, to leave their own country and seek positions in other lands, where to-day many of them are occupying high and responsible positions. 
Newnes is situated in the valley of the Wolgan, in the Blue Mountains, some 130 miles from Sydney. Yesterday, there were in that valley but few of the prosperous community of other days; those who remained were sustained by memories of former activity, and an enduring faith in the ultimate revival of a great industry. A different picture confronts us to-day. Activity has been resumed, and new hope inspires the people, not only of Newnes, but alsoof the whole of the vast middle-west of New South Wales. Those hills and valleys of the Blue Mountains will shortly be the scene of great industrial activity and ever-increasing employment. 
Much has been said recently about the nationalization of oil production at Newnes. It is of importance, therefore, that I should clear up any misconceptions which may exist in this regard. I would point out that the policy of the Scullin Government was consistent with that of the present Government in connexion with nationalization. In October, 1931, the Scullin Government, when approving of an expenditure of- £30,000 on exploratory work at. Newnes, imposed the condition that any further work there must be carried out by private enterprise. There is a substantial doubt, too, as to whether, if the project were nationalized, the Commonwealth Government would legally be competent to compete with private enterprise. Cockatoo Dock, when under government control, was restrained from entering into such competition. At present the two governments interested can take only a small proportion of  the  expected output of Newnes, and the company will, therefore, need to market the major part of its production in direct competition with private enterprise. 
Before proceeding to explain the details of the agreement, T should like to say a word or two on the Davis Gelatine interests, which have been responsible for the formation of the National Oil Proprietary Limited, the company which proposes to develop Newnes. The Davis Gelatine business in Australia employs about 1,000 people, and branches of it, radiating from Australia, have been established in the United Kingdom, South Africa and New Zealand. 
Offers were publicly invited by the Commonwealth Government on the 28th May, 1936, from persons and companies desirous of undertaking the production and marketing of petrol and oil from shale in the Newnes-Capertee field. This invitation did not meet with any response, and  Mr. George  Davis was then approached regarding the establishment of the industry. Because of past failures Newnes was like a dog with a bad name, and many people were not slow to use its unfavorable record in trying to dissuade  Mr. Davis  from undertaking the enterprise. This did not, however, daunt him, and his decision to embark on the enterprise is now the subject of this measure. 
I come now to the main provisions of the agreement. National Oil Proprietary Limited will subscribe capital to an Amount of £166,667, conditional upon the Commonwealth Government providing debenture capital amounting to £334,000, and the State of New South Wales providing debenture capital of £166,000. This debenture capital will carry interest at 4$ per cent., and the principal will be repayable as a first charge against profits at the rate of l/20th each year, subject to the complete repayment of any balance due within thirteen months after the close of a period of nineteen years. In addition to this annual repayment of l/20th of the capital, the company is required, after meeting working expenses, taxation and depreciation, and paying a cumulative dividend of 10 per cent, per annum, to apply any additional profits towards the further redemption of the debenture capital. No advances will be made to the company by the Commonwealth or the State of New South Wales until 166,667 shares of £1 each in the company have been subscribed and allotted, subject to the payment of the whole amount in cash, and have been paid for to an amount of 5s. a share. The company has covenanted to establish the industry by the 1st January, 1940. Failure to do this will involve the payment to the Commonwealth and the State of New South Wales of damages totalling £16,000. 
The Commonwealth will grant protection, to petrol produced by the company up to 10,000,000 gallons per annum, against imported petrol and petrol pro duced from imported crude oil, to the extent of the customs duty, excise duty and primage at present operating, for the period ending on the 31st December, 1964. If these rates are reduced, a bounty equivalent to the amount of the reduction will be paid, by the Commonwealth on petrol produced by the company. 
The Commonwealth will permit the entry into Australia, free of customs duty, of the cracking plant required by the company, and of such other plant as, in the opinion of the company and the Commonwealth, cannot be satisfactorily and economically manufactured in Australia. In addition, products required by the company for  ethylizing  its petrol will also be admitted duty free. 
The Commonwealth and the State of New South Wales will, as far as may be considered practicable, give preference to the company for a period of 25 years from the date of the ratification of the agreement, in purchases of petrol for' government departments, provided that the prices and quality of its petrol are equal to those of other petrols. 
Another matter of considerable local importance is that the company will pay to the Commonwealth, within one month from the date of the ratification of the agreement by the Parliaments of the Commonwealth and the State of New South Wales, a sum of £3,500 in respect of the option which the Commonwealth holds over certain machinery, plant and other property, at Newnes. It is the intention to apply the whole of this sum towards the payment of wages of men and certain other debts which were contracted by a  Mr. A.  E. Broue,  who held an option over plant and machinery at Newnes during 1931. The disposition of this money was set out in an agreement which  Mr.  Broue  entered into with the Shale Oil Development Committee Limited. 
Some further explanation of this provision of the agreement is probably necessary. During 1930, the plant and machinery at Newnes was purchased from Messrs. John Fell and Company by a company known as Shale Oil Investigations Proprietary Limited, which was formed for this purpose by certain of the Broken Hill mining companies. In 1931, Shale Oil Investigations Proprietary 
Limited granted an option over this plant and machinery to  Mr. A.  E. Broue.  who carried out certain work at Newnes. In the same year, the Scullin Government appointed the Shale Oil Development Committee Limited. The functions of this committee were to conduct investigations into the production of oil from shale at Newnes, and to endeavour to influence private enterprise to operate the project. The committee, in turn, obtained an option over the plant and machinery from  Mr.  Broue.  on the understanding that, if the option were exercised, a sum of £3,500 would be paid by the committee iu respect of wages and other debts incurred by  Mr.  Broue  in connexion with Newnes. Although the Commonwealth Government has now no legal obligation in this regard, as the agreement between  M.r.  Broue  and the committee has expired through effluxion of time, the committee has all along insisted that any company that may be formed to develop Newnes should pay a sum of £3,500 for the option to enable these debts, particularly wages, to bo met. 
The Government of Now South Wales has undertaken to grant the company mineral leases, and to exempt shale from the payment of royalty. In addition, Newnes products will enjoy a preference of 20% on freights over the railways of New South Wales. 
If, within the period ending on the 31st December, 1959, petrol is produced from Australian flow oil to an extent that it is impossible for the company, as a result of such production, to operate except at a loss, the .Commonwealth, and the State of New South Wales, have undertaken favorably to consider the granting of adequate relief to the company. 
A very important paragraph of the agreement provides that the company shall, before commencing production, install, at its own cost, such additional plant as may be necessary to permit of the production of fuel oil suitable for use in the Australian Navy. The Commonwealth Government insisted on this provision, which gives 'to the enterprise a wider importance from the viewpoint of security. 
The first schedule to the agreement is of particular importance. It provides that it shall be a cardinal principle of the company that it is to be, and shall remain, under the control of persons whoare British subjects. No foreigner shall be qualified to hold office as a director of the company or to be employed as oneof the principal officers of the company, and no share in the company shall be held by, or in trust for, or be in any way under the control of, any foreigner or foreign corporation, or any corporation under foreign control. This provision should be interesting to those who feet strongly that oil production in Australia should be under British control. 
I trust that the measure will be accorded the support that a new national enterprise of such magnitude and importance merits. Successive governments- have for years conducted  investigations into  the possibilities of the production of  petrol  from shale in this country. This bill represents a real effort to achieve results. Australia has been far behind other countries in this great national work, and this agreement constitutes a well-thought-out plan ito make up lost ground. 
In conclusion, I may add that it is with a measure of personal satisfaction that I submit this measure to the Senate. On my first visit to Newnes, and, particularly, to the Capertee Valley, I realised the immense possibilities which lay in this proposition for the production of oil from shale. Perhaps my 'Scottish instinct was in the ascendency when I learned of the tremendous expenditure that had been incurred there without success. At any rate, I came to the conclusion that this was an enterprise by which we might, at least, commence the production of oil in Australia on the most favorable economic basis which we have yet discovered. What the future may hold for this country in the production of flow oil I do not know, but of all measures that would make in any degree for Australia's independence in respect of oil fuel in time of war, the production of oil from shale is the least uneconomic, and, I venture to say, will prove, in view of the technological discoveries from year to year, a most important factor in the economic life of Australia. I commend the bill to honorable senators. 
I had hoped that in his speech the Minister would have given to the Senate much more information than he did because, whilst the bill itself is a fairly simple proposition the schedule to it is highly complicated. The Opposition does not propose to make any comment upon this measure, solely with a view to opposing something which the Government has brought down. We do not believe in adopting such an attitude, and have never done so in respect of any measure; but when dealing with a great undertaking such as this bill proposes, we claim the right to criticise certain phases which we believe are entirely unsatisfactory. In this respect it is worth while to review briefly the history of the efforts to produce oil from coal and shale in Australia. This is not a new proposition ; it has been before various countries, including Australia, for a great number of years. Experiments have been conducted in certain countries, and all of them have demonstrated that it is possible to produce oil from coal and shale economically. 
It is being produced at Billingham-on-Tees. 
Yes. I do not see why Australia should have a monopoly of seeing that nothing uneconomic is done. 
I have answered the honorable senator's query. Having regard to the great intellects behind, for instance, the work being conducted in .the United Kingdom, at Billingham-on-Tees, I am disinclined to believe that the Minister is the only person who shows concern for the economic side of the business. My colleague,  Senator Brown,  some time ago asked a question as to the possibilities of developing the production of power alcohol from vegetable products, and drew attention to the fact that millions of gallons of alcohol was being produced in Germany. The Minister said, in effect, " Yes. But Germany is in such a posi tion that it cannot afford to study the fact that it is producing power alcohol uneconomically." What the Minister meant was that Germany's external affairs were in such a precarious condition that it was obliged to proceed with the production of power alcohol, regardless of whether the process was economical or not. During the debate on another bill in this chamber, and in connexion with the defence estimates recently, we were definitely advised that Australia is in a similar position ; like Germany, it is facing a probable state of national emergency. Furthermore, this Government has never failed to impress that point upon this branch of the Legislature. However, despite the fact that it has had absolute control of both Houses for the last six years, and the Prime Minister definitely promised in his last policy speech that this proposition would be undertaken with a view to providing employment, it is not till to-day, when this moribund Parliament is preparing to meet its makers, that the Government brings this bill before the Senate. The Minister has not yet said so, but, I have no doubt, he will tell us that we may criticise the bill and the agreement it embodies, but we cannot alter the agreement. If that is so, the Government is simply making a farce of the whole business. What is the history of our efforts to produce flow oil? That matter, of course, is very closely related to this proposition. I have had intimate and personal acquaintance with the great efforts that were made to find satisfactory quantities of flow oil in Queensland. A considerable measure of success was achieved in that respect, hut I know that the people who watched that development with the keenest possible interest, including myself, are definitely of opinion that foreign interests were responsible for failure in that instance to discover flow oil in what the Minister would call commercial quantities. At Roma, where for a very long period the town and the surrounding district were lit with gas obtained from the well sunk nearby, a considerable quantity of oil was secured, though not sufficient to make the proposition immediately worth  while. It is most remarkable, however, that every time we got near something worth while, and were about to pierce the stratum which was supposed to be obstructing the coming in of the oil from the basin surrounding the well, something happened which nobody could account for. On one occasion a tool was dropped down the well to obstruct operations, and, finally it was decided to engage a caretaker to watch the well at night when no workmen were on the job. On the occasion of the last accident, which finally " put the lid on" the whole enterprise, the caretaker was mysteriously got away, and next morning it was found that a tool had been dropped down the well. As a result of such interferences the work was given up in disgust. 
Paragraph 23 of the schedule to this bill contains the following very sinister provision : - 
The Company shall not without the consent in writing of the Commonwealth or the State alter the provisions of its Memorandum of Association which are set out in the first schedule hereto or alter the Articles of Association made in pursuance of such provisions and the Company shall at all times and in all respects observe the said provisions of its Memorandum and the Articles of Association made in pursuance thereof and without affecting the other remedies of the Commonwealth or the State the remedies of mandamus and/or injunction in the High Court of Australia or in the Supreme Court of New South Wales may at the suit of the Commonwealth or the State or the Attorney-General of either of them lie for enforcing the provisions of this Clause and the Acts ratifying this Agreement may .provide accordingly. 
That provision means that if such a crisis in respect of this business should develop that it is considered necessary to allow foreign interests to secure a dominating influence over the proposition, there will be nothing to stand in the road of such an intrusion but the acquiescence of either the Commonwealth Government or the Government of New South Wales. The only way to prevent foreign interests from obtaining influence in this proposition is to provide that in no circumstances shall the articles of association and personnel of the company be altered except with the consent of both Governments. 
I do not claim to be an expert in such matters, but the 
Leader of the Senate has just made a damaging admission that we cannot, by this bill or any other, prevent the major oil companies from securing control of this  propositon 
It is admitted that it cannot be done and that we cannot safeguard ourselves. 
The determining factor in this whole business is that it is essential for us to provide ourselves, either by flow oil or by the extraction of oil from coal or shale, with the oil supplies that we need in this country. I agree that we must protect ourselves in that way. I welcome the bill, because it is, at least, an attempt to make Australia more self-contained and more self-reliant ; but the Opposition desires to register, as sincerely as possible, its absolute detestation of the policy of leaving any phase of the defence activities in this country open to the possibility of profiteering by private enterprise. I shall be told that the Government is quite prepared to accept all responsibility in this connexion. The Minister who introduced the bill referred to the tremendous losses that had been sustained hitherto in projects of this kind. My complaint is that this Government, -having spent tens of thousands of pounds in investigating the possibilities of extracting oil from coal or shale in this country and in causing geological surveys to be made by aeroplanes and every other possible means to ascertain the likelihood of obtaining oil supplies, is now making the whole of the information obtained at such cost available to private enterprise. For what purpose? I do not wish to say a word against  Mr. George  Davis. I dc not know him, but I have been informed that he has a wonderful capacity for organization and for the development of new industries, and. that his integrity cannot be faulted. I accept the statements of other people to this effect. But no one can persuade me that  Mr. Davis  has taken up this project from philanthropic motives. He- must know that there is a good prospect of a substantial profit in it for himself. I credit him with ordinary business acumen! While the debate on the bill was proceeding in the House of Representatives last week,  Mr. George  Davis was in this building watching his interests. I do not blame him for doing so. 
What a point to take ! The fact is that some one accredited by  Mr. George  Davis was -in Canberra watching his interests. 1 do not blame him for this. I would have had my emissaries here watching the proceedings if my economic future and possible profits amounting to hundreds of thousands of pounds were at stake. The point I make is that  Mr. Davis  has not embarked on this undertaking for the good of his health. I blame the Government for what has happened. If there is one thing that hangs like a spectre over Europe and, in fact, the whole world to-day, and that accounts more than any other thing for the condition of unhappiness and despair of the nations, it is the policy of re-armament that has been adopted on such a. gigantic scale, as to become a definite madness from which there is apparently no escape. Obviously, Australia had to become involved in this procedure. The condition of the world in this regard is entirely due to the fact that armaments are being manufactured by private firms for profit, and not by governments in the interests of the people. It is demonstrable beyond argument that so long as armaments may be manufactured by private firms for profit and the search for oil left to private interests, although the finding of it is necessary to safeguard the country in a national emergency, wars will continue to occur. If this work were in the hands of governments and the profit-making element were eliminated, wars would not occur. Everybody knows that. 
We shall be told on the hustings that the Opposition attempted to defeat this bill, and thereby jeopardized the prospects of the direct employment of 600 workers and the indirect employment of 2,000 others.  It will be said that we stood in the way of the employment of these men. We are doing nothing of the kind. We are criticizing the bill sincerely and honestly with the object of improving it. What belated interest in the unemployed this Government is displaying! In the policy speech which the Prime Minister  (Mr.- Lyons)  delivered six years ago he said that prompt action would be taken to provide work for the unemployed. For six years a government led by the right honorable gentleman has had absolute power in both Houses of the Legislature, but only at the eleventh hour, as a sort of death-bed repentance, and for the purpose of election propaganda, has this bill been introduced.  
I shall not speak at much greater length. I know that the motion now before the chair will be agreed to, for the Government has the numbers behind it. I wish to make it clear that the Labour party is anxious to ensure the development of our oil shale deposits. Our objections to the Government's proposal, apart from some of the technical provisions of the special paragraphs of the agreement, is that the project is being, to a very large extent, handed over to private enterprise. The public interests  ave  being protected to only a very slight degree. For example, one paragraph of the agreement provides that if by 1940 the project has not made satisfactory progress, the company may not be called to account by Parliament. All that can be done, will be to refer the whole matter to the Auditor-General of New South Wales. That gentleman is an independent officer who is not subject to the control of the Parliaments of either New South Wales or the Commonwealth. Parliament may* criticize the proceedings of the company, but it will be unable to take any remedial action for the Auditor-General of New South Wales will be the sole arbiter. How easy it will therefore be for the major oil companies to secure control of this enterprise. They will doubtless be able to convince the Auditor-General of New South Wales that the company has not stood up to its job. What is perhaps  more objectionable is that the same interests will be able to say to both the Commonwealth Government and the Government of New South Wales : " What did we tell you? You cannot produce oil in this country." 
A close examination of the bill also causes me to ask how it justifies the Minister's elaborate protestations of the sympathy of the Government for the workers. I find nothing in it which makes it mandatory on the company to give preference to unionists or to pay award rates and observe award conditions. The Government may say : " We made possible the establishment of this project and so provided work for an additional 600 men, yet the Opposition criticized us for doing so." I repeat, however, that nothing in the bill should lead anyone to suppose that the Government has any real sympathy with the working class, for there is no provision in the agreement to protect the interests of the workers. It is not provided, for example, that the workers shall be represented on the board of directors or exercise any control whatever in the. management of the company, although a substantial amount of public money is being invested in the enterprise. 
SenatorFoll.  -  Award conditions must apply to the enterprise. 
There is no reason why we should thank this Government for that. The present occupants of the treasury bench are the lineal descendants of a government which, a. few years ago, went to the country on a policy of "No arbitration". It was defeated; nevertheless we find no provision in this bill making it mandatory for the company to observe award wages and conditions. We are entitled, therefore, to question the sincerity of honorable gentlemen opposite when they talk about what they are doing for the 600 workers who, it is said, will be provided with work in this undertaking. The crocodile tears of honorable gentlemen opposite will deceive no one. The introduction of the bill at this stage of the session may fairly be described as electioneering propaganda. The Government is saying to the workers, in effect: " Shut your eyes and open your mouth and see what we will send you ". It cannot be denied that if the bill is passed in its present form about £500,000 of public money will be definitely endangered. Probably another £500,000 will be lost before the end of the chapter is reached. 
I point out also that under the provisions of this bill the Auditor-General of New South Wales will be able, as a mining warden is, to grant extension after extension of time to the company for the fulfilment of the conditions set out. I conclude by directing attention to the final clause of the bill which reads as follows :  - 
There shall be payable out of the Consolidated RevenueFund, which is hereby appropriated accordingly, such sums as are necessary for the purpose of meeting the liabilities of the Commonwealth arising under or out of the agreement. 
The clause did not read in that way at lunch time yesterday. It was only late in the proceedings in the House of Representatives last night that the Government itself amended the wording of that clause. I claim that there is something sinister in that amendment. Honorable senators on this side of the House would have preferred the clause as originally drafted, rather than in its present form. 
I shall tell the honorable senator. When the bill was brought down in the House of Representatives clause 7 definitely provided that the sum of £334,000 should be payable out of the Consolidated Revenue for the purpose of meeting the liabilities of the Commonwealth arising under this agreement. Even a schoolboy could understand exactly what the Government of this country and the taxpayers were committed to under the clause as it was then worded. In the bill now before the Senate, the commitment of this country in respect of the venture is indefinite. In other words, we are asked to sign a blank cheque in favour of the company. So far as the Opposition is concerned, those are the points of honest and sincere criticism which we are entitled to make in regard to this bill, and we submit them for the consideration of honorable senators. 
Although I had intended to say quite a lot in regard to this measure, I shall content myself by reviewing briefly  this important matter and by replying to some of the remarks passed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  not only to-day, but also on a former occas810Il  when the subject was under discussion in the Senate. I regard this bill a3 the beginning of a very necessary experiment in this country. "We know very well that during the last ten or fifteen years the scientists of the world have sought to discover a means by which oil could be produced on a commercial basis from shale, vegetable matter, and other sources. For a number of years prior to that the world had been dependent on subterranean stores of oil which, on being tapped, gushed to the surface. With the developments of modern transportation methods oil rapidly ranked foremost among the essential requirements of the nations of the world. Even with our present small population, enormous sums of money .are sent out of this country for the purchase of oil. The consumption of petrol in Australia has grown rapidly until to-day it approaches 300,000,000 gallons per annum, costing from £12,000,000 to £14,000,000. Unfortunately, we have not been able to discover flow oil in this country. Geologists tell us that the geological formations of certain areas in the northern portions of Australia and in New Guinea indicate the possibility that flow oil may be found in them. People have also said that there are possibilities in the south, but in the opinion of geologists the likelihood of finding flow oil there is very remote. Eventually, with the rapid advancement of oil geology, we may find flow oil in this country. In an endeavour to stem the flow of money out of this country for the purchase of oil, efforts have been made to produce oil by the adoption of various scientific processes. Every party in this Parliament is definitely interested in the advance of science in this direction. If oil can be produced in commercial quantities from coal or shale, all members of this Parliament will do their utmost to promote such production. 
That is so; it i3 being produced in Australia at the present time, but not economically. 
For a number of years I have advocated that we should attempt to produce oil from coal in this country, and I am still of that opinion; but it cannot be denied that production of oil from coal is uneconomic. Endeavours have been made to produce oil from coal in Germany, Great Britain and the United States of America, but production has never been achieved on an economic basis, because of the competition of flow oil, which is sold  at a  comparatively low price.  Sir David  Rivett, that great Australian, who is in charge of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, after his return from a tour abroad to investigate the production of oil, summed up the position very concisely in his report- 
I scarcely know whether it is my duty to go any further than this general statement of the .position as I see it. lt is beyond me to say how much weight should be attached to the defence aspect of the matter or to what extent responsibility in that direction may lie eased .by large scale storage. After all, if the next four or five years are likely to see war, we must store in any case, for  hydrogeneation  will not save us within that period. If, however, the establishment of a unit to produce oil from coal is to be looked at from the same standpoint as the construction of a battleship, then other3 must say how long we can afford to postpone action, if at all. 
That is the position I have taken up.  Sir David  Rivett said, in effect - " If you build battleships they are uneconomic, but it is essential for the safety of the nation that they be built. The production of oil from coal also is uneconomic, but the men in control of the nation must decide whether oil is a.s essential as battleships." I would spend millions of pounds on the development of the production of oil from coal. Like those members of the Opposition in the House of Representatives who represent the coal-fields constituencies in New South Wales, I am favorable to experiments in the production of oil from coal, but I am convinced that the most economic source is shale. 
What is the history of the development of the shale deposits in New South 
Wales ? In 1865 - almost on the threshold of. the oil era - the first attempts were made to exploit the shale in the Newnes Valley for the production of kerosene, which then had a high commercial value, not only in Australia, but also abroad. Of course, the production of kerosene did not require the expensive refining plants that are necessary for the production of petrol. The shale also yielded paraffin, which was used in the manufacture of candles for lighting purposes. There was a market in Australia, and in the world generally, for those products. Another by-product from the shale was sent to Germany, where it was used for the production of gas. In spite of all these obvious advantages, early efforts to develop the Newnes shale were uneconomic. The industry, however, struggled on for some time. In those days only five gallons of oil COUld be produced from a ton of shale; I understand that to-day 50 to 100 gallons can be produced from a similar quantity, and it seems that the project has much more chances of success now than it had formerly. The technical processes are continually being improved. Esthonia, which was referred to by the Minister in Charge of Development  (Senator McLachlan),  has outdistanced other countries in evolving technological methods for the production of oil other .than flow oil. Since John Fell went into the Newnes Valley 70 years ago, millions of pounds have been sunk in a vain endeavour to develop the shale deposits. Today, however, owing to the rapid strides made in the evolution of processes for the extraction of oil from shale, many people are interesting themselves in the exploitation of the shale deposits at Newnes. Every trade union in this country has urged that the deposits be worked. There is unanimity among the trade union leaders in Australia in regard to the importance of this matter. In fact, so great has been the interest of some of them that they have left their work in their unions in order to give their support to this great national undertaking. Some years ago, the Scullin Government, in cooperation with the New South Wales Government, appointed a committee to carry out certain exploratory and investigational work in connexion with the 
Newnes field, and provided approximately £100,000 for that purpose. Those composing the committee were men of high scientific attainments; they completed their investigations by saying that the Newnes deposits could be worked only by the State and Federal Governments, acting in conjunction, and that the difficulties associated with the production of oil from shale were too great for private enterprise alone to solve. The history of Newnes is a long story of failure. Leading industrialists in the British Empire, men whose interests were closely connected with the production of other than flow oil, were invited by the Commonwealth Government to work the deposits at Newnes in return for certain concessions and privileges. Subsequently, advertisements were inserted in the press throughout the British Empire - I know they appeared in the London, press as well as in Australian newspapers - stating in effect: - "Here is this deposit, this is the development that we require, this is what we will give you as a privilege if you come in." How many offers were received in reply? From what I understand, not one. Private enterprise, as usual, could not see that, after the failures of 70 years, any man could make a success of it. Ultimately, there appeared on the horizon  Mr Davis  of -Davis' Gelatine Limited, who has been famous in this country for his progressive industrial views. Without exaggerating, I should say that if we were to search the earth we could not find a better man to develop this industry. He has succeeded at everything he has undertaken, not that he has the Midas touch, but that he. has the Henry Ford touch; he has a genius for organization and for the control of his workmen. Among the men who are in his employ are many' who speak most enthusiastically of him. As we have been told and know, he took much of the produce of the primary industries of Australia that had been lying waste for years and out of it built an industry of great profit. We are told that in entering into this agreement he is . merely out for profit for himself. I assure the Senate that he is not. One has only to visit his works to see that that is not his character. The Leader of the Opposition in this chamber began his speech with all the insinuations possible against  Mr. Davis,  but he toned down his remarks when he heard others praising him.  Mr. Sullivan,  with whom honorable senators are well acquainted, for he comes to Canberra frequently on the business of the Manufacturers' Association of New South Wales, believes that  Mr. Davis  is the greatest man Australia has seen. Yet, with all these advantages,  Mr. Davis  has no pronounced political ideas at all. Another great thing that he has done is to give to a band of young Australian scientists, men of university distinction, the opportunity to go all over the world and see what is being done scientifically everywhere.  Mr. Davis  has a genius not only for industrial organization, but also' for discovering remarkable young men. This gifted man, somewhat advanced in years, has behind him a body of young Australian scientists. In his genius, with their help, I believe lies the only possible chance of successfully developing the industry of extracting oil from shale in Australia. 
Time, we hope, will reveal . all things. 
I am telling the honorable senator what has happened in the gelatine industry, which can be truthfully said to be without its equal anywhere in the world. I do not say that in any boastful way as an Australian. I do not believe that Australia possesses everything of the world's best, but I do assert that Australia leads the world in the gelatine industry. 
During the progress of a similar bill through the New South Wales Parliament the Leader of the Labour party in that State,  Mr. J;  T. Lang, opposed it at every stage. I cannot understand why he should do so because, after all, it represents an attempt to develop a great industry and create work. It is an endeavour to make Australia self-contained, and that, we are told, is one of the main planks of the Labour party's platform. 
Yes, but when it comes to actual practice, the Labour party does not take the opportunity to put it into effect. I should not have minded if  Mr. Lang  had objected merely to the form or wording of the agreement, but he attacked it with great venom, ' as the Leader of the Opposition here has done. The honorable senator, although he is willing at this late hour to concede that  Mr. Davis  is a capable man, still attributes to him nothing but mercenary motives.  Mr. Lang  attacked  Mr. Davis  from every aspect. He had not a good word to say about him; but, after all, he seldom has a good word to say of anybody. We should all be pleased to hear the inmost thoughts of the Leader of the Opposition about  Mr. Davis.  What was the reason for  Mr. Lang's  opposition to the bill? 
When it was being discussed in the House of Representatives the opposition to it was led, not by the official Opposition, but by the members of the Lang group, probably because they knew that  Mr. Lang,  as Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales Parliament, and Leader of the Labour party in the State, had said " By hook or by crook we will damn this thing, and damn everybody associated with it." One of  Mr. Lang's  motives was the placation of the northern miners, because the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in his State comes from the north, and so does a big section of the Labour representation in the State Parliament. He was willing to sacrifice the western miners, including the western shale miners, for the northern miners, because of the greater voting power possessed by the latter. The report of the debate shows that  Mr. Lang  was mean enough to ask what  Mr. Davis  was to get out of this, and to suggest that he was ' after a knighthood. That was a paltry allegation to make. The fact is that, if any man should receive honour in this country, it is  Mr. Davis.  If  Mr. Davis  has the objective which  Mr. Lang  suggests, lie is paying very dearly for it, because it is costing him nearly £200,000 to achieve it. 
 Mr. Davis  has no price; he is a good Austalian and a patriot prepared to do all he can for Australia. I know him slightly, and I know that he is willing to sacrifice everything for the development of his country. The members of the Opposition in this chamber cannot understand that attitude, although they speak of martyrs in their own ranks, and proclaim that trade unionists are willing to go into the battlefield of industry and lay down their lives for liberty. Still, they cannot believe that another man, with a genius for the organization of industry, is willing to sacrifice some thousands of- pounds of his- own money, and much of his valuable time, in the interests of his country. Patriotism is not the prerogative of any one section of the public. It is found among the lowly and among the high, and  Mr. Davis  certainly possesses it in a remarkable degree.  Mr. Lang  knows full well that he is a man of high calibre, yet he places him in the public pillory, without giving him an opportunity to defend, himself. All I can say - and I hate to bring this up - is that we know the history of oil, and particularly of the Standard Oil Company of America. Upton Sinclair, an author of whom the Leader of the Opposition thinks a great deal, tells the story in his book,  Oil,  and other publications. Every one should read these books and other similar works, such as  Health, Wealth and Happiness of Mankind,  by H. G-. Wells, in order to understand the ramifications of the Standard Oil Company, and how it has gripped not only men of wealth, but all men in the industrial movement. According to that great socialistic author, Upton Sinclair, everybody was in that great pool; none apparently stood outside the pale. Wells makes a somewhat similar revelation. The type of opposition which ls offered to the Newnes project to-day seems to me to be tainted by the great and powerful oil interests that have dominated the industry for almost three-quarters of a century. Here is a chance for Australia to_ experiment in something which, if successful, will bring great rewards. 
I- would not mind if the Leader of the Opposition, and  Mr. Lang,  had said, " I do not believe in the agreement, or its methods," and had stuck to that attitude, because they are supposed to believe in nationalization, although history shows that in New South Wales it has been a failure. Lf they had confined their criticism to the form of the agreement, 1 should have said there might be something in their opposition; but it has been so venomous and so unnecessary that one is compelled to look for ulterior motives. The members of the Opposition in this chamber have indicated that they are in favour of nationalization, and suggest that this should be a national experiment - that it should, be socialized. 
This gigantic undertaking must be carried on economically, for it is to be an essential of the well-being of Australia. I advise the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues who are so pronouncedly in favour of socialistic enterprise, to examine the record of their own State of Queensland, which resembles a gridiron in" that, from one end to the other, it is barred with colossal failures of socialized industry. Some of those failures ' occurred, not through the lack of business ability, but through lack of honesty and integrity on the part of the very men who preach socialism. We cannot afford to allow an industry that for 70 years has been an economic failure to be placed in the hands of socialistic experimenters, and risk another failure.  Mr. Lang  had an opportunity in New South Wales to socialize the industry when the investigation carried out by the committee appointed by the Scullin Government was almost concluded. He was asked by  Mr. Davies,  ex-secretary of the Western Miners Association, who was also secretary of the Coal and Shale Development Committee, to nationalize the shale oil industry, but he turned the request down. Now, when an attempt is being made to put the enterprise on a sound footing, he is using every means at his disposal to  defeat the project. The proposal was attacked in the House of Representatives, where the Scullin group, known as the moderates, were overshadowed by the Lang-Beasley group, who took charge of the business, and delivered almost every speech in opposition to the measure. 
Indirectly, the honorable senator is. He may have spoken against  Mr. Lang  once or twice, but the policy of his party is influenced and largely determined by  Mr. Lang  and his followers. What happened in the House of Representatives shows clearly how the whole federal Labour movement is dominated by the Lang group.  Mr. Lang,  who had such a disastrous reign in New South Wales, and whose policy may be repugnant to a man like the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, is nevertheless able to dominate the Australian Labour movement, and if members of the Opposition were honest they would admit it. Not one of the moderates in the Labour party had anything to say about this measure in .the House of Representatives. The attack came from the Lang group, whose tactics are dictated by  Mr. Lang.  I am sorry that the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  was not present, but the  Deputy  Leader  (Mr. Forde),  who was nominally in charge of the Opposition, was completely dumb. 
I realize that there is not likely to be much opposition to this measure in the Senate. Perhaps there will not even be a vote on it. In the House of Representatives the official Labour party probably wanted the bill to go through in the same way. Indeed, one honorable member, who represents a section of the miners, said that he intended to vote for the measure, though he did not really believe in it. Eventually, however, he voted against it. It is obvious, of course, that he received his directions from  Mr. Lang,  who said, in effect, " remember that whatever action I take in New South Wales is 16'1 L. 1 I am always right, and do.n't you dare to let me down !" Members were instructed how they should vote, and they voted accordingly. I regret that  Mr. 
Lang's supporters in the House of Representatives and in -this chamber have seen fit to oppose a wise and constructive attempt to develop the shale oil industry in Australia. I compliment the Minister in Charge of Development  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  on having brought in this measure. Not always do I find myself in agreement with him, particularly in regard to the production of oil from coal, but on this occasion he is deserving of our commendation. Only recently  Mr. Davies,  to whom I referred a little earlier, paid a high compliment to the Minister for the wonderful work he has done in bringing this proposal to its present stage. He said that no previous Minister had done, or attempted to do, so much for the industry. Even some of my own colleagues doubt, that this enterprise will be a success, but I believe that it will be. There will be at the head of it a man who has made a success of other enterprises, and who is capable of making a success of this one. We must remember that, with the introduction of new processes, the production of oil has increased from 5 gallons to approximately 100 gallons a ton of shale.  Mr. Davis  has studied developments in this industry in other parts of the world, and has the assistance of capable experts who are familiar with the latest scientific developments. I am convinced that he will demonstrate that Australia can produce oil from shale as a commercial proposition. We must develop our oilproducing resources of all kinds. Recently  Dr. Rivett  pointed out that, although the production of oil from coal was uneconomic at the moment, Australia should watch the development of the industry in Germany, Great Britain, and other countries, so that, when the process was sufficiently improved to justify its introduction into Australia, we might be ready to take advantage of it. When the time comes, there will be a revolution in regard to fuel production in Australia. Before long, the petrol engine will be almost completely displaced by the Diesel engine, and when that occurs, and we have our own sources of fuel supply from our coal and shale deposits, we shall have solved two of our greatest problems - those associated with transport and defence. In the present scheme we have a beginning by a man wise in his day and generation. It is proposed to assist him by means of a loan of money, and even if the money be lost it does not matter very greatly, because we are embarking upon a necessary experiment. However, I hope that the enterprise will be successful. I do not care how much money  Mr. Davis  makes out of it so long as we produce the oil. Some time ago, an honorable senator, when speaking in favour of the payment of a bounty, on gold, emphasized the importance of the gold industry to Australia; but gold is as nothing compared with oil, which will constitute in the future Australia's wealth and its defence. 
I do not think so. Side by side with the development of the oil industry, there should be developed a tremendous system of storage for flow oil. Why, I ask, are our storage tanks at present all located on the seaboard in tanks built above ground, and painted so conspicuously to make excellent targets for enemy guns or aeroplanes? Why not put them underground? Eventually, when we are able to produce our own oil supplies, it will not be necessary to send millions of pounds to foreign countries for oil. 
Win or lose, this experiment will have been worth while. I am not thinking of it merely in its relation to New South Wales. I should not mind if the enterprise were to be developed in some other part of the Commonwealth; the proposal would still receive my vote and praise. As an Australian who seeks the welfare of his country, I express 'the hope that the venture will be an outstanding success, and that it will, to some extent, at any rate, help to solve our problems associated with transport and defence. 
I am not a betting man, but I should be prepared to lay a shade of odds that  Mr. Lang's  ears are burning at this moment as the result of the attack upon him by  .Senator Arkins.  Of course, I can understand the reason for the honorable senator's diatribe against  Mr. Lang.  He comes from a State where  Mr. Lang  will he very active during the forthcoming election, and he thinks that the more he attacks  Mr. Lang  the better it will be for his own chances. However, let us consider this matter apart from. the fulminations of leather-lunged lowbrows. I deny emphatically that the Labour movement is dominated by the so-called Lang group. We as a party reach our decisions according to principle, and we oppose or support a bill according to our platform and programme. Indeed, every thinking person must recognize that we are opposing this measure on principle. The person who stands to gain most from the measure is the honorable member for Macquarie  (Mr. John Lawson),  who is its most ardent supporter. If we were actuated only by political expediency, we should probably be quiet about the bill. That disposes of the assertion of  Senator Arkins  regarding the alleged domination of the Labour party by the Lang group. 
The Labour party considers that, in developing the oil resources of this country, it is essential that the Government should exercise complete control over the enterprise, in the same way as it directs the army, the navy and the air force. For years the Labour party throughout Australia has advocated the production of oil for defence purposes. What objection can he taken to  our  contention that the Newnes shale deposits should be under government control? I do not know  Mr. Davis.  He is possibly actuated by the highest of motives; but, if he is the only man in Australia  who  can make a success of the Newnes proposition, why does not the Government offer him a few thousands of pounds a year for his services, and supply the money required for the development of this field? Such a proposal would have the whole-hearted support of the Labour party. 
Possibly not, but  Mr. Davis  is held up to us as the only man who has come forward, having the necessary ability to do this job. The Commonwealth Government is to advance £334,000 of the necessary capital. The New South Wales Government will provide £166,000, and  Mr. Davis,  through his company, a similar amount. According to  Senator Arkins, Mr. Davis  will risk all of this £166,000 at Newnes, but is it not a fact that he or his representatives are trying to induce people to take up shares iu the venture? 
I accept the Minister's assurance on that point. If a thousand people wanted shares in this venture could they buy them? 
Who- are in this group? 
Whether the group be large or small, private persons are supplying only a modicum of the total capital. I contend that, as the Government is furnishing the greater part of the capital, it should have done the right thing by the country, by providing the whole of the required money and taking complete control. 
Yes. The agreement is an extraordinary document. Two governments propose to expend £500,000 of the people's money. Any expenditure for the development of our resources by the extraction of oil, whether it be from coal or from shale, should be made in the most economical way, and it is astonishing te find that the two governments interested in this venture will have no representation on the directorate of the company. 
The company is to pay 4£ per cent., but the governments run the risk of losing all of the money advanced. Obviously, they should have maintained complete control of the venture. Mentally deficient critics accuse the Labour party of being dominated by  Mr. Lang,  because the Opposition has the temerity to criticise this measure, although it is our duty to do so. Had members of the Opposition in this and the other branch of the legislature remained silent, they would have been told that they were dominated by  Mr. Lang.  The Government has acted in a belated manner, and has not served the best interests of Australia. 
In the main, this is a defence measure. For years, efforts have been made to discover 011 in Australia, and this Government has been remiss in its duty to the nation with regard to the production of oil by the development of our natural resources. We have been told that the time is not ripe for its production from coal, yet -we are now suddenly informed that the time is opportune for its production from shale by private enterprise. 
The Shale Oil Development Committee made certain recommendations, one of which was that the Government should have representation on the board of management. The Opposition favours the establishment of works for the production of oil from coal or shale, but it objects to the Government's method of leaving the undertaking to private enterprise. In Queensland, there are millions of tons of coal from which oil could be extracted. 
That is so. According to experts, oil can be produced most economically from coal, although shale yields a relatively larger quantity of oil than can be extracted from coal. 
I do not say that. In less than two years, Germany is expected to be independent of the rest of the world for its oil supplies.  Dr Rivett  has reported that for about £3,000,000, a plant could be established for the extraction of oil from coal by the Fischer-Tropsch process. 
Over £100,000,000 has been spent on defence in this country since the Great War, and for the greater part of that time a tory government has been in power. Yet this bill has been brought down in the dying hours of the present Parliament. The land to be taken up by this company is to be leased at the nominal rental of  £1  per annum. Assuming that profits result from the so-called experiment, will the Government participate in them? It is liable to lose the whole of the capital invested on behalf of the public, and, therefore, I claim that the nation is entitled to a share in any profits that may be made. I understand that the company will also have  500,000  acres of mineral leases, which will be held in reserve for future development. Both the Commonwealth and the New South Wales Governments undertake to purchase their requirements of oil from the company for the next  25  years, irrespective of further discoveries of oil. Bounty is to be paid on the output of oil, whilst excise duties are to be reduced until the  3lst  December,  1964.  The company will be exempt from all royalties up to  10,000,000  gallons annually, and from the provisions of the tax on companies. It will receive a  20  per cent, reduction of freights, and compensation in the event of flow oil being discovered. All this assistance has been offered to this private company. Further, I understand that the Government will make available the services of its experts and technicians in the establishment of the necessary plant. 
If we are to make all this assistance available to the company, including  £500,000,  win or lose, why does not the Government manage the undertaking in the interests of the nation ? There would then be no danger of the troubles that may arise as the result of this plant being under the control of private enterprise. One can easily contemplate the possibility of oil being discovered, or pro'duced from coal, in other parts of Australia in the near future. Difficulty might arise through the competition which this company would have to meet from other enterprises of a similar nature. Whilst the Labour party desires to do everything possible to provide employment for the people by the production of oil for defence purposes, it cannot let this measure pass without offering the criticism that by handing this venture' over to private enterprise the Government has failed in its duty to the nation. 

 Senator HERBERT HAYS (Tasmania) for having introduced this bill, which i* to ratify an agreement between the Commonwealth Government, the New South Wales Government and certain private interests to develop the Newnes shale deposit. I cannot share the optimism of  Senator Arkins  concerning the possibilities of the Newnes deposit, but I sincerely trust that his anticipations will be realized, and that before long substantial quantities of fuel oil will be obtained as the result of the company's operations. Huge sums of money have already been expended, a great deal of it in Tasmania, in an. endeavour to develop the shale deposits of Australia on a commercial /basis, and if those engaged in this undertaking meet with the success which some anticipate they will deserve the thanks of the whole community. The following is a report of a portion of my speech on the Estimates and budget-papers in  1926: - 
The Treasurer's speech contains a reference to prospecting for oil. I have no complaint to make regarding the money that has been expended in boring for oil in Australia. 1 think that every effort should be made to ascertain if there is flow oil in the Commonwealth. The results so far do not encourage the belief that there is: but our oil shale deposits are enormous and of immense value to the Commonwealth. Hitherto they have not been successfully exploited, because suitable retorts have not been employed, and I believe that 1 am correct in saying that no official in the employ of the  Government  has had any experience in retorting. It is of the utmost importance that this business should be developed on sound lines., because there are millions of tons of shale in both New South Wales and Tasmania, rich in oil content, which, I am sure, will one day prove of great value. 
Yes. This matter slsould.be investigated by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. lt properly comes within the province of that body. Those who have been engaged in the business for the past fifteen years have been beset by difficulties which, with scientific handling, should be solved. I hope- that something will bc done in this direction in the near future. 
At that time the Government was extending its energies in the direction of discovering flow oil in Australia; and although I said that I had no objection to expenditure being incurred in that direction, I felt that, eventually, the Government would be forced into developing  our shale deposits. At that time the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  was somewhat sceptical as to whether the extraction of oil from shale was a commercial proposition, but having in the meantime visited the Newnes deposits, he is now favorably impressed with the possibility of arriving at such a result. It is regrettable that the Minister has not inspected the Tasmanian deposits. 
That being so, it is not my intention to discuss the merits and demerits of the various seams of oil shale in Australia; but the need for a local supply of fuel oil is so great that efforts should be made to ascertain whether other Australian shales can also be worked on a commercial basis. When the Public Accounts Committee inquired into the production of fuel oil in the Commonwealth and in Papua in J 926 it visited various parts of the Commonwealth, including Tasmania. The committee, which had as its  chairman  the present Minister for the Interior  (Mr. Paterson),  reported as follows: - 
In Tasmania tlie reserves, and  probable  reserves of shale.  hig  set down at 42,000,000 tons, or 1.700,000,000 gallons of oil; the Mersey Valley representing 10,000,000 tons of actual reserves, and 27.000.000 tons of probable reserves, or 1,000,000,000 gallons of oil.  The  occurrence of  shale  in Tasmania lias been known for about 50 yen rs, and development work lias been proceeding, but in a desultory manner, for the past twenty years. Although the oil content of the Tasmanian  shale  generally palled  Tasmanite,  is not. so high as that of the New South Wa'.es shale, averaging only about 40 gallons to the ton, the deposits ave move accessible and move easily mined, and it is considered that from a commercial standpoint their development should be more favorable on account  of  the probable lower working costs. 
In these circumstances I should like to know why the Government has concentrated upon Newnes when the Public Accounts Committee, after hearing expert evidence, recommended that the Tasmanian deposits were worthy of attention. The Newnes scams are only 18 in. to 2 ft. 6 in. wide, while the Tasmanian are much wider, but the oil content of the Newnes shale is greater than that of the Tasmanian shale. All these features were considered by the Public Accounts Committee, which eventually recommended that Tasmanian shale offered the best opportunity for development on a commercial basis. 
Although the bill contains only few clauses, the agreement consists of numerous paragraphs which it is impossible for a layman to study  closely  in the limited time at our disposal. The  document has been prepared by the  Crown  Law officers and we must therefore accept it as protecting the Commonwealth Government and incidentally the taxpayers. Eighteen or twenty years ago the Tasmanian Government entered into a tentative agreement with the Commonwealth Government under which the Department of the Navy was to take the whole of the output of fuel oil obtained from Tasmanian shale over a period of ten years. The price was fixed, and a pipe line was to be constructed by the Commonwealth Government from Latrobe to Devonport. But the proposal was twice turned down by the Tasmanian Legislative Council by, I think, one vote. Greater encouragement should be given to private enterprise to develop our shale deposits, on .which hundreds of thousands of pounds have already been expended un.profitably. I intend to support the bill, but I should like to know what the Government intends to do in respect of other sha'le deposits, particularly in view of the report of the Public Accounts Committee which said that, the prospects at Latrobe were better than those at Newnes. That committee also stated: - 
But extensive and rich as are Australia's shale deposits they are by no means inexhaustible, and on a conservative estimate the amount of oil in the known deposits will suffice only to supply Commonwealth requirements, at the present rate of consumption, for approximately 2r&gt; years. 
Tt appears to tlie Committee, therefore, that these deposits, forming as they do a valuable asset, should be regarded purely as a national reserve and conserved as an insurance against the time when Australia's supplies from overseas may he threatened; a.nd the Committee unanimously recommends that, as a defence measure, steps should be taken to have the  oil-shale  deposits of Australia vested in the Commonwealth. 
The Commonwealth is' strewn with the wreckage of what would have been great industrial enterprises, bur for the destructive tactics of extreme industrialism. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator 
Collings) had a good deal to say about Newnes. Apparently his principal objection to the proposal contained in the bill is that the development of the shale oil industry is not to be .undertaken by the Government. Need I remind the honorable gentleman of the complete failure of that expensive experiment in transport that was undertaken by the Commonwealth Government many years ago - the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers? Under proper management that business might, perhaps, have been developed into an important Commonwealth asset. Unfortunately it was destroyed by the extremists of trade union organizations. 

 Senator DEIN (New South Wales &gt; [12.38].- I support the bill. No one will deny that expenditure of public money in connexion with this proposal is amply justified because the production of oil in Australia is essential not only for peacetime industries, but also for the adequate defence of the Commonwealth in time of war, when our present sources of supply might be cut off at a moment's notice. The bill is a genuine attempt by the Government to make Australia, to some extent, independent of outside sources of supply. The Minister for Mines in New South Wales, when introducing a complementary bill in the New South Wales Parliament, drew attention to this condition in the agreement - 
It is further provided in the agreement that the company shall instal at its own expense by the 1st January, 1940, all the plant necessary for the production of fuel oil suitable for the requirements of the Australian Navy. 
 It has been pointed out that earlier attempts to exploit the Newnes field were not successful. The Scullin Government some years ago made available £100,000 for this purpose, and, notwithstanding the Labour party's insistence on government control of such businesses, it made special provision that the exploitation of the Newnes shale deposits should be undertaken by private enterprise. It is also significant that when Labour governments were in power in the Commonwealth and New South Wales, there was no suggestion of joint action to nationalize this great business venture. In fact.  Mr. Lang,  the New South Wales Labour Premier, absolutely refused to assist the Scullin Labour Government. 
This agreement does not represent, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has said, an eleventh  hour proposal. When  Sir John  Cadman, representing the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, came to Australia and visited the Newnes field about three years ago, the Government endeavoured to persuade his company to exploit the deposits. After an exhaustive examination of the proposal  Sir John  Cadman informed the Government that the Anglo-Persian Oil Company could not see its way to undertake the venture. Later a representative of Imperial Chemical Industries Limited visited Australia, to make inquiries, and he, too, declined the risk on behalfof his principals. The Government then invited tenders from companies throughout the British Empire and in other countries, but not one offer was received. Realizing the urgent need for making Australia, to some extent, independent of outside sources, the Government then approached the gentleman whose name is mentioned in this agreement. Some years ago, when the affairs of Cockatoo Dock were in a serious condition, involving the Commonwealth in the loss of £50,000 a year,  Mr. Davis,  following representations from the Commonwealth Government, re-organized the business and has since made a success of it. Recently when he was asked to consider the development of the Newnes shale-field,  Mr. Davis,  again actuated by the highest possible motives, agreed to see what could be done. Naturally the Government had to offer some inducement to ensure his acceptance of its proposal. If some honorable senators consider that the concessions specified in the agreement are, perhaps, too substantial, it must be borne in mind that it is the very best agreement that could have been made in the circumstances. A great deal has been said about the probable profits of the venture. I sincerely hope that the company will make a profit. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 1.45 p.m. 

Members of the Opposition seem to be rather concerned about the profits which the company may make, but I remind them that, before there can be profits, the undertaking must be successful. Any profits that the company might make would pale into insignificance compared with the benefit which Australia would derive from the successful exploitation of these fields. There are others who think that the losses which the company is likely to incur will be too great. Probably £750,000 would have to be expended without any return before , the venture could be regarded as an utter failure; and, even then, the total expenditure could notbe regarded as lost, for in the meantime from 1,000 to 1,500 men would have been given employment at award rates. The Leader of the Opposition expressed the fear that, in time, foreign control would strangle the industry. So far as I can judge from the brief examination which I have been able to give to the agreement, that risk is small; if any agreement is watertight in that respect, the one contained in this bill is. It provides that there shall be no foreigners among the shareholders of the company or those who shall manage its affairs. There is a further provision that, with the consent of either the Gommonwealth Government or the State government, the. articles of association may be altered. Should that time arise, no government, irrespective of its political outlook, would be likely to act against what it believed to be the best interests of Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition saw something sinister in the alteration which has been made to the original bill regarding the Commonwealth's financial commitments. At the moment, no one 
Can  foresee what' will happen; but we have this assurance, that before any money was paid - and only this Parliament can authorize payments - any new contingencies would be carefully examined. The degree of adequacy cannot be determined now; we must wait for these things to happen, if they are to happen at all. 

 Senator Herbert Hays advocated the exploitation of the deposits of shale in the Latrobe district of Tasmania, where, he said, the yield would probably be about 40 gallons of oil to a ton of shale. At Newnes, 50 gallons to the ton is expected, even from the lower grades of shale, and from the better grades, 100 gallons, I f the deposits at Newnescannot be successfully exploited, the prospects of success at Latrobe are remote. It will be time enough to turn our attention to other fields when we have successfully demonstrated at Newnes that oil can be economically produced from shale. "When this bill was discussed in the House of Representatives last week, the first  speaker  on behalf of the Labour party said that his party would not oppose it. During the week-end following his speech, that honorable gentleman and others of his party visited Sydney. What happened after they left the train I do not know ; but we are all aware that, when the House of Representatives met again, the members of the Labour party unanimously opposed the bill with all the vigour at their command. I had hoped that the Leader of the Opposition would explain that mysterious change of front. The altered outlook of the Opposition seems to confirm what I said yesterday, namely, that the New South Wales section dominates the Labour party throughout Australia. Its members were instructed, in language which could not be mistaken, that they must oppose the bill. The necessity to preserve unity in the party seemed to be sufficient to induce Labour members from other States to follow the New South Wales lead. 
I do not claim that the agreement is perfect; but it is the best that could be obtained, and it is certainly worth a trial. I sincerely hope that when, after a reasonable time has  elapsed, we look back on the passing of this measure, we stall be able to say that it was one of the most constructive and beneficial pieces of legislation that has been enacted for many years. 
 I regret that the agreement was not placed in the hands . of honorable senators a little earlier, so that they might have had an opportunity to consider its provisions before discussing the bill. My remarks will be brief, for the further reason that I have only a limited knowledge of the process of extracting oil from shale. I am of the opinion, however, that the agreement will prove to be of great value to Australia. The Senate is supposed to be a States' house; and therefore we should consider this bill, and, indeed, all matters which come before us, solely in the interests of Australia as a whole. Australia's dependence on fuel oil is so great that we cannot afford to quibble about details. This is not the first occasion on which a. grant has been made by the Commonwealth Parliament to assist the mining industry. Honorable senators wil] remember that some years ago a substantial grant for that purpose was made to Western Australia. It is true that the money which was advanced was all repaid; but the fact remains that the provision of the money was helpful to Australia as a whole. If at that time it was thought necessary to make a grant to assist the gold-mining industry, surely a grant to assist in the production of oil and petrol is fully -justified now. If gold is a precious metal, it may well be said that petrol is liquid gold. 
-- It is true that the money was repaid; but it was, nevertheless, a grant from the Commonwealth Parliament. There are some in the community who fear that oil cannot be produced from, shale on an economically sound basis. That was the opinion expressed by a prominent business man in South Australia who is intimately connected with many of the biggest industries in the Commonwealth, when I discussed this subject with him recently. I asked him whether he would say that oil could not be produced at a profit from shale, and he replied that he would not say that. In my opinion, the obtaining of oil fuel in Australia' is so important that we must have regard to value, rather than to price. 
The Opposition objects to the proposal contained in this bill on the further ground that the concern will not be controlled as a State enterprise. That very fact adds to  it3  value in my opinion, for I believe that governments should govern, not trade. It is astonishing to hear honorable senators from Queensland advocating State control, for if there is one State in the Commonwealth that has suffered from State control of industry, it is Queensland. That State has had a wonderful experience of government control ! 
I challenge the Leader of the Opposition to give one instance of government control that has proved successful. 
I refer the honorable senator to the experience of Queensland with govern.me!,tcontrolled sheep stations. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.And the enterprise almost broke the State. One South Australian benefited considerably from those cattle stations. We have also heard a good deal from the Opposition of the danger of influential foreign oil companies getting control of this industry. 
I do not think so. In my opinion, the talk we hear of the influence of overseas oil companies on our oil supplies is so much bunkum. 
I have in mind particularly the accusation that when indications of oil appeared in a bore at Roma, Queensland, some one dropped a tool down the bore. In regard to the alleged influence of foreign oil companies, I cite the experience in connexion with a bore which waa put down in South Australia in the search for oil. Many reputable persons affirm that oil was found there. It was alleged that American oil companies had been too clever for them, and took control, and that, for that reason, the bore is sealed down to-day. At the present time, that bore is throwing up daily 500,000 gallons of water, and I fail to understand how the quantity of oil lying at the bottom of the well can be known. The development of Newnes will be the means of providing employment. If only 100 men were to be employed on this  project,  that would be sufficient reason for me to support it. I hope that if this venture proves successful the Government will not confine its attention to New South Wales, but will extend its support to similar undertakings in other States where shale deposits exist. Whilst South Australia has no shale deposits, it possesses wonderful deposits of brown coal, the development of which would be of great benefit to Australia. Although a very large sum of money is involved in this proposal, I believe that the production .of oil in this country is so important that we are justified in taking a risk for the. sake of having the industry established in the Commonwealth. 

 Senator UPPILL (South Australia;  [2.1]. - 1  am not quite so enthusiastic about this proposal as are some of my colleagues, particularly  Senator Arkins.  At the same time, however, I commend the Government on having made a thorough investigation into the processes of extracting oil from shale and coal. Nevertheless, when we realize that we are likely to produce only about  4  per cent, of our oil requirements through this undertaking it will be generally agreed that, at this stage at ally rate, this proposal is merely an experiment, and, in my opinion, an altogether too costly one. The matter of the extraction of oil from shale and coal has been before the Commonwealth. Government for about twenty years, and in view of that fact, I maintain that if there were any 'possibility of success in this direction some private company would long ago have undertaken the enterprise and had it well established by now. Under this agreement we risk losing a considerable amount of money annually for about twenty years. In respect of this commitment, the bill is similar to many by which the Government is assisting primary and secondary industries to-day. If it could be definitely shown that through the development of Newnes, we could meet substantially our defence requirements, I would have no particular objection to the agreement. Because of the vast distances to be covered in this country, we sha ll still have to face the problem of transporting this oil, should it be successfully produced at Newnes, to the various points where it will be required in time of war. In view of the fact that we can import petrol at a cost of approximately  5$d.  a gallon, E believe it would be better to expend the money, which it, is now proposed to devote to this proposal, in establishing petrol storage depots at strategic points throughout the Commonwealth. I repeat that we are spending too much money on what is, at this stage, merely an experiment, when we should be establishing storage depots in readiness for a time of national emergency, while, at the same time, carrying out experiments in the extraction of oil from shale and coal. Furthermore, we are faced with the possibility that. at any time flow oil may be discovered in Australia. In that event, we would have no possible chance of retreating from our position under this contract, by which we shall be bound for the next twentyseven years. Then again, it is within the realms of possibility that science may discover other means of motive power. For the reasons which I have given, I feel that this bill will commit us to too great a liability in respect of what I can only regard as an experiment. 
.- I cannot feel at all enthusiastic about this agreement. If we are to look at it purely from the defence point of view something can certainly be said in favour of it,, but judging it on the strictly commercial or business basis, I agree entirely with the statements of honorable senators from Now South Wales that the contract reveals  Mr. Davis  as a good business man. Every provision in this agreement is in favour of the company, and to the disadvantage of the 
Commonwealth Government or the Government of New South Wales. Paragraph 13 of the schedule, for instance, provides that if the present customs duty or excise duty on petrol be reduced, the company shall receive a bounty on the petrol it produces, equivalent to the loss it suffers in this respect. In view of that, what chance is there of the price of petrol being reduced during the twentyseven years of the currency of this agreement? Under this provision, the Government would be hit in two ways: first, by the reduction of either the customs duty or the excise duty; and, secondly, by being obliged to pay a bounty equivalent to the amount of lossresulting from such reduction. That is all right from the point of view of the company, but it is very disadvantageous from the point of view of hundreds of thousands of petrol users. We find also that the cracking plant and any other machinery required by the company, which cannot be manufactured in Australia, is to be admitted free of duty. I agree with that provision, but I recall that when senators from Tasmania endeavoured to have a similar concession applied to certain machinery required in that State, they were unsuccessful, although that machinery could not be manufactured in any part of the British Empire. Certainly the Government has since relented, but a tremendous fuss was made when senators from Tasmania first sought this concession. The agreement also extends a remarkable measure of preference on the part of the Commonwealth Government and the Government of New South Wales to petrol produced by this company. What chance will any other company which may succeed in producing oil in this country have of obtaining orders from these two governments? Under the agreement, these governments are committed to buy their supplies of petrol from this company, subject to satisfactory quality and price. Thus, the Newnes Company will enjoy a monopoly of the supply of petrol to the Commonwealth Government and the Government of New South Wales so far as they are able to supply. I also point out that in  respect  of its depreciation provisions, this agreement is unlike any other comparable agreement in existence in 
Australia. The rates of depreciation are to be those set out in the bill and by reason of this fact, the company would also enjoy a privilege in respect of taxation. 
The principal point to which I draw the attention of honorable senators is the alteration effected to clause 7. As originally drafted, it set out clearly the exact amount of the liability of the Commonwealth Government, but as a result of the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives, a blank cheque is given to this Government and' successive governments for the next 27 years. 
No amount is stated in the bill. The figures which appeared in the original measure when it was introduced in another place were taken out by the amendment to clause 7. 
I think so, because in paragraph 24 of the schedule we find that  Mr. Davis  has been very careful in limiting his liabilities. 
Originally clause 7 read - 
There shall be payable out of the Consolidated Revenue fund, which is hereby appropriated accordingly, the sum of £334,000 for the purpose of meeting the liabilities of the Commonwealth arising under the agreement. 
At the instance of the Government that clause was amended in the House of Representatives to read - 
There shall be payable out of the Consolidated Revenue fund, which is hereby appropriated accordingly, such sums as are necessary for the purpose of meeting the liabilities of the Commonwealth arising under or out of the agreement. 
Thus, we are asked to give a blank cheque. 
To whatever governments may happen to- be in office during the currency of the agreement. 
No; under this measure we are appropriating an unstated amount in order to enable the government of the day to meet its liabilities under this agreement. That appropriation will never be referred back to Parliament. Paragraph 24 of the agreement reads - 
If, within the period ending on the 3lst December, 1959, petrol is produced from Australian flow oil to an extent that it is impossible for the company, as a result of such production to operate except at a loss, and if, at that time, the company is not in default under this agreement or the deeds of covenant and charge hereinbefore referred to, the Commonwealth and the State shall favorably consider granting adequate relief to the company. 
Those words are very vague; they might mean anything or nothing. That clause, I suggest, should he struck out altogether. 
None whatever. What does it mean? If the company has a- good case it is perfectly entitled to put it before the government of the day. If it means anything at all, it is all in favour of the company and against the Government. We have also to consider the matter of the hydrogenation of coal. Important developments can be expected in this respect within the next few years. I do not agree with the contention of the Leader of the Opposition that the works at Billingham-on-Tees have proved a success financially. We know that economically that undertaking has been a dismal failure. But other processes in which coal will be used as the primary factor in the production of petrol will, no doubt, be developed successfully during the next 20 years. Thus there is no reason why we should be tied up to buy all the petrol this company can supply and at the same time prevent any other company from supplying petrol to this Government and the Government of New South Wales. Another point I raise is that the two governments will supply three-quarters of the company's capital, hut will have no representation on the directorate. lt seems extraordinary to me that this Government has allowed itself to be placed in such a position without a government representative on the hoard. The company will have an opportunity to fix up its' accounts in such a way that, for many years, it may be impossible for this Government to obtain, more than a small return on its money, even if it gets that. . Yet nothing can be done, because neither the Commonwealth nor the State will have representation on the board, and the accounts can he presented in any way which the company deems advisable. The books certainly will be subject to investigation, but they have not to be audited by the Auditor-General. The company must simply make them available for inspection if required by him. 
I do not think so, because there is no provision for auditing them. 
He can inspect the books, but that is not to say that he will report on them, although a report may follow. His report will, however, carry no weight, because under this hill he has no standing and no authority to do anything further. 
What action could the Government take? I do not intend to oppose the second reading, because, for the sake of defence, it is necessary to make experiments with a view to obtaining some security in our petrol supplies, but I repeat that, so far as this agreement is concerned, it is one-sided, being entirely in favour of the company which is making it, whilst it does not safeguard the interests of the Federal Government. Under the present circumstances, however, I reluctantly support the second, reading. 
 I have listened to  Senator Grant's  speech with a good deal of interest; he has certainly made out a case that shows that the Commonwealth is getting a very poor business deal in the agreement which we are being asked to confirm to-day. I am satisfied that the Senate should not, pass the measure with so little consideration at this late stage of the session. 
There is no doubt that the agreement throws a heavy financial responsibility upon the Commonwealth, whilst it also involves a big loss of revenue to the Treasury - a loss which will, I think, result in maintaining the present high price of petrol for the whole currency of the agreement. If the agreement be ratified, it is very unlikely that the motoring public of Australia, and those who use motor spirit for transport and production, will receive any relief in regard to its price during the next 20 years. I do not know what extra burden, beyond that shown in the agreement, may be thrown upon the Common weal th Treasury by the alteration that was made in the bill last night in the House of Representatives. As a matter of fact I prepared my brief remarks on the subject from the bill as it waa introduced in the other chamber, but it has reached us to-day with the most important clause, that dealing with finance, entirely altered. Instead of the Commonwealth being liable, as it was yesterday, to find £334,000 as well as to shoulder certain other tentative responsibilities, tlie bill now provides that " there shall be payable out of the consolidated revenue fund, which is hereby appropriated accordingly, such sums as are necessary for the purpose of meeting the liabilities of the Commonwealth arising under or out of the agreement ". That clause has very properly been described by  Senator Grant  as giving a blank cheque to the Government. Parliament will have no say whatever in filling in the amount. However, under the agreement, National Oil Proprietary Limited is to find £166,667 of capital, the Commonwealth Government is to find from ' revenue immediately £334,000 of debenture capital for the company, and the Government of the State of New South Wales is similarly to find £166,000 of debenture capital, all at 4£ per cent, interest. The Commonwealth Government and the Government of New South Wales are, therefore, finding threequarters of the capital for this enterprise. 
Yet, as  Senator Grant  rightly interjects, the Commonwealth Government will have no say in it. Despite the recommendations made on the subject by the Public Accounts Committee and by the Newnes Investigation Committee, to which I shall refer later, the Commonwealth is to have no control, not even one director. ' Both those bodies recommended that the Commonwealth, if it gave assistance, should have substantial representation on the directorate of any company that might be formed. The Commonwealth and the State are to find so large a proportion of the capital and yet neither of them is to have the right to appoint a director or directors to control the expenditure of these large sums of public funds. That is a Haw in the bill, and should be amended. If the contract is carried to its conclusion the company will have found only os. in the £1 of the total capital, yet its directors will have the entire control of the expenditure of the money, including the fixing of remuneration and other charges. lt is unwise to ask the Commonwealth to find such a huge amount of government money for so speculative a purpose, or to permit the expenditure of £500,000 of government money, State and Commonwealth, to pass entirely out of its control. In the House of Representatives yesterday I heard  Mr. Nairn,  the honorable member for Perth, who is a solicitor, expose many of the legal weaknesses and loosenesses of the agreement and he convinced me that we should be most unwise tn approve this loosely-drawn agreement in its present form, without further safeguards for the Commonwealth. 
I was unable to obtain a seat for the duration of the debate. I simply listened to a part of it, and did not know when I went there that  Mr. Nairn  was going to speak. I draw attention to paragraph 24 of the agreement, which provides that if, within the period ending 31st December, 1959, which is twenty years from the commencement of the operations of the company, " petrol is produced from Australian flow oil to the extent that it is impossible for the company, as the result of such production, to operate except at a loss, the Commonwealth and the State shall .favorably consider granting adequate relief to the company ". That is certainly most favorable to the company, and pays no regard to the interests of the Commonwealth and the State of New South "Wales, which between them will have already found three-fourths of the capital of the company and, so far as I know, will also have found the land which the company is to lease. It is not quite clear to me to whom the lease at Newnes and the plant already there belong. Apart from that, however, this paragraph places upon the Commonwealth a responsibility which, it seems to me, may land it in severe financial loss to an unlimited amount. That paragraph should, I think, be altered, and the liability of the Commonwealth and the State of New South Wales more clearly defined, if they are to accept any liability at all. I should like to know what the Government would consider adequate relief to the company in the circumstances contemplated by that paragraph. I shall he pleased if the Minister will indicate his valued opinion as to what our liability is under that paragraph of the agreement. 
The Government will also lose the petrol tax of 7d. a gallon, plus the primage upon the oil products of Newnes. This, I think, is estimated to cost us £250,000 a year, so that, even if the scheme is a success, the loss to the Commonwealth will still be heavy. Incidentally, that loss will be reflected on the States in connexion with the grants to them in aid of roads. One of the main objections, in my opinion, is that the agreement will keep up the price of petrol to motorists, and be a tax on transport and production for the next twenty years at any rate. I know that, from a national  stand-point, it  is essential that Australia should be able to produce its own petrol, particularly for use in time of emergency. If the Government had accepted the recommendation of the Joint .Committee of Public Accounts in regard to developing and reserving these deposits for defence purposes solely, I should certainly have supported the measure wholeheartedly. 
I know; but it seems to me that the sale of this petrol,, the supply of which is estimated to meet the full requirements of Australia for only 25 years, may actually, under ordinary and normal conditions, weaken our defence reserves, should a time of war or other emergency unfortunately arise. From the stand-point of defence, the Public Accounts Committee in 1926 recommended that a nucleus unit should be established at Newnes to be in readiness as a national reserve in case of emergency. This appears in its second report on shale oil and power alcohol published on the 23rd February, 1926, which is a long while ago. Nothing has been done in the meantime. Whilst I think the course being followed is not the wisest or best possible, I commend the Minister for Development, who has certainly been a success in his office, for having lifted the development of Newnes into the realm of practical politics, and for doing something, if not exactly in the way that I think best. In this report of the committee then? is a good deal of correspondence, which I do not wish to quote in full, but it shows in 1925 that the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr. Bruce,  made inquiries as to what suggestions the committee could make with the object of ensuring the continuance of the industry " in any way which does not involve the making of monetary advances by the Commonwealth Government to a private firm". Honorable senators will, therefore, see that even at that stage the then Prime Minister was anxious to assist in the development of Newnes, but not in such a way as to involve the granting of monetary advances to a company as this bill proposes. This is only another of the many occasions on which I have had to commend the ideas of that great publicist and statesman, as compared with some that are being put into operation to-day.  Mr. Bruce,  as I say, particularly asked how the development of Newnes and the continuation of the industry could, be ensured in a way which would not involve the making of monetary advances by the Commonwealth Government to a private firm. He wished to avoid the procedure which is laid down in this agreement. He wished, as I do, to see the oil resources of this country developed. The committee made a lengthy reply from which I desire briefly to quote - 
Although our previous correspondence has referred specifically to the shale oil works at Newnes, the committee recognized, from the outset of its deliberations, that any further governmental assistance accorded the industry must be available to all who are making bona fide efforts to produce oil from' our shales. My committee has been unable, however, to arrive at a unanimous decision as to the best means by which such assistance should be granted. I therefore submit for your information the following alternative proposals, any one of which, it is considered, will offer a solution of the problem. 
The committee then proceeded to submit the following four proposals: - 
The Commonwealth Government should, as soon as possible, make available a sum of money - not less than £100,000 - for the encouragement, assistance, and development of the shale oil industry for the purpose of our national defence. This money should be advanced to applicants only after thorough examination of claims submitted, and be repayable on suitable term under a mortgage or lien to be taken over the applicant's assets and the results of his operations. In view of the special circumstances surrounding the Newnes proposition, a sufficient portion of this sum should be immediately made available, under the conditions indicated, to enable the mine to be put in order, the plant reconditioned, and the works generally brought to a' production basis. Care should be taken that operations are so conducted that the value of the works from a defence standpoint is not lessened. It might here be mentioned that out of the sum of £270,000 appropriated by the Shale Oil Bounty Act 1917-1923 for the payment of bounty on shale oil produced in Australia an amount of £144,844 is still available. 
That suggestion was not adopted by the Government, and it seems that the desire of  Mr. Bruce  that any scheme should not involve an advance by the Commonwealth has not been accepted. The next two proposals were - 
Money for the above purpose could be made available under the Defence Estimates in the form of a grant, with conditions governing the operations of the various works which would ensure adequate supplies in an emergency. 
The control of the shale oil deposits in Australia could be taken over and vested in the Commonwealth Government. It might be added that the Navy Department of the United States of America holds, in reserve, large areas of oil shale. 
Although I think that most undertakings can best be conducted by private enterprise, if there is anything from which private enterprise should be excluded and the field retained entirely by the Government, it is the manufacture of munitions and the production of oil for military and other defence purposes. 
I have not lost sight of that fact. I have already commended the Minister because something is being clone for the industry under this measure, although, in my opinion, not in the best possible way. The fourth proposal was - 
The Commonwealth could acquire a controlling interest in the Newnes or other shale works by means of a partnership agreement on the lines of that entered into between the Commonwealth Government and the AngloPersian Oil Company Limited, but provision should be made for the Commonwealth to have a majority on the board of directors and to hold a majority of the shares. 
I regard it as unfortunate that the Commonwealth and State Governments, which are finding three-quarters of the money to finance this venture, are not to have a controlling interest in the company as the Joint Committee of Public Accounts recommended. That committee, after careful consideration of all the evidence submitted by a large number of witnesses, recommended, in the public interest, that provision should be made for the governments to have a majority on the board of directors, and also a majority of the shares. The Commonwealth and State Governments combined are finding a proportion of the capital which entitles them to that representation on the directorate, yet there is to be no government representative on the board, let alone a majority as recommended by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. I am not satisfiedthat the Senate should approve of this bill in its present form. After the committee had completed its investigations, it stated - 
But extensive and rich as are Australia's shale deposits they are by no means inexhaustible, and on a conservative estimate the amount of oil in the known deposits will suffice only to supply Commonwealth requirements, at the present rate of consumption, for approximately 20 years. It appears to the committee, therefore, that these deposits, forming as they do a valuable asset, should be regarded purely as a national reserve and conserved as an insurance against the time when Australia's supplies from overseas may be threatened; and the committee unanimously recommends that, as a defence measure, steps should be taken to have the oil-shale deposits of Australia vested in the Commonwealth. 
I oppose this agreement to hand over the control of so much money to a private company, because I believe that we should adopt the recommendations of the committee that the shale oil deposits should be regarded purely as a national reserve, and conserved as an insurance against the time when Australia's supplies from overseas may be threatened. 1 should like that recommendation to have been carried into effect. The committee then made the following observations: - 
To leave the development of these deposits until an emergency arises would be hazardous; research and experimental work should, therefore, be carried on to the point of production, and the works then placed on a nucleus basis in conformity with the policy alreadycontrolling the munitions factories so that, when the necessity arises-, full production could be reached without undue delay. 
That recommendation should also be adopted. The sum of £334,000, which we are asked to provide in this measure would at least be sufficient to carry out the committee's recommendations that the works be placed on a nucleus basis. The committee also stated: - 
The committee was informed in evidence that notwithstanding the large production of flow oil in the United States of America, the Navy Department of that country holds in reserve large areas of oil shale. 
The recommendation that the shale deposits should be regarded purely as a national reserve was arrived at unanimouslyby the committee, and was signed by  Mr. Paterson,  who, to-day, is one of the leading lights of the present Government. I hope that, even at this late hour, the Government will be wise enough to give effect to the committee's recommendations rather than proceed with the present measure. If it wishes to have expert guidance on this subject it has not only the reports of the Accounts Committee, but also that of the Newnes Investigation Committee, an important body representative of the Governments of the Commonwealth and New South 
Wales, which inquired into the NewnesCapertee shale oil project and presented its report on the 9th April, 1934.  Mr. Robert  W. Nelson, chartered accountant, was nominated by the Commonwealth Government and the Government of New South Wales, and acted as  chairman.  The nominees of the Commonwealth Government were -  Sir John  Butters,  Sir Herbert  Gepp, and  Mr. Alex  J. Gibson; the nominees of the New South Wales Government were  Mr. V.  J.F. Brain,  Mr. E.  J. Kenny and  Mr. Malcolm  Morrison, who, I feel sure, were men of high standing in New South Wales. 
He was an independent  chairman.  The committee made a lengthy and comprehensive report which should have been read by all honorable senators before they attempted to deal with the bill now before the Senate. The committee summarized its findings in no less than 39 conclusions. Under the heading " Marketing " the committee stated - 
In view of the Commonwealth's interest in the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, that company is considered to be the natural channel for marketing Newnes products. 
Negotiations under (a) or (b) above would be facilitated by the governments and public bodies undertaking to purchase their petrol requirements (about 2,000,000 gallons per annum in Sydney) from the company distributing Newnes products. 
It is undesirable to add to the existing organizations and facilities for distribution. 
Conclusion No. 29 was - 
The peace time requirements of the Royal Australian Navy would absorb the bulk of the output of fuel oil. Any balance might be sold in the open market or to Government Departments or alternatively utilized at the works in lieu of coal. 
The only other conclusions of the committee to which I shall refer are as follows :  - 
Based on delivery f.o.r. railway tank cars Sydney, the following prices for finished products are considered to be competitive: - 
Motor Spirit (second-grade not ethylized) .. ..11½d. gal. 
Fuel oil £ 2 13s. 6d. a ton 
These prices have been assumed in the committee's financial estimates. 
Viewing the project from a national standpoint - 
Employment would he provided for 350 persons directly and probably for an equal number indirectly. 
There would be produced annually in Australia 6,000,000 gallons of petrol from Australian raw materials. 
The peace time requirements of the Navy in fuel oil would be supplied. 
The Commonwealth and State Governments would suffer a joint net loss of revenue estimated as follows: - 

<graphic href="154332193709153_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

These figures take no credit for Unemployment Relief Taxation payable by employees, or of relief from unemployment and sustenance payments by governments. 
Against this, distinguished critics in the House of Representatives, estimate the loss of revenue at £250,000 a year. I intend to vote against the second reading of the bill, but I should like to see the Newnes deposits developed for defence purposes on the lines recommended by the Public Accounts Committee. 
I protest against the manner in which this bill has been presented to the Senate. Within twenty minutes of the measure being placed in our hands, we are expected to debate the second reading. That is not a fair way in which to treat the members of this chamber. Such methods will bring it into disrepute. This is a closely printed bill of 22 pages, and the agreement is of an intricate nature. I. do not blame the Government, for it got a raw deal from the House of Representatives, but a bill of this magnitude, with all that it implies, cannot be fully understood after a few minutes' examination. I shall consider the measure from a strictly business point of view, in order to see what justification there is for it. It seems to me that it can be justified on two main grounds - its value for defence purposes, and the fact that it will provide employment. The Government is committing the people to an expenditure of nearly £6,000,000, which sum is to be appropriated by this bill. Clause 7 appears to be an innocently worded one, but it has much significance. It provides - 
There shall be payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is hereby appropriated accordingly, such sums as are neces sary for the purpose of meeting the liabilities of the Commonwealth arising under or out of the agreement. 
The Commonwealth, in the first place, is to advance £334,000. I desire to correct the Opposition in saying that when 166,667 shares have been subscribed and allotted, and have been paid for to the amount of 5s. a share, the Commonwealth will be committed to the expenditure of £334,000. That is not so. The Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments together have to vote threefourths of the money to be advanced, but the Commonwealth Government does not have to find the whole of the £334,000 until the company has provided £166,000 in cash. Yet the Commonwealth is committed to provide eventually cash to the amount of £334,000, and it must suffer a reduction of revenue to the amount of £250,000 a year for twenty years, which amounts to £5,000,000. Therefore, Australia stands to lose this £5.334,000 if the enterprise fails. 
Of course, it is a commitment. Paragraph 24 of the agreement provides - 
If within the period endingon the 31st December,1959, petrol is produced from Australianflow oil to an extent that it isimpossible for the company as a result of such production to operate except at a loss and if at that time the company is not in default under this agreement or the deeds of covenant and charge hereinbefore referred to, the Commonwealth and the State shall favorably consider granting adequate relief to the company. 
I should say that the Commonwealth and the New South Wales Governments are banking on failure to discover flow oil in Australia. If it were found - and I hope that it will be - the Commonwealth would be committed to at least a further outlay of £166,000, for if the company was reasonably treated by the Commonwealth and State Governments, the sum of £166,000 invested by it would be refunded. 
I am not dealing with the matter from that aspect. I am merely pointing out to what extent the Government is committed by this bill. 
There are three reasons why the measure should be supported. As I have already mentioned, it can be justified on the grounds that oil is necessary for defence purposes, and that the enterprise would provide a considerable amount of employment. The third justification is that the production of oil from shale would be necessary if the supplies of flow oil became seriously depleted, as experts seem to think they may. In that event we should have to fall back on other means of producing the petrol required for internal combustion engines. To my mind, the main purpose of the- bill is to provide employment, and I am astonished to hear objection to the measure from the Opposition. The object is to provide employment for a class of men who have difficulty in taking up a new kind of joh. Coal-miners are traditionally unwilling to change their occupations. No matter what the vicissitudes of their industry may be, they do not readily leave it, to enter other avenues of employment. In Australia, as in Great Britain, the absorption of unemployed coal-miners  in other kinds of work constitutes a difficult problem. Bold steps have had to he taken in Great Britain, and, in my opinion, the Commonwealth Government has acted rightly in endeavouring by this bill to provide employment for a body of unemployed men estimated to number about  2,000. 
Viewing the matter from the aspect of defence, the maximum production from the Newnes deposits is estimated a.t  10,000,000  gallons a year., which is hardly one-fiftieth of the quantity required for Australia's needs in times of peace, let alone* the much larger quantity that would be required in a time of emergency . If the Commonwealth expended  £334.000  or, perhaps, a little more, in providing secret and protected reserve storages, each capable of holding  6,000,000  or  7,000,000  gallons, which would not become a target by bombing aeroplanes, that would be a much better business proposition than the incurring of the heavy expenditure that would be involved in increasing the production of oil from shale to the huge quantity that would be needed in an emergency. It seems to me that the chief justification for the bill is that the venture will provide a considerable amount of employment. 
It has been stated by the Opposition that this undertaking should not be handed over to private enterprise., but  1  consider that the Government has been wise in persuading private people to share in the risk involved by subscribing a quarter of the necessary capital. . 
Having decided to establish the industry, the Government has made an astute business deal with  Mr. Davis,  and is in a much better position than the gentleman who is risking  £166,000  of his own money. If there are any advantages in the agreement, they rest with the Commonwealth. Yet, as I have already indicated, my only reason for supporting the measure is that it will provide a good deal of employment. If it will give work to  2,000  coal-miners who are now idle--- 
I am now informed that  600  will be directly employed, and  2,000  indirectly engaged iu the industry. If  2,000  men will eventually be provided with employment for twenty years, the expenditure will be justified ; but I do not think that coalminers take very readily to any other class of work. "We have, however, to remember that over a period of twenty years the Commonwealth is committed to an expenditure of  £5,500,000,  and probably more, and those who do not think that such an expenditure is justified should oppose the bill. 
.-] was a member of the Public Accounts Committee which investigated the extraction of fuel oil from the shale deposits at Newnes, and also inquired into the production of power alcohol. After a lengthy inquiry, during which many experts were examined, the committee submitted its recommendations, some of which were cited by  Senator Herbert  Hays and  Senator E.  B. Johnston. Like some other honorable senators I am supporting the bill merely because it is an honest attempt on the part of the Government to afford some security to Australia in a national emergency. Personally, I do not see any possibility of the production of fuel oil from the shale at Newnes becoming an economic proposition, because the industry was thoroughly tested when the price of fuel oil in Australia was exceptionally high. Hundreds of thousands of pounds have already been expended, unsucessfully. at Newnes, where the shale seam, although rich in oil content, is narrow, which makes mining costly. . When the investigation was being conducted by the Public Accounts Committee it was stated on the most reliable authority that the plant now installed there should have been in another valley, where the plant will probably be located by those who are now to engage in this venture: 
That may overcome the disadvantage to some extent. I do not believe that this project will become a sound commercial proposition, as 1 have been informed by  Senator Plain  that the shale seams in .Scotland, where the costs of handling are much lower than in Australia, show little or no profit after working at full pressure with the assistance of a government subsidy. I believe that it would have been a much better proposition to assist in the production of power alcohol instead of risking such a large sum of money at Newnes. The Public Accounts ' Committee pointed out in its report that while shale seams remained undeveloped they could be held as a reserve against the time when supplies of fuel oil could not be' obtained from overseas. If the resources at Newnes become exhausted in 25 years - if production is expedited the period may be even shorter - this reserve will no longer be available. The production of po*wer alcohol in Australia is a totally different proposition in that it would be produced from annual crops, and, consequently, would be more economical than the development of this doubtful project which the Government is sponsoring. The production of power alcohol in substantial quantities would assist to develop hundreds of thousands of acres of land eminently suitable for the growth of those commodities that yield power alcohol, -whereas under this proposal a valuable reserve will, in time, become exhausted. When the Public Accounts Committee was conducting an inquiry into the Newnes shale deposits,  Mr. Fell  and others connected with the industry, informed  me  that, when treating the Newnes deposit, they experienced numerous industrial troubles owing to the difficulties of mining a narrow seam, and that costs in comparison with those in other countries were extraordinarily high. The quality of the shale, however, is exceptionally good. The Government is submitting this proposal to Parliament as a part of its defence scheme in order to ensure a supply of fuel oil when consignments from overseas may not be available, and that is all, I think, that can be said in its favour. In these circumstances I am reluctantly compelled to support the bill. 
 in reply  - It  may save the time of the Senate if at this stage I reply to some of the points raised by honorable senators who are supporting or opposing the bill. I have already said that the Government is submitting this proposal to Parliament with the sole object of endeavouring to provide some security against the time when supplies of imported fuel oil will not be available. The additional scientific knowledge and technique that will be gained in treating this huge deposit in the Newnes and Capertee Valleys will be of inestimable benefit to the Commonwealth. One would think from the statements by  Senator Foll  and some other honorable senators that the deposit at Newnes is the only deposit in Australia, but there are millions of tons of shale in varying quantities and qualities in different parts of the Commonwealth. We cannot visualize the possibilities in respect of shale, and, as I stated in moving the second reading of the bill, the method now proposed appears to be the most economical way to produce fuel oil in "Australia for use in  national emergency. To erect storage tanks, as suggested by  Senator Leckie,  and fill them with fuel oil would cost £602,000, and the annual hill for depreciation, loss by evaporation and interest would amount to approximately £60,000 or £70,000. Should Overseas supplies be cut off, we would then have no means of replenishing the stocks. It is most essential, therefore, to acquire, by actual experience, the method by which fuel oil can be extracted economically from shale. Even if the Newnes deposits be worked extensively our reserves will not be really depleted. It would be useless to have a reserve in the form of shale which could not be utilized should the occasion arise. The production of oil from shale has been the subject of investigation for many years and a really satisfactory method of extraction nas recently been evolved. In conducting this essential work we shall be able to determine the most economical way to extract oil from shale, and also from coal. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator E.  JJ. Johnston suggested that the undertaking should be nationalized, and the latter proceeded to read the recommendation of the Newnes Investigation Committee. I suggest that the honorable senator should have cited the latest report of the committee, a portion of which reads - 
The committee desires to emphasize its conviction that a project of this type can only be  carried  out successfully by an organization having at its command men of the widest experience in the technique and administration of the industry. So many aspects of mining, fuel technology and engineering are involved that an undertaking of necessarily small output, such as that proposed, could not afford to employ on its staff all the specialists whose assistance would be vital to success. The committee therefore considers that any company commencing operations at Newnes, while Australian in constitution, should be in close affiliation with some large overseas organizations having extensive contact with problems akin to those which will present themselves locally. Finally, the committee is of the opinion that the project cannot be successfully developed as a government enterprise, and that it should not bc proceeded with unless an organization conforming to the foregoing requirements can be interested therein, either on its own account or in conjunction with the governments on the lines contemplated in the committee's original report. 
That report was in conformity with the views of the Scullin Government when it allocated £30,000 in 1931 for the development of the oil shale industry. The sum then set apart was quite insufficient for the purpose, but most of us grow wiser as we grow older. The Scullin Government stipulated that the development of the Newnes-Capertee oil shale deposit should be undertaken by private enterprise. That is the proposal contained in this bill. I venture the opinion that if honorable senators had seen what I saw at Newnes, when the work was under Government control, they would not for a moment consider its continuance advisable as a government undertaking. 
That is so. I recall that a Labour Premier of South Australia, a friend of mine, declared that a mine which he had nationalized was more like a lying-in home than a State coal mine.  Senator Grant,  in his criticism of the measure, said he could see no hope of a reduction of the price of petrol. It is not suggested that there will be a reduction. I am afraid the honorable gentleman took a somewhat limited view of the requirements of the two Governments. The company would be unable to supply the whole of their needs because of its location. I am informed that the requirements of the navy alone amount to approximately 19,000 tons of crude oil a year. 
That is a fact, but the important thing to remember is that if the enterprise is established on sound lines, it will be functioning and available in time of need.  Senator Leckie  said that the bill would involve the Commonwealth in the loss of revenue amounting to £5,000,000 or £6,000,000. I admit that if the Government has to forgo an excise duty of 5£d. a gallon, the loss of revenue will be considerable, but the honorable gentleman's view of the fuel economy position in Australia is entirely wrong. Hitherto, much to our regret, we have failed to produce flow oil in Australia and so are dependent on overseas sources of supply. 
This being so, it is considered necessary in the interests of the Commonwealth, to encourage the establishment of this industry in Australia. There has been some criticism of the amendment made by the House of Representatives of the appropriation clause of the measure. While the alteration made may be open to criticism, the appropriation clause is identical, with corresponding provisions in other measures of a like nature. My colleague,  Senator Brennan,  has reminded me that the States Grants (Fertilizer) Bill now before the Senate makes an appropriation of revenue in the same way. No business man would enter into a covenant with two governments unless the agreement between them provided for the appropriation by Parliament of the money involved. 
I do not know, and I do not consider that the point is material to the honorable gentleman's argument- because, while it is possible to recover against the Crown, it is necessary to have the legal machinery to get the money.  Senator Leckie  pointed out that the governments would advance a large sum of money to a company with a capital of £166,000. 
-That is true. Bounty would be payable if flowoil were discovered in sufficient quantities in Australia to affect the operations of this company. But I have no doubt whatever that the people would gladly pay a substantia] amount by way of bounty to this company because of the security which the presence of flow oil would give to Australia.  Senator Herbert  Hays mentioned the possible development of the Tasmanian oil shale deposits. I remind the honorable gentleman that the petrol content of Tasmanian shale is only 30 gallons a. ton as compared with 100 gallons a ton from the Newnes shale. I am advised that it is intended to operate first on seams over 4 feet in thickness. As  Senator Foll  has pointed out, there are other seams of oil shale ranging from 6 inches to about 2 feet in thickness. 
No ; they may all be worked. We are regarding this project as an experiment, and when proper' provision has been made to ensure some security for  Anstralia  in the production of oil, we shall be able to give our attention to other kindred projects, such as the production of power alcohol mentioned by  Senator Foll,  concerning which I am not at liberty to speak, because a report on that subject isin the hands of the Government. I can, however, say of my own personal knowledge that the most likely raw material is molasses.  Senator Collings  d directed  attention to article 23. As some honorable senators are aware, an alteration of the memorandum of a company involves a tremendous amount of formality. Therefore&gt; article 23 was inserted as an additional safeguard. That appeared to cause some concern to the Leader of the Opposition. The provision relating to the production of statements of accounts is, I think, an ample safeguard for the debenture holders. It has also been urged that the  Government  should have representation on the directorate. That argument can hardly be sustained, because the two governments concerned are advancing money by way o. loan to a company with a capital of £166,000. Naturally, the company would not desire government interference with its management, but the agreement give? ample protection to the debenture holders, the governments' advance being a first charge on all the assets of the company. 
That may be true; but does the honorable gentleman think that this company' which will be under the management of men of proved business capacity, is likely to lose its capital? They are risking a considerable sum of money because they wish, in the interests of Australia, to establish this industry. Ever since 1931, we have been attempting to induce private enterprise to develop our oil shale deposits. Some time ago, we had an  offer  to work the Newnes field for a period of 20 years, but, whilst the organization had good backing, that proposal was not proceeded with. At last we have succeeded in interesting  Mr. Davis  and his brother, as well as two other gentlemen, and we are confident that their efforts will be crowned with success. 
Question put - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
[3.39].- There are five bills dealing only with the granting of superannuation rights to certain employees of the Commonwealth. I ask the leave of the Senate to make one second-reading speech to cover all of them. That would not debar any honorable senator from expressing his views on the individual bills.  [Leave granted.] 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The five bills now before the Senate are designed to carry into effect, so far as legislation by Parliament is necessary, the promise of the Government to grant superannuation and furlough rights to officers of certain authorities under the Commonwealth. These authorities are the War Service Homes Commission, the Repatriation Commission, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and the High Commissioner. For the sake of convenience, I shall refer to them as Commonwealth authorities. 
The provisions of the Superannuation Act of 1922 were limited to persons permanently employed in the Commonwealth Public Service. There are, however, many persons in the employ of Commonwealth authorities who, whilst not " permanent officers " in the strict technical sense, have been employed by the Commonwealth for a considerable number of years. The Government has decided to grant superannuation and furlough rights to as many of these officers as possible. The superannuation rights of Commonwealth public servants are set out in the Superannuation Act 1922- 1934. That act contains a definition of the class of employee who is to enjoy superannuation rights, and it may be thought that the proposal of the Government could be given effect by a simple amendment of the definition of " employee " contained therein. The matter cannot be disposed of quite so easily as that. The employees of the authorities mentioned are not governed by uniform conditions, and it would be difficult to frame a definition which would cover all the employees whom the Government desires to benefit. After much consideration, it has been decided that the most convenient method for determining the officers who are to be regarded as "employees" for the purposes of the Superannuation Act is the publication of a. list of those officers in the Commonwealth  Gazette.  The four authorities concerned are to recommend to the appropriate Minister the officers who should be deemed to be " employees " within the meaning of section 4 of the Superannuation Act. The Minister will then direct, by notice published in the  Gazette,  that the officers so recommended are to be deemed " employees " ; and those officers will thereupon be brought within the scope of the Superannuation Act. Provisions to this effect are contained in the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Bill, the War Service Homes Bill, the Science and Industry Research Bill and the High Commissioner Bill. 
It is deemed desirable that the conditions of employment of the officers concerned should, where necessary, be given some stability. Employment under the Repatriation Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research is already governed by regulations under the -respective acts affecting those authorities. It is otherwise, however, in respect of employees of the War Service Homes Commission and the High Commissioner's Office. Amendments are, therefore, to be made in the War Service Homes Act and the High Commissioner Act to permit of the making of regulations setting out the conditions of employment of officers appointed under those acts. 
The provisions thus far referred to look only  to  the future. But there are officers who have been employed by the several Commonwealth authorities for many years. These officers have, by reason of their long service, some claim for special consideration over and above that to be accorded to officers who will be appointed after the passing of this legislation. Accordingly, special  provision  is to be made for them as to medical examination and the units of pensions for which they are to contribute. 
It will be appreciated that, normally, prospective contributors for superannuation benefits should be required to be medically examined in order to ensure that they will not become a burden on the fund from which the benefits would be payable. Future appointees will be required to be examined, but it seems to be unfair to apply the requirement as to medical examination t6 officers who have been employed over a long period. At the time of their original appointment many of them could have passed a medical examination. Many of these men are returned soldiers, and time is taking its toll. The result is that some of them would probably experience great difficulty in passing the requisite examination. The bill proposes, therefore, to exempt them from the necessity of being medically examined. 
It may be argued that the admission of contributors who have not been medically, examined may prove to be a burden on the fund and would, therefore, be unfair to other contributors who have assisted in building up the fund. The force of this argument is admitted, and the Government proposes to reimburse the fund for any pension payments made in respect of any such contributor who, within seven years of his becoming a contributor, dies or is retired on the ground of invalidity or physical or mental incapacity to perform his duties. 
The other matter in respect of which officers appointed prior to the commencement of the bill will receive consideration relates to the units for which those officers are to contribute. 
It is proposed that officers who were appointed on or before the 20th November, 1922, and were not less than 30 years of age on that date should not be compelled to contribute for more than two units of pension. Such units are to be at the rates prescribed for the age of 30. In addition, they may elect to contribute for two and a half, three or four units at the rates for the age of 30. The date mentioned, namely, the 20th November, 1922, was the commencing date of the original Superannuation Act of 1922. That act contains similar provisions with regard to Commonwealth public servants who, at. the date of the. passing of the act, were over 30 years of age. Had officers of Commonwealth authorities been within the scope of the act in 1922, many of them would have bad the same privilege as was then conferred on members of the Public Service. It seems reasonable that officers of Commonwealth authorities who have been employed since 1922 should have a similar privilege, and the bill makes provision accordingly. 
The bill deals also with another matter of considerable importance. It proposes that there shall be a provident account forming part of the superannuation fund, to which employees will contribute who are not eligible, under the existing law, to contribute to the superannuation fund or who, owing to their  age, find contributions to that fund onerous. Benefits to such employees are to be payable from the proposed account. The persons who are to be contributors to the provident account are, firstly, returned soldiers appointed under subsection 8 of section84 of the Commonwealth Public Service Act who are not contributors to the superannuation fund; secondly, persons who cannot become contributors to the fund in consequence of their failure to pass the prescribed medical examination; and, lastly, employees who by reason of high age and low salary find the superannuation contributions onerous, and who elect to contribute to the account. 
The contributions of a contributor to the provident account will be at the rate of £5 per centum per annum of his annual salary - payable in fortnightly instalments. 
Upon retirement of a contributor owing to invalidity or retrenchment after ten years' service, or upon the death of a male contributor leaving a widow or children under sixteen years of age, there will be payable to him or his widow or children from the provident account - (a) the aggregate amount of his contributions to the fund plus compound interest on those contributions at 3 per cent.; and (b) an equivalent amount provided by the Commonwealth out of the Consolidated Revenue fund. 
In the event of retirement, discharge before completing ten years' service, or dismissal, the amount of the contributions plus compound interest thereon at 3 per cent. will be payable to the contributor. The like amount will be payable to the personal representatives of a deceased contributor who was unmarried or was a widower without children under the age of sixteen years. 
There is one other provision in the Superannuation Bill to which I should refer. It deals with employees who are paid in sterling as, for example, employees of the High Commissioner's office. In the case of these employees, it is proposed that, for the purposes of several calculations under the act, any reference to any amount of salary, contribution or payment is to be read as a reference to that amount in sterling. There may be gains or losses to the superannuation fund or the provident fund by reason of the application of the provisions as to sterling, but it is not intended that the fund or account should gain or lose by the reason of such application. If, therefore, the fund or account would receive amounts in excess of those it would have received but for the exchange provisions, those amounts are to be paid to the Commonwealth. If, on the contrary, the fund or account sustains any loss by reason of the exchange provisions, the Commonwealth is to recoup the fund or account the amount of the loss. 
Such, briefly, is the purport of the main provisions of the measures to give effect to the Government's proposals. It is estimated that about 1,500 officers of the various Commonwealth authorities will be brought within the scope of the Superannuation Act. The additional liability of the Commonwealth in the first year in which the proposals as to superannuation and furlough become effective will, it is anticipated, be approximately £7,500. This amount will gradually increase, and should reach a maximum in the thirtieth year thereafter. The proposals do, I submit, confer a very great privilege on a deserving body of employees of the Commonwealth, and I heartily commend the bill to the favorable consideration of honorable senators. 
.   -  The Minister was kind enough in his interesting speech to tell us that the cost would be £7,500 for the first year, and would attain its maximum in 30 years' time, but he gave no figures beyond the first year. Knowing the minimum., it would be interesting to learn what the maximum will be. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [3.53]. -  in reply  - It is impossibleto answer the honorable senator's question without an intricate actuarial calculation, because no one can tell what the number of contributors will be. The number may decrease or increase, and certainly will be variable. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bil) be now road a second time. 
I may recall that the subsidy on artificial manure came into operation in December, 1932, and that it has been of great value to our primary industries. The benefit to the primary producer ha 3 been both financial and educational. The value of artificial fertilizers has been brought home to farmers by means of this assistance, particularly in the improvement of pastures, and the ultimate result must be a general improvement of the productive capacity of our farming area? and of the quality of our products. When the subsidy was first introduced it was paid at the rate of 15s. a ton, and this rate was continued on ali fertilizers used up to the 30th June, 1936. For the year ended the 30th June, 1937, the rate was fixed at 10s. a ton, and for the year ending the 30th June, 193S, which is covered by this bill, the same rate of subsidy will apply, subject to the proviso that, the subsidy will not be paid on any quantity over 20 tons used by one individual. In the first year approximately £245,000 was paid out in subsidy and in the second year £350,000. The expenditure for the third year is estimated to be £438,000 and for the fourth year the estimate is £326,000. For the current year it is estimated that £250,000 will be required. 
The encouragement of farmers in the use of fertilizer has had benefits both direct and indirect. When the scheme was first introduced no plant in Australia for the manufacture of fertilizer was working up to its full capacity. The stimulation of sales resulting from the bounty has caused a considerable expansion of output, with a corresponding increase of employment and reduction of overhead costs. Since the subsidy was first introduced the price of superphosphate; which is the principal fertilizer used, has been reduced by approximately £1 a ton. The quantity of fertilizers on which subsidy has been paid has increased from 326,000 tons in the first year to approximately 650,000 tons in the year ended the 30th June, 1937. It is not possible to measure the value of this increase to Australia in pounds, shillings and pence, but it has certainly been a valuable contribution to our national economy. In all the circumstances the Government has deemed it wise to continue the subsidy for another year. In doing so, it has had regard to one new fact : The man who uses large quantities of fertilizers is not now in need of the subsidy on the total quantity used, either as a financial contribution or for the purpose of demonstrating the value of artificial fertilizers, and its effect on production. The Government has, therefore, decided to limit the quantity on which subsidy will be paid to 20 tons in the case of each individual. The estimated saving on this account is approximately £50,000. Another minor new point introduced this year is that the subsidy may be paid to approved organizations, such as research bodies and relief committees, which purchase fertilizers and distribute them to farmers for use on  demonstrational  plots or to producers who are in distress as the result of floods, fires, or other calamities. Under the previous acts it was not possible to pay the subsidy to such organizations. It is considered that encouragement of the use of fertilizers for these  purposes is justifiable and provisionhas been made accordingly in the bill. The principle of the measure is quite familiar to honorable senators. It provides merely for an extension of what has been done in past years. 
 I am very glad that the Government is continuing the fertilizer subsidy for another year. I was hoping, however, that the Minister would have told us that this subsidy was to be a part of the permanent policy of the Government. I trust that this benefit will not be withheld from the primary producers after the expiration of the  period specified in the bill. The fertilizer subsidy has been of great value, not only to the settlers concerned, but also to Australia as a whole. The encouragement by this means of the use of large quantities of fertilizers, not only on pastoral properties but also in the production of oats and hay, on orchards and sugar-cane plantations, and by primary producers generally, has certainly had a high educational value. It has enabled primary producers to obtain greater production from their properties and has assisted many struggling men who previously experienced difficulty, particularly in poor seasons, in obtaining supplies of fertilizers. I regret that last year the Government found it necessary to reduce the subsidy from 15s. to 10s. a ton. Following that action, I received many protests from primary producers' organizations and from the Wheatgrowers Union in Western Australia.I would have been more pleased if the subsidy had been restored to the original rate. I do not feel happy about the limitation of the payment of the subsidy to 20 tons of fertilizers used by any individual, particularly in view of the fact that in the past it was paid in respect of all fertilizers used. This limitation is a mistake; we should encourage our primary producers to use all the fertilizers they can. However, the die has been cast, and the Government must take the responsibility for an action of which I disapprove. The limitation imposed in this bill has been responsible for the reduction of the amount provided for this purpose in earlier years to £250,000. I object to this reduction because it appears that the only reduction of benefits made in the budget are such as directly affect primary producers. The only other point upon which I wish to touch - I have mentioned it each year since this form of assistance has been granted to the primary producers - is that wheat-growers are still excluded from participation in the subsidy. When the subsidy was first withheld from wheat-growers, they were receiving other assistance from the Government, either by way of a bonus on production or by some other form of assistance; but, during the last couple of years they have had no direct assistance from this Parliament. I know that the inclusion of wheat-growers in the benefits to be conferred by this bill would increase the total cost to a great extent; but it seems to me that, as the day has passed when the wheat-growers are getting other forms of assistance from the Government, they should be granted this measure of relief in respect of their supplies of fertilizers which are so necessary for the successful cultivation of their crops. 
They are certainly getting the benefit of better seasons in some parts of Australia, and better prices. We are all pleased that that is so, but we must not lose sight of the fact that it has been the policy of past Commonwealth governments to urge the wheat farmers to grow more wheat. If the Government desires wheat-growers to increase their crops, it should be prepared to include them in the benefits of this legislation. The sugar-growers have been materially assisted by the Parliament and are not excluded, as are the wheat-growers, from participation in the subsidy. I again urge, as I have done for the last five years, that the wheat industry should have the advantage of this assistance. I hope that there is no significance in the statement by the Minister that the subsidy is to be continued for another year. I trust that the old rate of 15s. a ton will be restored as soon as possible. I commend the Government  for having introduced the bill, but I regret the limitation and reduction it imposes. 
I regret the necessity for this bill, but I commend the Government for having brought it down, because it will be of great benefit to market gardeners, apple and pear growers, and practically all fruit growers, many of whom have not yet felt the benefit of the improved financial conditions. Some of them, owing to prices having remained where they were during the depression, are at a disadvantage in that their costs of production have increased. The granting of the subsidy up to a maximum of 20 tons of fertilizers for each individual applicant will benefit a small pastoralist to the extent of enabling him to purchase an additional three tons. 
To my mind this measure is now about to take its correct shape. When I first spoke on this subsidy I suggested that there should be a limit to the quantity of fertilizers on which the subsidy should be paid to an individual. My only regret is that, owing to the demand for the subsidy, it now amounts to only 10s. a ton, compared with 15s. a ton previously. In my opinion, the subsidy should have remained at 15s. a ton, and the maximum quantity allowed to each producer who claimed the subsidy should be reduced. The subsidy was introduced to assist small pastoralists on country where top-dressing was in its infancy, but had proved to give improved pastures. I am glad that the greatest quantity on which the subsidy can be obtained has now been reduced to 20 tons a year, for I heard of one grazier collecting £800 in subsidy on the fertilizers used on his estate. Such a land-owner could afford to pay the ordinary price for fertilizers. If the maximum quantity allowed were reduced to 10 tons, the the subsidy fixed at 15s. a ton, this legislation would be more helpful. I agree with  Senator E.  B. Johnston that the withdrawal of the subsidy would be most regrettable. It would be far better to continue the payment at a reduced rate, rather than withdraw it entirely. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.24]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this measure is to amend the Defence Equipment Act so as to assist in carrying out the defence programme for 1937-38. In the Works Estimates of the Department of Defence, Civil Aviation Branch, £200,000 is provided for the purposes of the Empire air mail scheme. As indicated in the new Works Estimates, this sum is to he found from the amount already at credit of the Defence Equipment Trust Account. 
Clause 2 of the bill therefore contains a new section, 5a, providing that £200,000 of the balance at present standing to the credit of the Defence Equipment Account shall be paid to the credit of the Civil Aviation Trust Account. The reason for this is that the latteraccount is a more suitable one in which to record the transactions in connexion with the Empire air mail service. Clause 3 amends section 6 of the principal act so as to broaden the purposes of the Civil Aviation Trust Account. The present purposes of that account are confined to the " development of civil aviation ", and the bill is designed to widen those purposes to cover expenditure on the Empire air mail scheme. It will be seen that this bill is designed merely to adjust the functions and purposes of the Civil Aviation Account and at the same time to provide from the Defence Equipment Fund additional funds to effect those purposes. It will not make an additional appropriation of moneys. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
Honorable senators will be invited to pass four co-related bills, and I ask leave to explain all of them in my secondreading speech on this bill.  [Leave (jr anted.'] 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Validation Bill is necessary in order to ensure that the duties set out in the Customs Tariff Resolutions of the 24th June and the 7th September, 1937, will operate until after the new Parliament assembles. It provides for the validation of the duties until the 28th February, 1938. That will allow sufficient time for a schedule to be introduced in the new Parliament. The duties may then be fully debated. 
The Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Validation Bill is incidental  to the main Customs Tariff Validation Bill, and is concerned with Exchange Adjustment. It seeks to validate until the 28th February, 1938, the Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Proposals introduced into the House of Representatives on tlie 24th June last. 
The Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Validation Bill seeks to validate up to the 28th February, 1938, the collections of the duties imposed on costumes, dresses, etc., piston rings and sparking plugs of Canadian manufacture by the Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Proposals introduced into the House of Representatives on the 7th September, 1937. As in the case of the main Customs Tariff Validation Bill, this period of validation is necessary to allow sufficient time for a tariff schedule covering these goods to be introduced into the new Parliament, when the duties may he fully debated. 
The Excise Validation Bill has for its object the validation, up to the 28th February, 393S, of the collection of the excise duties on spirit for the manufacture of essences, scents and toilet preparations imposed by the Excise Tariff Proposals introduced into the House of Representatives on the 24th June, 1937. This will allow sufficient time for an excise tariff schedule covering these goods to be introduced in the new Parliament. 
I regret that the Government finds it necessary to validate certain of its tariff proposals in this way. Honorable senators may remember that when  Sir Hal  Colebatch was a member of the Senate he introduced legislation which was ultimately passed by the Senate in which provision was made that alterations to tariff schedules, if not considered in detail by Parliament within a specified time, should lapse. Had the legislation, in which that distinguished Western Australian took such great interest been observed 'by the Government, these measures would be unnecessary. However, it appears that these validating bills will have to be passed without opportunity to study the schedules in detail. The duties are to be validated only until the 28th February next, and I trust that the new Parliament will meet in sufficient time to enable consideration to be given to these schedules, thus rendering further validating measures unnecessary. As the revenue must be protected we have no option but to pass the bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The effect of the bill is to extend the operations of the Papua and New Guinea Bounties Act for a further period of ten years. It will be recalled that last year a bill was passed continuing until the 31st December, 1937, the legislation originally passed in 1926, in which the Commonwealth granted bounties on certain tropical products produced in the territories of Papua and New Guinea. The products included in the bounties list are - Cocoa beans, hemp, coir fibre, kapok, spices, sago, vanilla beans, bamboo and rattans. The bounties are payable only when the products are imported for Australian consumption. 
In general, products of the kind covered by the Bounties Act are either free of duty under the Customs Tariff or are subject to a low rate of duty. The quantity of these products at present produced in the Australian territories in negligible when compared with the total importations into the Commonwealth. In these circumstances, it is considered preferable to pay a straight-out bounty on the territorial products, rather than apply the alternative method of assisting territorial producers by taxing the importations from non-territorial sources merely for the purpose of providing a tariff preference. Honorable senators will, I am sure, share with me the view that both territories are rich in natural resources. However, like all new areas, they lack the capital resources necessary to develop them. The bounties are paid to encourage planters to embark on the expenditure involved in bringing new cultures into production and to introduce some degree of diversity in the cultivated crops. 
We must recognize that the main responsibility for permanent development of these territories must for many years rest upon the people of the Commonwealth rather than the handful of settlers who have ventured on the pioneering work. When the bill extending the bounty legislation until the 31st December, 1937, was introduced, reference was made to the disappointing results which had been achieved up to that time, and to the intention of the Government to examine the position before renewing the bounties for another long period. As a result of these inquiries, the conclusion was reached that the extraordinarily difficult economic and financial conditions which prevailed throughout the world during the greater part of the former period made it almost impossible for planters to interest themselves in cultures which they had not previously tried. 
The heavy fall of prices for all agricultural products was an equally discouraging factor. In these circumstances the hesitation of planters to embark on long-term capital outlay and risks associated with plantation cultures will be readily understood. Most of the cultures included in the bountiable list take several years to come into bearing, and no one could feel sure that prices would rise to remunerative levels by the time the plantations reached the productive stage. 
Within the last year or two interest in plantation extensions has been revived. It is felt that it would be a mistake to withdraw the bounties just when they show signs of achieving something. Tropical agricultural development isnot progressing as we would desire. 
In Papua agricultural activity has actually declined since the bounty legislation was introduced. Since 1926 the total area under cultivation has decreased by 5,000 acres. Sisal hemp has dropped out of cultivation, although £100,000 worth was exported prior to 1925-26. There have been small plantings of kapok, 128 acres in all. Two noteworthy developments have taken place: First, an increase in the area under rubber from8,000 acres to 9,600 acres; and, secondly, the establishment of coffee plantations, totalling 380 acres, and yielding for export 54 tons of coffee, valued at £5,000. The coco-nut palm continues to be the main plantation crop. 
In New Guinea the area under cultivation increased by 68,000 acres. This increase, however, was mainly due to the  extension of the area planted with coconuts. At the same time the interest of the planters has been stimulated in the production of coffee and cocoa. The coffee acreage has risen from 6 acres in 1926 to 1,260 acres in 1936. The area under cocoa has increased from 119 acres to 3,305 acres. The plantings of the cocoa tree are likely to be increased. Although small areas have been planted with kapok and a plant has been laid down for the treatment of coir fibre, commercial results have not yet been attained. 
Within the Commonwealth a market of appreciable dimensions exists for all the bountiable products. The average annual quantities and value of importations in recent years were - 

<graphic href="154332193709153_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

As many planters are showing greater interest in several of the bountiable cultures since economic conditions have improved, the Government, with a view to encouraging the enterprise necessary to further development, proposes in this bill an extension of the original bounties for a further period of ten years from the 1st January, 1938. The sums expended during recent years in payment of bounties have been as follows: - 

<graphic href="154332193709153_41_1.jpg"></graphic>

I commend the bill to the approval of honorable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Appropriation). 
I notice that the cost of the bounties last year was only £1,285. This was a slight advance on the amount paid for the previous year, but was nearly £200 below the sum paid in 1934-35. I am sorry that the production from the islands of these commodities is not greater, so as to make necessary the provision of a larger sum by way of bounties. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 10 agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Opposition is supporting the bill. I would, however, like the Minister to tell me whether the amount provided is not a. considerable reduction on the bounty paid to apple and peargrowers last season. If I understand the position aright, last year the bounty was 4½d. a bushel case, whereas the bounty payable tinder this bill is only 2½d. a case. If this is the position I regret it. 
There is no guarantee that prices will be better for the export season covered by this legislation. I should like an explanation of the reduction. 
I agree with the Leader of the Opposition (SenatorCollings) that it is regrettable that the amount of bounty has been reduced from 4½d. to 2½d. a case, particularly as cases and packing paper cost more than formerly and the basic wage has been increased. In addition to those extra costs, the unfortunate collapse of export prices in May and succeeding months has placed the growers of apples and pears in a serious position indeed. I know that it is proposed to reduce freights from 4s. l½d. to 3s. 7½d. a case, but I submit that a further reduction is possible. The Government should assist these growers by insisting on freight reductions by the shipping companies. 
They have benefited by probably £75,000 from reduced light dues and other charges. Since many growers are scarcely able to make the necessary preparations for next season's crop, I trust that something will be done by the Government to assist them. 
I associate myself with those who have expressed regret that the Government has not been able to see its way to make the bounty the same as it was last year. Any benefit which the growers have derived from reductions of freight charges have been more than offset by increased costs. For instance, the cost of packing paper has doubled and each case costs 3d. or 4d. more than formerly. I realize that the Senate's Standing Orders do not permit me to move an amendment to increase the bounty. The case for the growers has been placed before the Government on a number of occasions, and I do not propose to repeat it now; but I propose to read a telegram which I have just received from Henry Jones and Company, Hobart, who are probably the biggest exporters of apples in Australia - 
Serious position developing here respecting federal apple bounty. Tasmanian Department of Agriculture supplied Federal Commerce Department figure 75 per cent. apples sold which is absolutely incorrect. All reliable agents' figures agree 40 per cent. Cannot ascertain where the 75 per cent. figure originated. 
The Government would be justified in basing its calculations on figures supplied by a State department, notwithstanding that many Tasmanian members of Parliament had given the correct figures. Speaking from memory on a former occasion, I said that from 40 per cent. to 50 per cent. of the apples exported were sold f.o.b. Tasmanian ports. It is difficult to get the exact figures, but the agents have been to great pains to get figures which are as nearly correct as possible. If apples are sold f.o.b., even at low prices, the Government is justified in assuming that the growers have at least received something for their produce. As it would appear that the reduction of the grant is due to wrong information having been supplied, I suggest that if investigation establishes that the figures are wrong, the Government should increase the grant, thereby rectifying the mistake. The telegram which I have read would not have been sent unless there was good reason for the statements contained therein. If a mistake has been made, it should be rectified as soon as possible. 
 in reply  - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  is right in saying that the bounty has been reduced from the amount paid last year. 
I shall have something to say on the general question presently. 
I agree with  Senator J.  B. Hayes that representatives of Tasmania in this Parliament have left no stone unturned to further the interests of the growers of apples and pears in that State. I bear testimony to the interest displayed  by  them. The Government desires to treat the growers of apples and pears, not only with justice, but also with generosity, but it must have regard to its financial limitations. A different method of assistance was proposed, but the method suggested in the bill was that which found favour with the Apple and Pear Council. Its members realized that it would be impossible to provide a grant equal to that paid last year. 
It is true that the department received information that 75 per cent. of the apples were sold on that basis. 
I imagine that the Department of Agriculture would be in the best position to know the facts. No agent handles all the apples exported from Tasmania. Information supplied by the various agents and collated by the department would be more likely to be correct than would the figures of any individual agent. Moreover, the bounty was based, not so much on the proportion of fruit sold f.o.b., as on financial considerations. Much as the Government would have liked to be more generous, it believes that it went as far as it could. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time.  / n committee : 
Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Rate of bounty). 
.- The Minister has notsaid that, if on examination it is found that a mistake was made in regard to the figures, the amount of the bounty will be further considered. It is reasonable to assume that a mistake has been made, for I am sure that not 75 per cent. of the apples exported from Victoria were sold f.o.b. The Government probably based its proposals for a bounty on figures for the whole of the Commonwealth, not only for Tasmania. I hope that the Government will agree to a further grant if, on examination, it is found that a mistake has been made. 
The Government  does not concede that a mistake has been made. Moreover, the bounty was not based entirely on the figures supplied, but on the amount of £50,000 set aside for the purpose. The basis on which the bounty was determined had the approval of the organization which speaks on behalf of the growers of apples and pears. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 13 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[5.17]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure is the outcome of a promise made by the Prime Minister that the Commonwealth Government would assist the States to overcome the problem associated with unemployed youths who had missed their opportunity to receive an industrial training during the years of depression through which Australia passed. following several conferences with representatives from each of the States, it was agreed that there was no general problem associated with the employment of girls or young women, but that a considerable number of youths and young men between the ages of 18 years and  25  years had failed to secure any vocational training owing to the causes 1 have indicated, and were now amongst the ranks of the unskilled unemployed. Each State undertook to carry out a comprehensive survey amongst that group with a view to enabling the Commonwealth to assess the degree of unemployment in each State. It was then that the Commonwealth decided to contribute £200,000 as a grant to be distributed amongst the States to assist them to carry out a plan of vocational training best suited to the requirements of each. These plans were then to be submitted to the Commonwealth for approval. Each State, should it so desire, may put forward proposals including provisions for both girls and boys within the prescribed age group. This proposal was submitted to the Loan Council meeting on the 16th April, 1937, when it, was agreed that the amount of £200,000 should be made available by the  Commonwealth  Government to the States for the year 1937- 1938 from revenue, and not from loan. After taking into consideration all the circumstances associated with each State  the  following allocations were decided upon:- New SouthWales, £79,000; Victoria, £55,000; Queensland, £25,000; South Australia, £19,000; Western Australia, £14,000; Tasmania, £8,000; total, £200,000. 
All the States agreed to submit proposals to the Commonwealth for approval, but Queensland and South Australia are the only ones which so far have furnished their plans of operation for consideration. So soon as we receive the plans from the other States they will be dealt with as expeditiously as possible. The expenditure of this amount, and the actual carrying out of the training of the youths, will be a matter for the States, which have the machinery and the staffs to enable them to undertake that task. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed throughout its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
Thatthebillbenowread a second time. 
Honorable senators are, no doubt, aware of the difficulties which citrus growers generally, and particularly those in New South Wales, have encountered in finding in recent years an outlet for their surplus crop. This position is due in a great measure to the restriction placed upon Australian citrus fruits by the New Zealand Government at the end of 1932. In order to alleviate the position and to assist the industry to establish permanent export markets for oranges, the Commonwealth Government Las, during the past four years, rendered financial assistance to growers. When the 1935 bounty was announced, the various citrus interests were informed that no further assistance would be considered by the Commonwealth Government unless the industry took steps to establish an organization which could deal with production and marketing problems both at home and abroad, and generally safeguard the interests of the industry as a whole. In May, 1936, the Agricultural Council dealt with the question of the organization of the citrus industry and recommended the formation of a citrus advisory council. The Agricultural Council also urged the Government to continue the grant of a bounty for one more season pending the establishment of such a body. 
Because of the fact that the New Zealand market was still closed to Australian citrus fruits, South Australia excepted, and in order to assist the industry, whilst allowing it a further period in which to organize, the Government decided to continue payment of a bounty in 1936. The bounty was payable at the rate of 2s. per export case on oranges shipped to all destinations other than New Zealand. The Advisory Council has now been formed and the first meeting was held in Canberra on the 20th April last. Thus, the industry has, by forming an organization 'to deal with its own problems, complied with a condition precedent to any consideration by the Commonwealth Government of financial assistance in connexion with the export of citrus fruits from Australia. 
As an expansion of production is likely to take place within the next few years, it, is of the utmost importance that exports to the United Kingdom be continued. When growers are prepared to pioneer export markets, the Government feels that some assistance is warranted until sufficient time has been allowed to ascertain if those markets can be definitely established as continuous and profitable. Everything points to this object being attained, as last year the returns to growers for overseas exports were the best received so far, and may be fairly regarded as a definite indication of the possibility of providing a payable outlet for Australia's surplus orange production. At this stage, the Government is of opinion that it would be undesirable to take any action which might result in the loss of promising markets, and has, therefore, decided to renew the bounty for this year. At the same time, the Government has issued a warning to the industry that it cannot look for a continuance of assistance. The bill provides for a bounty on all citrus fruits exported to destinations other than New Zealand during the year 1937. The rate varies in proportion to the size of the case in which the fruit is allowed to be exported. The maximum rate of bounty is 2s. for an export case containing approximately a bushel and a half of fruit, and ranges clown to1s. for the half lemon case of approximately three-quarters of abushel. Previously, the bounty has been payable on oranges only, but, on this occasion, it has been extended to include mandarins, lemons and grape-fruit, with the idea of assisting certain small experimental shipments of these varieties which have been going forward for some years without participating in the bounty. It is estimated that the bounty will not exceed. £8,000. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Glauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Specifications of bounty). 
 Are thebounties under this clause at the same rate, and are the restrictions in it the same as last year, or have there been any additions? 
The bounty is the same as it was last year, but has been extended to take in mandarins, lemons and grape-fruit, which were not included last year. 
Clause agreed to. 
Glauses 5 to 11 agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported withoutamendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move - 
That thebill be now read a second time. 
This is a very short bill. It deals with one matter only, namely, the references in the act to the board controlling the marketing overseas of Australian wines. Honorable senators will recall that, at the end of last session, the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1936 was amended to provide for a change of the designation of the Wine Overseas Marketing Board to the Australian Wine Board. References to the original board appear in the Wine Grapes Charges Acts 1929, and the purpose of this bill is to alter such references. Accordingly, references in the Wine Grapes Charges Acts to the " Wine Marketing Board " are to be read as referring to the "Australian Wine Board." 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill relates to the alteration of the name of the board created to control the export of dairy produce. By an amendment of the Dairy Produce Control Act made in 1935, the name of the board appointed under that act was altered from, the Dairy Produce Control Board to the Australian Dairy Produce Board. In the Dairy Produce Export Charges Act 1924- 1929 the old name still appears and the amendments contained in this bill are necessary to provide for the alteration. 
Only one other matter is dealt with in the bill. In 1936 the levy under the act was amended on the recommendation of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, although the Dairy Produce Export Charges Act at that time provided that the recommendation should be by the Dairy Produce Control Board. The present bill proposes that the action taken in 1936 shall be validated. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Validation of StatutoryRules 1936, No. 108). 
 May I take it that: the validation of regulations' made in 1936 will not do an injustice to any one? 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[5.42]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this measure is a worthy one because it seeks to overcome the hardship suffered by certain officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Development and Migration Act passed in 1926 made provision forthe preservation of the existing and accruing rights of Commonwealth and State public servants who were transferred to that commission, but it did not specify what those rights were. In 1928 the Officers'Rights Declaration Act was passed specifying the rights preserved to Commonwealth officers transferred to the staff of the Development and Migration Commission, but no action was taken to specify the rights of State officers appointed to that body. The bill now before the Senate is for the purpose of remedying that omission. It indicates the rights which it was intended to preserve to State officers under the Development and Migration Act. Under the Commonwealth Public Service Act an officer of the public service of a State who transfers to the Commonwealth Public Service is entitled to have the period of his employment in the State counted for purposes of computing sick leave and furlough, provided, of course, thathis service in the State and Commonwealth is continuous. Because of the omission of which I have spoken the service of State officers appointed to the Development and Migration Commission is not counted as continuous service. The bill will overcome that difficulty. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reada second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[5.48]. - In moving- 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I shall take the opportunity to read the replies to two questions asked,  upon notice,  to-day by  Senator E.  B. Johnston. 
The honorable senator asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence - 
With reference to the increased expenditure on defence - 
Is it intended to proceed with the com pletion of the Henderson Naval Base at Fremantle ? 
If not, why not? 
What is the total expenditure already incurred in connexion with the Henderson Naval Base? 
When will the work be resumed ? 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. 
The large fleet proposed in the Henderson Report for which this base was planned is not being provided. Moreover, the completion of the Singapore Base has affected the situation. 
The sum of ?1,130,000 was expended over a period ofeight years. This includes the cost of the extensive area of land reserved and plant, including dredges. 
See answers to 1 and 2. 

 Senator E. B. Johnston also asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence - 
With reference to the increased expenditure on defence - 
What new capital expenditure from the defence votes on works or otherwise will be spent in Western Australia? 
Will the desirability of establishing a factory for munitions in Western Australia be considered? 
The Minister for Defencehas supplied the following answers: - 
The estimated amount is £394,000. 
The Minister for Defence stated in his speech on the DefenceEstimates that, though the new avenues of munitions production have been provided by extensions to existing factories, consideration will he given by the Government in any future new expansion to the practicability of decentralizing production where possible. When new factories need to be established, consideration will be given  to  the possibility of locating them in other States, but when additions can be economically made  to  existing factories for work similar to that  at  present being done in such factories, that policy will be followed. 
It is always with mixed feelings that one moves the motion for the adjournment at the last meeting of the Senate before general elections, because one wonders what changes will take place in the composition of the Parliament when it reassembles. Of course, new senators, if there are any, will not take their seats until June, but nevertheless there may be changes in the positions occupied by honorable senators in the chamber. 
On behalf of the Government I desire to say how much it appreciates the general courtesy extended to it by honorable senators during the session. Also, I thank the  President  who, unfortunately - because of an accident from which 
We  hope he will speedily recover - has been compelled to remain away from the Senate during the present sittings. My thanks are also extended to you,  Mr. Deputy President,  not only as  Deputy President  but also as  Chairman  of Committees, and to the officers of the Senate andmembers of the various staffs associated with this chamber. Honorable senators owe to all of these officers their best thanks for the consideration they have shown to them, and particularly for the manner in which they have overlooked those weaknesses of human nature which become so noticeable in political life. I can only express the hope that Fate may be kind to all of us. 
Before associating myself with the expressions of thanks and goodwill just voiced by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)I  wish to bring up a matter which I have not had an opportunity to raise earlier to-day, mainly because of the pace at which we have been dealing with the business of the Senate. Some time ago - I think it was three weeks ago-a request was made to the Prime Minister that a commission of inquiry should be set up to investigate the establishment of the alkali industry in South Australia in which a  Mr. G.  K. McPhail was very much interested. I understand that the Prime Minister received a letter from  Mr. McPhail's  solicitors submitting a claim for compensation and asking that such an inquiry be instituted, I shall not go into the merits of the case at the moment, although I have quite a fund of information in relation to this matter, but I believe that it calls for further inquiry. I am addressing my remarks to the Minister in Charge of Development  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  because I understand that the matter comes within the purview of his depart- ment. I should like to know if he can offer any explanation for the delay. 
I wholeheartedly associate myself with the remarks of the Leader of the Government in the Senate regarding the work of all sections of the Senate staff during the session. They have done much to make our work lighter, and to contribute to our convenience: I also wish sincerely to thank you,  Mr. Deputy President (Senator Sampson),  for the way in which you have discharged the duties of  President.  We all regret the unfortunate accident to the  President  and 1 hope that he is progressing steadily towards complete recovery. Our thanks are especially due to members of the  Hansard  staff for the efficient manner in which they have performed their duties. On an occasion like this we should not forget members of the Library staff. I am sure that the Leader of the Senate will agree with me when I say that we get splendid help from all of the Library officials in the carryingout of our duties. It is not necessary for me to say much more. Some of us are sure to be returned, for a time at least. Others are not quite sure. The fate of my new colleague (SenatorCourtice) is in the hands of the electors of Queensland. Of course, I hope that he will come back to this chamber with my other colleague,  Senator Brown.  Having said so much, honorable senators will  understand that I have some sort of intuition regarding my own fate.Whatever may be the constitution of the new Parliament when it assembles, I am sure that however much we may differ politically, all hearts will go out in sympathy for those who are slain by the wayside, but we shall give a warm welcome to all newcomers. Finally, I am hopeful that, as the result of the elections, Labour's strength in the Senate will be increased substantially and honorable senators now on the ministerial benches will find themselves in opposition. 
In reply to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  the claim by  Mr. McPhail  for compensation in connexion with the alkali deposits in South Australia will bo considered by the Prime Minister in conjunction with myself. The honorable gentleman will, I hope, understand that during the last ten days or so, there has not been much time to deal with the matter. Also in the stress of public business during the last few days I am afraid that my reply to the Leader of the Opposition with regard to  Mr. Alexander  Hordern may have been misunderstood. But, it is a matter of no moment, because no person of that name is employed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. As to the payment by the commission to  Mr. Cleary,  the honorarium of £2,000 was for services rendered over a period of nearly eighteen months. It is not intended that he should receive any further emolument than that provided in the act. 

 - Mr. Cleary was acting as manager of the commission for five months, but. the special services for which he received an honorarium of £2,000, extended over a period of eighteen months in all. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sampson).  - Before putting the motion I wish to express to Ministers, to the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues, and to all honorable senators, my thanks for the kindness and consideration shown to me during this short session in the absence of our  President  who, I am glad to state, is making a satisfactory recovery from his accident. 1 have been informed that he left the St. John of God Hospital on Wednesday last. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear ! 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDEN T. - I endorse all thathas been said by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  as to the value of the services rendered by all branches of the Senate staff, and I would include the refreshmentroom staff, who arc called upon to work irregular and sometimes very long hours in catering for the wants of honorable sena tors. On occasions their work is almost equivalent to active service conditions. I appreciate very highly all that they have done for us. As to the future, all I need say is, I hope that all honorable senators who are seeking re-election will get what they deserve. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senatead journed at6.3 p.m. 
 by leave  - With the concurrence of the Government, His Excellency the GovernorGeneral, Lord Gowrie, proposes to proceed to England on six months' leave commencing about the 20th March, 193S. During the absence of Lord Gowrie, His Excellency the Governor of Victoria, Lord Huntingfield, will administer the Government of the Commonwealth. 
 by leave  - I move - 
That this Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of Major-General the Honorable  Sir Granville  de Laune Ryrie, K.C.M.G., CB., V.D., a former member of the New South Wales and Commonwealth Parliaments, Assistant Commonwealth Minister, and High Commissioner for Australia in London, places on record its appreciation of his . distinguished public service, and tenders its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
Since last we met, death has claimed a distinguished Australian in the person of  Sir Granville  Ryrie, who died in Sydney on the 2nd October last. The late  Sir Granville  had a record of service to his country, both as a soldier and as a public man, of -which any person might well be proud. Born some 72 years ago at Michelago, the late  Sir Granville  was for many years connected with the pastoral industry. 
In 1906, he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales as member for Queanbeyan, and held that seat until the expiration of the Parliament in 1909. In 1911 he entered the Federal Parliament as member for North Sydney, and was re-elected for that constituency in 1913, 1914, 1917 and 1919. He was elected, unopposed, for the new division of Warringah in 1922, and was again returned in 1925. From February, 1919, to February, 1922, he was Assistant Minister for Defence in the Hughes Ministry. In January, 1926, he was appointed a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, and later became the  chairman  of the committee. In 1927, he was appointed High Commissioner for Australia in London in succession to  Sir Joseph  Cook. 

 His record of military service is equally distinguished. He served in the South African War in 1900 and 1901, for which service he received the Queen's Medal with four clasps. Soon after the outbreak of the Great War he received an appointment as colonel in the Australian Imperial Force to command the Second Light Horse Brigade, head-quarters. A little later, he was appointed a brigadiergeneral. He saw active service in Egypt, and Palestine and on Gallipoli, being twice wounded and mentioned in despatches on five occasions.  His  Majesty the King conferred on him the honours of C.M.G., in 1916; CB., in 1918; and K.C.M.G., in 1919. 
Such is a brief account of the late  Sir Granville's  record of public service. On the personal side, too, he left a name that will be cherished by all who were privileged to know him. A typical Australian, his geniality and spirit of loyalty won for him many friends wherever he went.  His  courage and cheerfulness inspired his comrades in arms in the many battles in which he took part. In mourning his loss, we remember his widow and family, and offer to them our deep sympathy in their great bereavement. 
I second the motion. Members of the Opposition agree with the remarks of the mover regarding the distinguished services rendered to his country by the deceased gentleman, and join most sincerely in condoling with those of his family who are left to mourn his loss. 
On behalf of the- members of the Country party, I desire to associate myself with the remarks of the Leader of the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
-I have to report that, for greater accuracy, I have obtained from His Excellency the Governor-General a copy of the Opening Speech which His Excellency was pleased to deliver to both Houses of Parliament. 
Copies of the report of the directors, and the balance-sheet as at, the 30th June, 1937, of Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited have been placed on the table in the Library. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs, whether the Government has received the report of the Tariff Board on the proposal to manufacture motor vehicles in Australia? 
If so, when will it be made available to the Senate? 
The honorable senator was good enough to inform me that he proposed to ask this question, andI have ascertained that the Tariff Board has submitted a report to the Minister on the subject of the manufacture of motor vehicles in Australia. As further information on the subject is being obtained from the Tariff Board, it is not possible at present to indicate when the. report will be available to the Senate. 
Has the attention of Ministers in the Senate been directed to a statement made recently by  Senator  Pearce  that Commonwealth Ministers of to-day have to shoulder responsibilities and undergo a drain on strength and vitality compared with which the responsibilities of Federal Ministers 25 years ago were insignificant? If so, do Ministers intend to resign from their various company directorships in order to endure successfully the strain of ministerial office? 
I have not read the statement referred to by the honorable senator, but I fully endorse the remark regarding the present strain of ministerial office. As to the second portion of the honorable gentleman's question, that is a matter for the individual judgment of each Minister, having in mind the state of his health. 
Can the Assistant Minister for Commerce give the Senate an assurance that the interests of Australian growers of citrus and other fruits will be safeguarded in any action taken in connexion with the suggested AngloAmerican trade agreement? 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.I . give the honorable gentleman an assurance that the Government will properly safeguard the. interests of growers of citrus and other fruits in any trade negotiations with other countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
In connexion with the visit of the British rifle team fine at Fremantle in three weeks' time, will the Minister for Defence ensure that an equitable allotment is made, through the Commonwealth Rifle Council, of the Government grant towards the entertainment expenses, instead of the whole amount being allotted to one particular State? 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the fol lowing answer :  - 
The grant made by the Commonwealth Government in connexion with thev isit of the British rifle team to Australia has not been allotted to one particular State. An amount of £747 13s. to cover the cost of rail, car and other fares of the team during their travels from State to State and to meet other expenditure incidental to the visit of the team to the various States has been made available to the Com mon wealth Council of Rifle . Associations. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that temporary returned soldier telephone mechanics, on being appointed permanently under the recent amendment to the Commonwealth Public Service Act, have been classified as Grade I mechanics with a loss of £30 a year salary, notwithstanding their satisfactory service since passing the required examination in 1927, and that they have drawn the higher salary as GradeII mechanics over a considerable period of years? If the answer is in the affirmative what is the reason? 
In view of the Government's policy of preference to returned soldiers, will the PostmasterGeneral give an assurance that all temporary returned soldier linesmen, duly qualified as regards examination and service, be given priority in filling permanent positions when they become vacant? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are  as  follows: - 
No temporary returned soldier telephone mechanic, on being permanently appointed under the recent amendment to the Commonwealth Public Service Act, suffered loss ofpay. In each case where the salary on permanent appointment was of an amount less than the remuneration received as a temporary employee immediately prior to permanent appointment, an allowance to obviate any loss of pay was granted. 
It is the intention that all existing vacancies and those occurring duringthe next two years, which it is necessaryto fill and for which permanent officers of the service arc not available, will be filled by returned soldiers who have qualified for, and are awaiting permanent appointment, in the interests of efficient service, it is important, however, that there should be before long a leavening of young men admitted to the ranks of linesmen, and for this reason a limited number of youths is to be admitted in the near future as trainees. These youths will nut be available for at least two years to undertake linesmen's duties, and even then will not be utilized to fill more than50 per cent, of the vacancies arising: the balance of the vacancies will be reserved for qualified returned soldiers. 
I move- 
That the following Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General's Speech be agreed to: - 

 His Excellency the Governor-General - 

We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to Our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank YourExcellency for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
It is an honour to move in this Senate  a  motion affirming our loyalty to  His  Majesty the King. During the short period that  His  Majesty has occupied his exalted position, we have had ample evidence that the high ideals of service to the people and attention to duty that animated his late father, King George V., animate our present King. As a result of the recent election, some honorable senators who are now with us will not meet in this chamber after June next; but I am confident that those who will take their places will subscribe to these expressions of loyalty' and respect which we now offer to his Majesty King George VI. 
One of the most encouraging things associated with our parliamentary institutions is the way in which the people of Australia have followed the right course when confronted by important issues. I congratulate the 
Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  on having been returned to lead a government for the third successive occasion, a record which will probably stand for a considerable period. 
This chamber has sustained a severe los3 through the defeat of  Senator Sir George  Pearce, who was one of the original members of the Commonwealth Parliament, having been elected to the Senate in 1901. Since that time, he has energetically devoted himself to the service of his country, and his capacity is shown by the fact that for 25 years he has held ministerial office. The loss of his leadership in this chamber will be felt not only by 'the Government, but also by every honorable senator. In attempting to account for his defeat, I can only think that the electors of "Western Australia are not in a position to realize his outstanding qualifications; otherwise they would have returned him to continue as one of their representatives in this chamber. Members of the Senate are in a better position to assess accurately the work of their colleagues than are the electors generally. Unfortunately, the service that public men render to their country is not always realized by the electors. I express the hope that  Senator Sir George  Pearce and Lady Pearce will, be spared for many years to enjoy that rest which he himself has said is necessary, and I am confident that, as time passes, the service that he has rendered to Australia will be more fully realized. The Senate will sustain a further great loss when you.  Sir, cease  to be a member of it. Both in the State Parliament and in the Senate yon have, for many years, represented the electors, and on more than one occasion have demonstrated a fearlessness of speech which is most commendable. Your conduct has been animated by high ideals during the whole of your parliamentary career, and I personally regret that the Senate is shortly to lose your services. A number of other honorable senators will also not mingle with .us here after next June. I shall make no invidious distinctions because each of them has, during his parliamentary career, endeavoured to serve his country to the limit of his capacity, and will leave this chamber with the satisfaction of knowing that much that he has set out to do has been accomplished. I congratulate those new senators who have already taken their places among us, and also those who will meet here after next June. I fee! confident that those high ideals which have guided honorable senators in the past will continue to inspire honorable senators in the future. 
I congratulate those of our colleagues who have been elevated to ministerial rank.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan has succeeded to a most difficult position as the Leader of the Government in this chamber. I compliment him on his elevation, and trust that he and his new colleagues will receive from honorable  senators generally the support to which they are entitled. 
It is clear that, as a result of the elections, the Government has received a mandate to proceed with the policy enunciated during the election campaign. Generally, the result of the election must be regarded as satisfactory. 
Another such victory, and the present Government will be undone. 
 Surely it does not bludgeon measures through this chamber. 
The main proposals presented to the electors during the recent campaign were in respect of security - national, industrial and social. As regards national security, the Government's policy, particularly in respect of defence, is one that must commend itself to all sections of the community. Australia has been peculiarly fortunate in that throughout its history it has never been invaded, nor has it experienced armed civil conflict within its borders. It has been able to develop peacefully almost entirely under the protection of Great Britain. Since the war, however, the position of Great Britain in its relation to other powers has definitely deteriorated, in that its naval strength is relatively not so great to-day as it was in 1914. Consequently it is essential that Australia should endeavour to make the fullest contribution within its capacity towards assisting the Old Country, in regard to not only its own protection but also that of the Empire generally. To those people who sincerely desire to promote world peace I suggest that there is no greater influence working to prevent armed conflict than the power of the British Empire. The Empire's authority in international affairs, however, is measured almost entirely by its capacity to support the measures it advocates. I believe that it is the wish of every Australian that we should contribute towards the strength of Great Britain in order that the British Commonwealth of Nations may exercise increasing influence in international affairs, an influence, which, I suggest, will invariably be directed towards the preservation of world peace. The defence policy  of  the Government, as announced during the election campaign, is one  of  co-operation with Great Britain, and the people of Australia, by their verdict at the polls, have said in no uncertain terms that they approve of that policy. I was extremely pleased to hear the Governor-General state  that  the Government intends to push ahead with its defence policy along  the  lines which it had previously announced to the Parliament and the country. 
Industrial security can be attained in various ways. I suggest that this matter is vitally affected by our relations with foreign countries. One of the great needs of nations to-day is to live in greater amity, one with another. Trade and commerce exercise an important influence on international relations, and, consequently, I support entirely the  Government's  proposal to press forward in its endeavour to make further agreements with foreign countries, not only for the preservation and extension of our markets, but also for the establishment of better international feeling. I feel sure that all honorable senators agree with the attitude adopted by the Government in respect of negotiations for an AngloAmerican agreement. The inability of certain countries to maintain standards  of  living to which they are entitled causes greater friction among nations than any other factor and consequently anything  which can remove restrictions and clear the channels of trade will have a very desirable effect on international relations generally. I was also very pleased to notice that the Governor-General's Speech included an assurance by the Government that before any agreement is completed, both the primary and secondary industries of this country will be consulted, in order that no injustice may be done to any section of industry in Australia. I know that my friends, the manufacturers, are very active in placing their views before the Government from time to time, and, no doubt, they will take every opportunity to impress their wishes upon the Government in the future. I am afraid, however, that in the past our primary industries have not been so well organized, and not so vocal as the secondary industries, and, consequently, their view has not always received due consideration. I recognize the need for a balanced economy in this country, and the need to establish certain industries for defence purposes, and to give them what might otherwise be an inordinate measure of protection. I fear, however, that unless great care is exercised, some industries may, on the plea of defence needs, be established and given an unjustified measure of protection. I direct the attention of honorable senators to the fact that the most stable industries in Australia, as shown by our experiences of the depression, through which we have nowpassed, are the primary industries. During the whole period of the depression these industries continued in production and, indeed, many of them actually increased production. They kept their workers employed during a very difficult period, thus relieving both State and Federal Governments of a very grave responsibility. In contrast to the successof the primary industries in this respect, our secondary industries were able to curtail production, and, in doing so, were responsible for a large proportion of the unemployment which .then occurred. Our secondary industries should be developed simultaneously with our primary industries. I welcome the assurance given that those representing all our important industries will have the right to express their view before any agree ments which may affect the stability of any primary or secondary industry are entered into. 
In regard to social security, we are now entitled to say that we have regained pre-depression standards, and to consider conditions in this country as normal. I am not suggesting that present standards are as high as we may desire, or as may be ultimately possible, but using pre-depression standards as the basis of comparison, we- can now consider that conditions are normal. Indeed, we may safely  assume that  we are little above the pre-depression standard, particularly in respect of unemployment because, prior to the depression, the same provision was not made for the unemployed in this country as is made to-day, and consequently, the same incentive was not given to unemployed persons to register. Under the conditions that have prevailed in recent years, persons out of work naturally register to entitle them to relief and to other services. Our unemployment figures are, therefore, more complete to-day than they were in pre-depression days. The depression has, however, shown a very definite weakness in our social system, particularly in respect of unemployment and health. I believe that every honorable senator . feels that the introduction of an insurance scheme to  provide certain  social services, and dispense with the dole or charity is most desirable. I heartily support the proposal contained in the GovernorGeneral's Speech to introduce an insurance scheme concerning old-age and health, and as that is a sphere in which the Commonwealth can operate, there should be no delay in implementing such a scheme. The position in respect of unemployment is somewhat difficult because, the responsibility for these social services is carried by the States, and it would be unwise and unfair for the Commonwealth to superimpose a federal scheme on the States which already have  very  extensive social schemes, the cost of which is met by contributions from the people. A federal scheme would mean further collections from the same persons. The Government has already made overtures  to the  States with the idea of formulating a scheme to meet the common  needs, but up to the present no finality has been reached. As a result of further negotiations, a satisfactory insurance scheme should be adopted. 
During the recent election campaign considerable prominence was given to Australian banking and monetary policy. In the last two general elections, the members of the Labour party have sponsored very radical policies in respect of banking and monetary reform. 
Another matter of great importance, particularly to the less-populous States, is the Government's proposal to reconstitute the Inter-State Commission. I acknow ledge the excellent work done by the Commonwealth Grants Commission during the time it has been in existence. It has had to handle some extremely difficult problems and it has done its best to find a solution of them. I am not suggesting, however, that the principles adopted by the commission are above criticism. When the commission was appointed it was understood that it would endeavour to arrive at a basis which would enable the various States to function as was envisaged at the inception of federation. Prior to federation there were inequalities between the standards of the various States, and it was held that the weaker States should be assisted with the object of enabling them to maintain a common Australian standard. Some States possessing greater resources are able to support higher standards, and it was intended that, so far as possible, all States should he placed on the same basis. The Commonwealth Grants Commission had to endeavour to achieve that objective. That being so, it is difficult to understand some of the methods adopted by the commission. It has definitely shown differentiation between claimant States and the other States. For instance, losses on loan works undertaken in claimant States have been used as a set off, while similar losses in the larger States have not been taken into account. Even if that aspect of the problem had been taken into account, I think the commission should have considered the existing problems in the various States, because in some of them the development of natural resources has been much easier and less costly than in others. I suggest, for instance, that in Western Australia and South Australia, the development of poorer lands proved much more costly than the lands in Victoria, New South Wales or Queensland. Consequently the loan expenditure per head of population in the more sparsely settled States of South Australia and Western Australia, was in excess of that incurred in the three eastern States, particularly in connexion with the conservation and reticulation of water, which is one of the principal needs of the people in rural areas. The expenidture on these services in South Australia, with a population of 500,000 or 600,000, approximated that incurred in Victoria, with a population of nearly  2,000,000.  Consequently, it is not surprising that, in the circumstances, mistakes were made by those responsible for rural development in some of the claimant States. But even admitting that there should be some set-off for the losses made in this connexion, that would hardly reconcile the differentiation made by the commission between the States due to such losses. It is difficult to understand why the State showing the lowest loss of loan expenditure per head of population should be penalized to the greatest extent. These are matters which, I think, might well be taken into consideration by the proposed Interstate Commission. If there is justification for the view taken by the Commonwealth Grants Commission, the people should know of it, because, at the present time, there is considerable dissatisfaction in claimant States owing to the operation of such principles as were adopted by the commission. Furthermore, differentiation has been shown by the Commonwealth Grants Commission in respect of social services. In assessing the average of social services in Australia, the position in New South Wales was not taken into account. The commission arrived at its findings on the basis of the position in Victoria and Queensland, and, as a result, the claimant States were penalized to the extent of  6  per cent. ; that is to say, the commission took the view that the expenditure on social services in the claimant States should be  6  per cent, below that for Victoria and Queensland. When pressed to include the expenditure in New South Wales on social services, the commission increased the penalty on the claimant States to  10  per cent. It is difficult to understand the reason for this differentiation, but it seems to me that the commission fixed upon an arbitrary figure to deduct from the average of the social services in the three eastern States, and on that basis determined the standard for social services in the claimant States. However, I pay a tribute to the commission for the excellent work which it has done. Although we may not all agree with its findings, we are, I believe, in agreement that it is absolutely sincere and unprejudiced in its attitude to the problems of the various States. 
I notice with interest the reference in the Governor-General's Speech to the subject of air transport, in connexion with which the Government has for some time been in negotiation with the various States. I regret that the proposal to vest full authority in the Commonwealth was defeated at the recent referendum, and I should like to know what action has been taken to ensure the making of regulations which shall apply uniformly throughout Australia. Flying is one of the most dangerous forms of transport. To minimize the risks, it is necessary for the Commonwealth and the State Governments to agree upon stringent regulations for the effective examination of all commercial pilots, to ensure the airworthiness of all machines, and to exercise complete control over all ground organization. I should like to know how far agreement in this direction has been achieved between the Commonwealth and the States, and what regulations have been proclaimed for the safety of the public. I know that the Government has been in consultation with the States in this matter, but I am not aware of the stage reached in the negotiations. Air services in Australia, are expanding very rapidly, and my fear is that unless prompt and effective action is taken by the Government, the public using our air services may be exposed to unnecessary danger. 
 That is because air services are controlled by private enterprises. 
.  - I congratulate  Senator McBride  on his initial effort in this chamber. We are happy to see the honorable gentleman in the Senate. Judging from the quality of his speech this afternoon, I feel sure that he will prove an acquisition and that, at all times, he will endeavour to keep the level of debate in the Senate upon that  high, plane which we all desire to maintain. I regard it as a privilege, indeed an honour, to second the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech which his  Excellency  the GovernorGeneral delivered in this chamber yesterday. I consider it a privilege because, as  Senator McBride  hinted, whenever the people of this country are tested, they always ring true. I believe that, whenever there is an honest difference of opinion as to the best course to be taken to ensure, as far as is humanly possible, the safety of the Commonwealth, they decide to take no risks. As regards the present world unrest, they take, I believe, the larger view, holding that in a solid front by the people of the British Commonwealth of Nations lies the greatest hope for peace and security in this unhappy world. As honorable senators are aware, I have on more than one occasion advocated in this chamber the cause of peace. But I have never deceived myself into believing that peace may be had by the waving of a magic wand, or by any short-cut. Peace must depend entirely upon understanding between the peoples of the various nations. I, therefore, congratulate the Government upon having placed, in the forefront of its legislative programme, a determination to continue to do what is possible to preserve world peace, and maintain friendly relations with all countries. T feel sure also that our friends in opposition will freely and sincerely give to the Government their fullest co-operation in endeavouring to achieve this objective. This morning many of us. were privileged to see a private screening of a notable film, entitled " Victoria the Great," which passed in review the principal events of the memorable reign of the late Queen Victoria. The commentary stated that that period was the most glorious in the history of the British Empire. That statement is probably correct, but we feel equally inspired when we call to mind what took place at the recent Imperial Conference, which was attended by representatives of all the self-governing dominions, colonies and dependencies of the British Empire, and when we remember the solemn declaration there made that in rearming the British Empire is pledged to a policy of non-aggression and defence only. Even if, as I said not long ago in this chamber, that might possibly be suspected to have been said with the tongue in the cheek, I again suggest that evidence is not lacking of the deep and real sincerity which lies behind that pledge. It is to be found in  the history of what our British nation did after the Washington Conference, when it loyally scrapped its warships; not merely did it pare its navy down to the limit of safety, but also, as is generally agreed to-day by students of these matters among other peoples as well as our own, there was a period when Great Britain would' have been absolutely as the mercy of an aggressor. So Great Britain showed its real sincerity, which I am afraid was not thoroughly appreciated. In certain quarters it was taken as a sign of weakness, and, therefore, Great Britain, against its will, and against the sentiment of its freedom-loving people, was forced to re-arm. We have given to the world the declaration which was recently reaffirmed by the vote of the Australian people, that we stand as solid to-day as ever, prepared not only to uphold our own liberties but also, so far as possible, to use our great influence in the cause of peace, and in the cause of justice for the weak throughout the world. Our people gave a right vote and a light verdict, and I invite our friends opposite - who were a little weak upon the subject of defence, and desired to bank more upon one particular arm, a policy which, we pointed out, might bring war to our shores for the first time, to co-operate heartily with us, as I feel sure they will, in doing all that Australia can do to ensure full co-operation with not only all the peoples of the British Empire, but also, by our influence., our will, and our actions, with the great republic of America, in the manner which has been more than hinted at in  His  Excellency's Speech. I remember, about 40 years ago, when I was a boy at school, hearing  Colonel Bell,  then the Consul-General in Australia for the United States of America, deliver a lecture upon the destiny of the Anglo-Saxon race. I think f. have referred to this matter before in the Senate, but perhaps it will bear repetition, as it was prophetic. He said that, if the Anglo-Saxon people would, with determination, say to all the world: " There shall be no war on that day war would cease. I feel more than gratified to find reference to this matter tc-day in His Excellency's Speech. 
I call the attention not only of the Senate, but also of the public of Australia, to the fact that the present Government is not unmindful of social services, and of ihe general welfare of the people of every class, without distinction. Of this His Excellency's Speech, embodying the proposed policy of the Government in this new Parliament, gives full evidence. We find in it reference to an intention to introduce national health and pensions insurance, and unemployment insurance in consultation with the States; also to the problem of loans to workers, and relief for the poorer people during the Christmas period by the provision of  £100,000  to create additional work for those unfortunates who find themselves in difficulties at the present time. We find in fact many indications of attention to the social welfare of the people. Even the aborigines are not forgotten. Perhaps I should not say " even the aborigines ", because we should always, both mentally and in practice, put them in the foreground, since undoubtedly we owe much to them, and they have been a very much abused people. 
I am afraid the honorable senator is right there. In relation to the report of the Royal Commission on Banking, I desire particularly to congratulate the Government upon its decision to establish, in the near future, as one of the first matters to be implemented, a mortgage bank. I urge it to take the fullest advice as to the nature of the mortgages to be offered to those who require help. One particular aspect has occurred to me. I remember that, in the earlier days of closer settlement in my own State, a number of government schemes were put forward providing  for  immediate payments, or at any rate fairly early payments, by the settler, part representing the repayment of a small portion of the capital and the other part interest. But under almost all those earlier government schemes there was the unhappy spectacle of the settler having to approach the Government from time to time with a request for the remission or suspension of his instalments of principal or interest. Side by side with those government schemes - and here my friends opposite must pardon me for referring to private enterprise - we had in the northern part of New South Wales one or two schemes which gave to the settler a free loan for the first few years of his term. The loan might have been perhaps only apparently free, but it had this effect, that when the settler went on to his new holding, and had to make all his heavy improvements; and buy agricultural machinery, it was to him a tremendous boon to be relieved of immediate payments in respect of principal or interest to the vendors. A number of large private subdivisions were sold on those terms, particularly in the Tamworth district of the New England electorate. Large and valuable properties were cut up in that fashion, and the settler had his purchase money lent to him by the vendors, almost free of interest, for a period, I think, of up to four or five years. I urge the Government to take into serious consideration that aspect of any long-term mortgage policy which ii desires to establish in connexion with this new branch of Commonwealth banking. 
I cannot resume my seat without also touching upon the losses which have befallen the Senate as part of the fortunes of political war. It has, I suppose, often been said that the real object of human life should be that, when we lay it down, our friends should have the satisfaction of knowing that we have left that little part of the world in which we happened to function just a little better than we found it. That, at least, is the epitaph for which we all hope, and it applies particularly to political life. We find men who entered politics, as all of us do, with very high ideals, terminating their political lives after a very long term - - 
That is not the way in which I should put it. I was thinking of our late leader,  Senator 
Pearce, and others who have given as devoted and unselfish service to their country as  Senator Ashley  doubtless hopes to give. I am sure that his remark hardly represents the spirit in which we should contemplate the end of the political career of those who have been taken from us. The last election brought about the end, or perhaps only the temporary suspension, of the political lives of a number of honorable senators. Whilst at all times we feel the loss of the companionship of those with whom we have worked as political friends or opponents in this chamber for, I hope, the welfare of the nation, yet, on this occasion, I am sure I can say, without presumption and without being charged with making invidious distinctions, that not merely the Senate, but also Australia as a whole, irrespective of diversities of political opinion, desires that the closing of a great political career such as that of the Eight Honorable  Sir George  Pearce should not pass unnoticed, but that tribute should be paid to a record so remarkable and unique as his.  Senator Pearce  has been, I understand, in public life for about 37 years. He is one of the few with us to-day who have been in this Parliament throughout the whole growth of this young Commonwealth. I believe he has actually served for about 25 years as a Minister of the Crown, a very wonderful record. He also has the unique distinction that, of all the war Ministers in the whole of the British Empire,he was the only one to survive.  His  deep storehouse of experience, and his readiness at all times to place it at the service of the Senate, will be deeply missed here. I believe he will go out with something greater than political victory, because the ideals with which he entered politics many years ago remain untarnished, and he will leave us with the greatest credit, and commanding the deepest respect of all who made contact with him. I believe that the people of this country, laying aside all political prejudices, will concur fully in this estimate of his worth. It is good to know that he retains to the full his mental and physical vigor. I believe that his mature and varied experience is still at the close of his political career as useful as ever to his country. And so I take what I hope my friends in this chamber will not regard as a liberty or a presumption on my part when, remembering the service that he has rendered to Australia, I turn to  Senator Pearce,  and say, " Thank you,  Sir George  ". 
To you also,  Mr. President,  I express, on behalf of the Senate, the sincerest goodwill. We have all admired your work here; you will take with you the sincere affection of all who know you. I have said that I do not wish to make invidious distinctions, but it is with feelings of sadness that I contemplate parting for a time from my leader,  Senator Hardy.  He, however, is still a young man, and I believe that later, with even a riper experience, he will again be found serving in the political life of this country. It is well to recollect that it was Charles Hardy, who, in the darkest hours of the depression, did something to call a halt to those fears which were ruining our people. To those other honorable senators who will not be with us after next June, we offer our best wishes. The fate which has befallen them may overtake any of us almost at any time. We hope that those of them who are so minded will return here later, and that in whatever position in life they are found after they leave here the habit of service common to parliamentarians, notwithstanding the sneers of some who decry us,will continue, no matter 'how small or local the opportunity may be.  His  Excellency's Speech gives such "promise of good government in the future that it is with feelings of the greatest satisfaction and pleasure that I second the motion so ably moved by my colleague from South Australia. 
I shall say a few words, not so much on the formal wording of the Address-in-Reply which will be presented to  His Excellency  the Governor-General later, as upon those remarks which have been made by the two gentlemen selected to move and second respectively the Address. I am never wanting in recognition of the service rendered to the community by public men in any capacity, but I am of the opinion that the eulogies that have been tendered to at least two of those of our number who will retire in June next are not in good taste. 1 believe that the time to say such things as we have in our minds regarding them and other honorable senators who will retire next June is when they make their final appearance among us before their departure. Things could be said then which would not in any way contravene good taste or cause even the suggestion of embarrassment. 
The suggestion behind these eulogies is that the newcoiners who will take the places of retiring senators will be less satisfactory. 
The natural corollary to such statements is that J, or some other member of the Opposition, should rise in his place and give the history of those gentlemen who, after the 1st July next, will come among us. I do not propose to do that. Nor do I propose to say anything about the two gentlemen who have been specially mentioned to-day, except that both of thorn received their education and training in the Labour movement. It is because of that fact that they rendered valuable 'service to their country in subsequent years. That is something which ought not to bc forgotten. Nor should we forget that, almost without exception, the great and distinguished leaders of Nationalist governments, from the inception of Australia to the present time, have been recruited from the ranks of the Labour party. 
We  have become accustomed to interjections by  Senator Dein  . which are not worthy of our  attention. 
The Assistant Minister  (Senator Allan MacDonald)  may regard the interjection as being smart, but it is the smartness of the gutter. To any satisfaction which either he or  Senator Dein  may derive from such interjections he is entitled. I make my protest, nevertheless. In our utterances m this chamber we are .expected to approach to something like a measure of dignity. 
Apparently, the honorable senator who moved the Address-in-Reply, like many other people, is astounded at the loyalty of Australians.  Senator McBride  does not come into this chamber as a parliamentary neophyte. Why government supporters should be so continually surprised at the loyalty of the people of Australia passes my understanding. There has never been any doubt in the mind of any one who has taken an intelligent interest in the growth of public opinion in Australia regarding the. loyalty of its people.  Senator McBride  was so surprised at such loyalty that he actually assumed a position which he had no right to assume. He ventured the opinion that the newcomers among us would be equally loyal. The suggestion is that the members of the Opposition are not as loyal as are members of the parties forming the composite Government. I remind  Senator McBride  that there is no need for any really loyal person to continually proclaim his loyalty from the housetops. The honorable senator went on to -conduct a post-mortem examination of the election, and he suggested a reason for the considerable change made by the electors in the representation in this chamber. Government supporters are not prepared to recognize that what has happened is merely the expression of the will of the Australian people through the ballot-box. That expression of their will .should be accepted without question ; there should be no post-mortem, and no argument. 

 - Senator Dein seems to delight in the unsavoury details of certain happenings in his own State. He glories in the revelations made in the autopsy room. The gruesome details of the political autopsy are as welcome to him as are the details of other postmortem examinations. 

 Senator McBride also said that Australians had sporting instincts and sympathy with the under-dog. He went on to say that he thought that that might be the reason for the overwhelming victory of the Labour party in the Senate; he thought that the people were sympathetic with the lone three members of the Opposition in this chamber. ' 1 believe that the Senate vote in every State is always a clearer indication of the real will of the people than is the vote recorded in support of candidates for the House of Representatives. I believe that the electors vote for Senate candidates on broad questions of principle and policy, and arc not deflected by personal considerations, such as their regard for a particular candidate who represents the more restricted area of a federal division for the House of Representatives. 
If the honorable senator wishes to know my explanation of the many pleasant things which have occurred recently, I shall have to see him privately in my room, for this speech E wish to make in my own way.  
I may as well inform  Senator Dein  now that before the Opposition finishes its contribution to the Address-in-Reply he himself will get the castigation that is due to him because of that interjection. I remind the honorable senator that the Opposition in this chamber now consists of five members, instead of the three who constituted its forces here before the election. The honorable senators who have already swelled the ranks of the Opposition are as capable as is  Senator Dein  - and in saying that I do not flatter them. 
I am not easily astounded at remarks made by enthusiastic Nationalists, but I was almost rendered speechless when  Senator McBride  said that the Government had received a clear mandate from the people. Had it not been for the unfortunate political accident which occurred in South Australia, the Government would have been in a minority in this chamber. I promise the Government - it is more a threat than a promise - that after the 1st July next its supporters will have to be more regular in their attendance than they have been in the past, or the Government will be defeated in this chamber. Some Government supporters who never fail to draw their parliamentary allowance are very frequently and continuously absent. Labour senators are professional politicians. Unlike almost every supporter of the Government in this chamber, they do not give attention to their senatorial duties as a kind of side line. While they are in Parliament, their parliamentary duties are their sole avocation and purpose. If, as  Senator McBride  claims, the Government has  received a mandate from the people, I can assure the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  that he will have a hard job when he endeavours to implement that mandate in this chamber. In  the capacity of a candid friend,  Senator McBride  admonished the Government that it should be more mindful of the Senate- in the future. The Government will be just as mindful of the Senate as the Senate is entitled to. If this chamber does not get the respect and consideration from the Government to which it is entitled, it is only because so many honorable senators are apathetic. If government supporters will get the same high  conception of service and of their parliamentary duties as honorable members of the Opposition, there will be no lack of respect for this chamber.  Senator McBride  went on to say that the main issues outlined in the GovernorGeneral's Speech could be classified under the heading " Security - National, Social and Industrial ". He then proceeded to enlarge upon the fact that Australia must be ever ready to help the British Empire. I do not know what he means by that happy generalization. Has the honorable senator any knowledge of what is happening in international affairs to-day, or of what has been happening in international affairs, particularly so fur as Europe is concerned, during the last 25 years? If he has, what is it that he expects Australia to do in taking its part in the protection of the British Empire? Does he mean that, willy-nilly, Australia must automatically become involved, or be prepared to become involved, in any struggle which the British Government might feel inclined to undertake in order to protect its commercial interests in certain foreign countries in which Australia has no interests at the moment? If Australia had such interests, it would not be able to protect them. Does he mean that when Great Britain is in danger Australian men should do as they did before in a similar crisis? The answer to that question is written in Australian history, but that is different from pledging Australia at Imperial Conferences, and by implication in speeches in this chamber, to become involved automatically, in any game that is being played on the international chess board. In any case, the fate . of the Empire is not decided a,t Imperial conferences, it is decided by secret diplomacy and the negotiation of pacts, of which nobody knows anything until they have been concluded or disclosed when war is imminent. I make these remarks because it is time that in this chamber a stop were put to the repeated sneer that the Labour party has no sense of its obligations and responsibilities to the British Empire. 

 Senator McBride had something to say also concerning the pact about to be made between Great Britain and America. He added that he believed that the manufacturing interests .would, as usual, make themselves vocal in connexion with any such agreement, but he was not quite sure that the primary industries, or their representatives, would receive equal consideration with the secondary industries. Such a suggestion would' come with good grace from a. member of the Opposition in this chamber. I hope however, that the Government will make a note of this comment by its candid friend. It is time that the Government of this country was actuated only by an Australian outlook and sentiment in respect of every one of these matters. I shall have a better opportunity later to debate the' proposed Anglo-American agreement, but at the moment I emphasize that every preference given by Australia to the manufactured goods of another country means that some Australian workman at present employed will be thrown out of his job to face, with his family, all the horrors of unemployment. So long as the Government does not forget this fact ; so long as it has an Australian outlook, and ceases to wave flags in order to seduce the mentality of its supporters, things will be all right. 

 Senator McBride proceeded to deal with the matter of monetary reform. With all due respect to the honorable senator, I suggest that he is quite unfitted to debate this subject. For instance, be spoke of the intricacies of finance. That is a swindle and sophistry which has continually been "put over" the people in the past. There is nothing intricate whatever about finance; it is one of the simplest things in the world to-day. A banker sells and buys money and credit in exactly the same way, andwith exactly the same object, as a draper buys and sells calico and a grocer deals in sugar, namely, in order to. make a profit. Dealing with the report of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Reform,  Senator McBride  said that he was glad to see that the Government was doing some of the things which the commission recommended. The Government is doing none of those things, nor does it foreshadow any intention of instituting any one of the fundamental reforms which the commission advocated. 1 suspect that the honorable senator has not read the commission's report, otherwise he would not make such ill-digested comments on it. One thing the commission did recommend was that in future no individual, or combination of individuals, should be given a charter to establish a banking concern, except under licence from the Government so that the Government could control such operations. Summed up, the commission's report means this: Realizing the tremendous power that private banking has acquired in Australia we recommend, not that such concerns should be wiped out in favour of the Labour party's policy of nationalization, not that the Government should go the " whole hog " - because that is contrary to the Government's policy - but that the Government should take measures to cripple the power of private banks for evil in the economic life of the nation. The commission's report is a wholesale condemnation of private banking institutions. I propose, however, to deal more fully with this matter at a later opportunity. 

 Senator McBride also had something to say about aviation. 'Civil aviation has been developed in Australia, probably to a greater extent, considering the vastness of our areas and the smallness of our population, than in any other country. Queensland, 1 believe, has been more successful in the development of civil aviation  and its allied services, than has any other State of the Commonwealth. Even a thick and thin supporter of this composite Government, like  Senator McBride,  however, has reached the conviction that in this instance at any rate, private enterprise cannot be trusted where profits are concerned. Consequently, he suggests that certain things should be done in respect of the control of aviation in this country. It is a disgrace to the Government, that, in Australia, with a world war just over the threshold - if we are to take notice, not of newspaper reports, but of the facts as we are able to get them from the other side of the world - we have not yet got an aerodrome or landing ground anything like efficiently equipped for safety, let alone for use in the event of national emergency. Where it exists at all, the lighting of our aerodromes is out of date as are other technical and mechanical needs. Summing up developments in respect of aviation in. Australia, I say that the Government lias been most unwise in that it has allowed private enterprise to secure control of this wonderful potential arm of defence.  Senator McBride  senses the difficulty which may arise from such a development. I wish to know whether the honorable senator would hand over to private enterprise the lighting of our harbours, the mooring of our harbour buoys, and the establishment, maintenance and functioning of our lighthouses? Does he believe in private enterprise armies for the defence of this country? Of course he does not. So soon as the most earnest nationalist wakes up to the implication of these developments, and so soon as he realizes that his own personal safety is involved, he begins to see that the profit-maker cannot be trusted, and then he clamours for Government control. However, he keeps sneering at those who advocate Government control in respect of other equally important matters. 
The honorable senator went on to congratulate the Government, and at this stage of his speech he made most extravagant statements, employing numerous superlatives. He said that the country had not only got back to normal, but had actually achieved abnormal prosperity. From the policy speech of the Prime Minister he quoted the following sentence: "We have climbed out of the valley of depression on to the sunlit hills of prosperity". I wish to give the Senate very seriously and earnestly some evidence that there are still some sections of the  community  - the underdogs to whom  Senator McBride  referred - who have not got back to normal, and are not better off than they were in the depression, but are actually still . in the valley and shadows of economic degradation and poverty. I shall not exaggerate in respect of this matter ; I do not propose to quote evidence from Labour people or newspapers, but shall give evidence from the mouths of people who, in all probability, are supporters of this Government and who, for all I know, may be personal friends of  Senator McBride.  Describing conditions at Glebe, Sydney, during the period of the election campaign,, the  Church Standard,  a paper published in New South Wales, stated - " A city of Dreadful Night " - " a dreary, depressing wilderness of slum hovels," is how the  Church Standard,  in a recent editorial, describes property owned by the Church of England at Glebe, Sydney. " A terrible Nemesis waits on a church and a community which complacently tolerate such crimes against humanity," the article declares. 
After referring at length to an inspection of the church property, the leader writer continues : - "We returned to town, sick with sim mc and indignation. By chance our eyes lighted on a list of anthems to bo sung at the Cathedral during July : ' The Lord is My Shepherd,'  From Thy Love as a Father.' * Thou Will Keep Him in Perfect Peace.' "The contrast cut into our minds like livid lightning fire - on the one hand, the welldressed, comfortably-housed church people singing soothing things about the Father's loving care and the perfect peace which He gives to  His  elect; and, on the other- hand, leaking roofs, damp, musty rooms, and ugly dilapidated dwellings, in which the Father's children 'live like herded swine'." 
If  Senator McBride  is sufficiently interested, I can supply him with additional information on this subject. During the recent election campaign,  Dr. John  Dale, the Health Officer of the City of Melbourne, one of the largest cities in the Commonwealth, addressing a meeting of health inspectors who are primarily occupied in ensuring the purity of the food supplies of the people, said - 
To hell with purity of food. What is important is that the public should get sufficient food of the right kind. 
Ensuring its purity is a last century job. In thiscentury we know exactly how much, what kind, and when to give the food on which health is built. 
With these foods we can build children into perfect physical specimens. We can produce these foods in abundance. The biggest job of health inspecting authorities is to see that everyone, especially children, gets his fill. 
It is the responsibility of this Government to see that the conditions are such that every person has his fill. In November last, Bishop Johnson, in speaking to a motion moved by the Bishop of Wangaratta, said - 
People who condemned the merciless slaughter of women and children in China and Spain must also condemn the conditions which degraded child life in Australia. 
I urge upon the Governments the necessity of maintaining proper housing and feeding for the people, and that all slum conditions should be abolished as speedily as possible. In Australian capital cities men, women and children lived in wretched houses which were a disgrace to the country. 
Notwithstanding these statements concerning the conditions existing in Australian capital cities, honorable senators opposite still assert that the depression has passed, and that a vast majority of the Australian people are living in comfort. 
Apparently the honorable senator has information on the subject of housing in his own State which has not yet been brought to my notice. Giving evidence in connexion with the milk inquiry recently,  Dr. E.  H. Stephen said - 
Milk consumption by families in suburban industrial areas is totally inadequate and tended to breed a C3 class population. 
I have quoted only briefly from these statements in order to show  Senator McBride  and other honorable senators opposite how deplorable are the condi tions in some parts of Australia. They who believe that - 
God's in His Heaven - 
All's right with the world,  have only to look beneath the surface to realize what is going on. We should deal with the realities of life. Only this morning I read a report in the  Canberra Times, a  portion of which reads - 
The Minister for Health  (Sir Kingsley Wood),  moving the second reading of the Populations Statistics Bill, in the House of Commons, paid a tribute to the Australian and New Zealand information. 
He drew attention to the alarming fall in the birth rate in Britain. He said that if it continued at the present rate, the population would fall to 35,000,000 in 1970 and 5,000.000 within a century. 
The Minister said that Australians and New Zealanders, like the English, would be the first to resent unnecessary investigations, yet for years they had freely and fully answered questions for statistic purposes. 

 Mr. A. P. Herbert, who recently sponsored the Amending Divorce Legislation, challenged  Sir Kingsley  Wood to name any part of Australia or New Zealand where the people had been asked for the records of former marriage, particulars of former issue where the child was illegitimate or other questions attempting to incriminate the parents or likely to result in legal proceedings connected with bigamy, adultery and bastardy. 

 Sir Kingsley Wood asked for time to consider the question.  He opined that, like birth control, the fear of war did not appear to be a substantial reason for the decline in the birth rate. 
Even stud horses do not breed with the same alacrity if guns are fired around them, or heavy burdens are placed on their backs. 
The primary cause of the decline of the birth-rate in Great Britain and in Australia is poverty. Birth control is practised because it has become an economic necessity. The burdens we have placed upon the backs of the people are too heavy for them to bear. When honorable senators opposite recognize that fact they will not be so glib, and they will not deal with pressing social and economic problems in the superficial way they do. 

 Senator Abbott said that he had the privilege this morning of witnessing the screening of a great picture. I too saw the picture and consider it a wonderful production. I am grateful to  Mr. Stuart  Doyle, the Australian representative of theR..K.O. Corporation, for giving to the members of this Parliament the opportunity to see the film in such comfortable circumstances. But I remind 

 Senator Abbott that some of the highlights of the picture were a condemnation of the policy which he supports, and an illumination of the policy to which the members of the Opposition have always subscribed. We were shown a chronological record of many important events in British history, not the least of which were the contributions made by the late Queen Victoria during her life. Mention was made of Magna Charta. Honorable senators opposite are the lineal descendants of those who opposed the principles of Magna Charta. Reference was also made to the failure of the potato crop in Ireland hundreds of years ago and the frightful famine which resulted, owing largely to the policy of the British Government, by which the whole of Ireland's manufactures were destroyed - a policy which honorable senators opposite, had they been alive at that time, would have supported. We were also reminded of the Corn laws, in the fight for the repeal of which my father fought. Honorable senators opposite and those holding similar views always oppose any reform. Any advance has been gained -only after a bitter struggle. Fortunately, the British Constitution is sufficiently elastic and the monarchy sufficiently intelligent to enable reforms to be adopted. That is why tho British Government is the only stable government in Europe to-da.y. All these reforms were accomplished in the teeth of the opposition of persons who now have the temerity and political insolence to pillory members of .the Opposition. We were also reminded of the riots on Constitution Hill. The members of the Opposition were acquainted with all that was brought under our notice this morning. We are still carrying on the same fight, in the interests of the people, and we shall continue with renewed vigour after the 1st July. We also heard a reproduction of speeches by Cobden, Bright, Gladstone, Chamberlain and Disraeli. If those persons were in this chamber they would be in Opposition, because they could not support the policy of this Government.  Senator Abbott  also spoke of the wonderful work of the British Government in the matter of disarmament, but he was not gracious enough to give the Labour Government of Great 
Britain and the late  Mr. Arthur  Henderson - 'a Labour man - credit for the good work he did in that respect. 
Not one Nationalist leader supported disarmament. 
We know what occurred at that conference. However honorable senators opposite may sneer and indict the Opposition, they cannot disregard the fact that recently there has been feverish expenditure upon rearmament. We are told that the depression has passed and that conditions are now prosperous. Conditions improved, not as a result of the policy of this Government, but owing to the increase of overseas prices for our primary products as a result of the fear of war, thus bringing about artificial prosperity. 
I appreciate the interjection of the right honorable senator, and I suggest that he pass on the complete knowledge which he possesses on this subject to some of his colleagues who more seriously need it than I.  Mr. Davidson,  the general manager of tire Bank of New South Wales, said that governments must realize that the present prosperity is due entirely to money being expended in every country on rearmament. That expenditure, he said, is for the destruction of human life; not one penny of it is used for improving the conditions of the people. This expenditure must cease at some time, and we shall then be faced with a worse depression than that from which we have partly emerged. National governments should be preparing now to undertake public works, because private enterprise would .not be able to meet the slump which must come in 1938. This Government is piling up for itself a great deal of trouble, because it has to harmonize the disintegrating forces, which, under pressure, it has been obliged to include in their composite Ministry, some of which are to be seen on the ministerial bench this afternoon. In addition to this disturbing element, there is, on the horizon, another depression, compared with which the one from which we are just emerging was a Sunday school picnic. Notwithstanding the portents, the Government so far has done nothing to meet the threatened trouble. I say, definitely, that rearmament must cease, and dis-armament bc universally adopted, either as the outcome of agreement between governments of the Empire and other countries, or as a result of pressure exerted by the League of Nations. A continuance of the present maniacal and suicidal policy of rearmament will desolate the world economically, even if it does not lead to the outbreak of another world war. I therefore say that on the Government of the Commonwealth, as well as the governments of other countries, there devolves the tremendous responsibility of reversing present rearmament policies, and getting the people out of the mess in which they now find themselves. 
I should be glad to think that they would read it; but I doubt that it would have much effect on them unless their powers of perception are greater than those of the honorable gentleman. 
I turn now to some of the statements contained in the Speech delivered yesterday by the Governor-General. At the outset, I should like to make it clear that I do not hold  His Excellency  responsible for the trivialities and superfluities contained in it. With all respect, I assert  that there is not one worthwhile statement in the . Speech from start to finish. I have already referred to the proposed trade treaty between Great Britain and the United States of America. When that proposal comes before us in concrete form I shall probably have an opportunity to refer to the Ottawa agreement. Honorable senators will recall that over and over again in this chamber I have declared that Ottawa was a failure, and that its principles could not stand. 
I know that. Government supporters never give heed to the words of wisdom from Opposition senators until it is too late. Had they accustomed themselves to mind our warnings, possibly they would not now be  worrying  about what will happen Avith sixteen Opposition senators in this chamber after June next. But that by the way. 
I notice somewhat lengthy reference in the Governor-General's Speech to the Empire air-mail service. Concern ing  that  proposal I would say that if there is one thing which this Government has bungled it is the proposed air-mail service between Australia and the Mother Country. Ministers have dilly-dallied and shifted their positions so frequently that one hardly knew, from day to day, what Avas happening. We  were  told that inquiries had been made; that the Government had experts on the job, and that negotiations had been entered into to start the service at' an early date. 
I should like to know if the Minister responsible for the negotiations is proud of the position that has arisen. Not long ago we had the spectacle of that Minister declaring in the House of Representatives that he would never yield to the proposals put forward by the British Government; but not-  withstanding  all his protestations lie did yield. Now Ave are told that arrangements have been made to inaugurate the long-promised service. I am afraid, however, that there is a good deal of uncertainty about the immediate future. So far as Ave are able to gather, there is some possibility of a partial service - a makeshift arrangement - being inaugurated, pending consideration of the complete scheme. In the meantime if, unhappily, Avar should break out, the Common.wealth, in the absence of an effective Empire air mail service, W111 be exposed, possibly, to the direst Avar risks. I notice also that the Government states that negotiations are proceeding for an. air mail service to be established between Australia and New Zealand, thus forming a further link in the Empire service. 
Another paragraph of the GovernorGeneral's Speech refers to national insurance in. respect of health and pensions. Of that proposal I say deliberately that the Government, as at present constituted, has no intention whatever of bringing in a national health insurance scheme with any other motive but, one. Several honorable senators, some of whom. have been promoted recently - 1 aru not going to mention names, but there should be no trouble in identifying them - declared in this chamber that Australia could not much longer carry the burden of the existing pensions payments.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  is one of the protagonists of this attitude. He thinks that we ought to call a halt in our social legislation. I intend to tell the people that this Government has become interested in the national and health insurance merely for the purpose of lifting the financial burden from the shoulders of the well-to-do, and placing a heavier' portion on those who are least able to bear taxation. I make this statement deliberately, because I know it to be true. I am not saying this with a desire to be unkind to present Senate Ministers. I admit that the new Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  is one of the kindest of men; he is so wonderfully softhearted in this chamber that at times he almost moves me to tears. I feel sure, however, that when he sits at the Cabinet table to consider national health and insurance schemes, he will be one of thosewho will decide to take a portion at least of the financial burden for social services from the shoulders of people who are well able to bear it, and place it on the shoulders of those who are not. 
As to the Government's proposals with regard to unemployment insurance I can only say that I do not understand how Ministers can " get away " with it. By this I mean not that I do not know how they "put it over" their supporters here and in the House of Representatives, but that I cannot understand how they can salve their consciences. At times I am tempted to think that when they leave the Cabinet room and retire to the quietude of their homes or hotels, they must ask themselves, "Now, what was it that I said to-day? Surely I ought to be ashamed of myself for having said what I did ? " 
I have no doubt that  Senator Dein  does sometimes have such thoughts about me. For my part [ always think that he always ought to be ashamed of what he says here. At all events, we are told that the Government intends to do something in connexion with this important subject. The Governor-General's Speech declares - 
Officers of the Commonwealth and State govern ments have made an exhaustive examination of various financial and administrative aspects of Unemployment Insurance. 
Successive ministries have been examining this problem for the last twenty years. Now we learn that this Government is still making an " exhaustive examination " of the subject. I am wondering when the Ministers will be completely exhausted. The Speech goes on to state - 
Having received a report on the results of this examination, my advisers will again approach the State governments with a view to arriving at a .satisfactory solution of  this  problem. 
Apparently the Government is still in the negotiating stage. So far, it has done practically nothing, and the people are still waiting for unemployment insurance. 
It is significant that the Speech contains  ito  reference to the Government's determination to deal with the constitutional difficulties; no suggestion that the Government intends, in 1937, to give the Commonwealth a new suit of constitutional clothing to replace the one given to it by ' the people in 1900. Thenis not one word in the Speech of the Government's intention to endeavour to secure transfer to the Commonwealth of some of the powers now vested in the different States. Ministers evidently are not prepared to take their courage in both hands, and tell the people of the constitutional difficulties with which wc are confronted, and how they propose to meet them. 
Recently, we had the unhappy spectacle of a referendum  debacle  in connexion with which, unfortunately for my political reputation. I was supporting the Government. As a result of the vote on that occasion, the Commonwealth Govern-  ment cannot move hand or foot to deal with many important problems affecting the people of the Commonwealth without "exhaustive" inquiries and negotiations with implacable State ministries. This being the position, it is lamentable that the GovernorGeneral's Speech should contain all this " twitter " about national insurance and unemployment insurance. My intention now is to tell the people who are looking for this form of Commonwealth social legislation that they will certainly die in (he ditch unless constitutional reform is speeded up considerably. 
The only reference in the GovernorGeneral's Speech to monetary and banking reform is brief mention of its intention to establish a mortgage department of the Commonwealth Bank. Do not Ministers realize that the reason why people are in urgent need of relief from mortgage obligations is that banking and finance are in the hands of profit-making private institutions? Do they not realize that mortgagors, particularly our primary producers, are up to their ears in debt and misery? And do they not realizehow urgent is the need for positive action to remove the causes instead of tinkering with the effects? The Government's proposal may give slight relief in some cases, but the majority of the people concerned will have to continue the daily grind from Sunday morning to Saturday night in order to carry on. 
This paragraph in the GovernorGeneral's Speech almost fires me with enthusiasm - 
My advisers will submit proposals for the appointment of the Select Committee, representing both Houses of Parliament, to investigate and report on the method of electing the Senate. 
I thought it would come. There was no need for crystal gazing or star gazing to divine the probable trend of Ministers' thoughts. I knew that the  debacle  among Government Senate candidates would spur Ministers to do what the Prime Minister, in 1934, declared would be done, when 54 per cent, of the voters returned all of the eighteen Senate candidates, and the remaining 46 per cent, had no representation in this chamber. It is obvious that something ought to be done to rectify that position. 
I stand corrected; but I am certain that the Government would not now be making suggestions for Senate election reform if the recent appeal to the people had not resulted in the solid defeat of Government candidates. But I am not complaining. 
I am not complaining about the result of the recent Senate election. I do, however, object to the method of electing the Senate, though my reasons are not the same as those actuating the Government. I believe in compulsory voting. But if we compel an elector to go to the poll we have no right to force him to vote for candidates whom he does not wish to be elected. In my view the present system is wrong. I contend that if an elector votes for the three Senate candidates whom he wishes elected, and does not vote for those of whom he disapproves, his vote should not be declared invalid. Let me illustrate what I mean by citing my own experience. In order to make sure that my colleagues, Senators Courtice and Brown, not to mention myself, were returned to this chamber, I had not only to do the natural thing and mark my ballot-paper Brown 1, Collings 2, Courtice 3, but also to vote for other candidates whom I hate politically. If I had not voted the full ticket my vote would have been declared informal. I object to any voter being required to show preferences for candidates for whom he has no liking and no preference. The Government intends to appoint a committee representative ofboth Houses, and I presume all parties, to consider the present system. Before the committee is appointed the Government should arrange for a conference in Canberra of the chief returning officers of allStates, as well as divisional returning officers, in order that these experts may have an opportunity to evolve a more acceptable proposal than the present method of electing senators. I suggest that before any subjects are chosen for reference to the proposed committee, or, at any rate, before the committee sits at all, it should be given the advantage of the expert knowledge which those gentlemen undoubtedly have. I hope that suggestion to the Government will not fall on deaf ears. 
Reference is made in the speech to migration. I warn the Government that two aspects of this subject should be taken immediately into consideration. Another shipload of Southern Europeans arrived in this country within the last seven or ten days. These people have been distributed fairly evenly over Australia; 50 of them, who do not speak one word of English, have gone to Queensland, and the Queensland. Government had no say in the matter at all. I warn the Commonwealth Government that it is doing the worst possible thing in setting up in this way, in different parts of Australia, communities which will never assimilate with the Australians surrounding them, but will remain apart, speaking their own language, having their own newspapers, and forcing Australian Governments to issue their proclamations in two or three languages. I say that that ought to stop  instanter.  Not another one of these people should be brought into this country. I wish to say further to the Government that we shall oppose - and in this we believe we have the people of Australia behind us - even one migrant being brought into this country who will need a job when he comes into it, until first every capable and willing Australian has a job. We are sure that, if the Government adopts that policy, it will not have to ask or plead for migrants. Rather will migrants of our own blood, aspirations and ideals, and sharing our belief in democratic institutions, pour into Australia. They will come here in thousands, once the Government can declare that in this country there is no need for an able and willing man to be unemployed. 
Another paragraph in the speech is - 
My Ministers have under consideration proposals for affording to the licensees of B class broadcasting stations a greater measure of security of tenure. Legislation on this matter will be submitted to Parliament. 
With all respect, I remind the PostmasterGeneral that I have asked, in this chamber, for a record of the revenue of B class broadcasting stations, the names of the people who own them, the amounts they paid for their licences, and their tenure, and have been told in reply that it is impossible to obtain any particulars of their revenue. If the paragraph that I have quoted means that the Government intends to make the present condition of those licensees better than it is to-day, then a definite swindle is being perpetrated upon the listeners-in of this country. The B class stations are making thousands upon thousands of pounds of profit, and should never have been allowed to come under private commercial control. Most of the broadcasting services of this country, outside the national network, are now controlled by the great nationalist newspapers. We cannot, or should not, allow wireless and broadcasting to be other than a Government undertaking. Will we never profit by the experience and the conduct of other countries in this connexion? I suggest that the Postmaster-General should direct one of his officers to supply him with a summarized account of the situation in every other country. That information should be easily obtainable. I hope the matter will receive the consideration of the Government. I sincerely regret that I am unable to compliment the Government upon the Governor-General's Speech, or the mover and seconder of the AddressinReply upon the remarks they made in submitting it to the. Senate. 
. -Honorable senators will perhaps forgive me if, by comparison with the last  speaker,  I make my remarks in a minor key. The assembling of a new parliament must cause, in the not too insensitive member, a diversity of feelings. First, one's thoughts turn to those colleagues to whom the electors have not been so kind as one would wish. Their impending departure will result,I am sure, in depriving this chamber of the' benefit of their knowledge and counsel, and will leave honorable senators bereft of associates from whom little that was not kindly and helpful has emanated. In this, I disregard, as I must, the variations in political outlook as voiced by the parties represented in this chamber. In the second place, a contemplation of the prospective gaps in the ranks of the thirty and six is apt to remind one of his own possible fate should the electors be led into error, not necessarily as the result of one's sins of commission or omission, but rather through the overpersuasiveness of some at present unknown aspirant for public service. Nevertheless, in this regard, I am assured by those of much wider worldly wisdom and experience than my own that it was ever thus, and that little is to be gained by indulging in vain regrets, for, though many are called, few are chosen. Before I leave the personal aspect of the elections, I should like to congratulate those who have been successful at the polls, and particularly to join with others in welcoming  Senator Cunningham,  a colleague of mine from Western Australia,  who has had considerable j&gt; rliamentary and ministerial experience, and will, I am sure, contribute much of value to our deliberations, and make his mark upon this assembly. 1 must, too, add my congratulations to the two senators who have been promoted to ministerial office, and express the hope that success will reward the ability and energy displayed by them in their willing efforts for the better government, of the country. 
Passing on to other matters, the will of the people - and here I reiterate what has already been said by two previous speakers - as expressed through the ballot-box, may be accepted as an indication that the good work of the Lyons Government has met with approval, and that, consequently, it is desirable that it should proceed further along its set path, leading to security, internal peace, and development. No one may make a calm and dispassionate survey of Australia and its existing conditions, in comparison with the financial and industrial chaos of seven years ago, and fail to be genuinely astonished at the remarkable recovery that has been made. I need not cite figures. Every honorable senator knows that there are large stocks of useful groups on which to draw. But the improvement is sensed ; it is noticeable in the appearance of the people, in the smaller number of unemployed, in the savings bank deposits, in the increased patronage of amusements and the luxury trades, and the greater stability and resilience in the finances of the States. Apart from these telling factors, there is the beneficial advance in our external trade and relations, and, by no means least of all, the increased prestige of the nation in the eyes of the world, consequent upon the successful emergence from a great ordeal, and a conscientious observance of obligations despite a period of great stress. This result, as every one knows, has not been attained without considerable sacrifice and suffering on the part of the people. 
In many respects, Australia is a most favoured country. To no small extent its geographical position leaves it free to work for its own ends. It has a congenial climate, great natural wealth, and a homogeneous people, fundamentally sound in politics, possessed of vision and progressive in ideals. Here is an excellent field for good government and all that that phrase may convey. Australia is deserving of it, and I am sure that honorable senators opposite desire this as much as we on this side do. If I may say so, and I hope to be believed, I am by no means opposed to Labour ideals, nor, I think, are  many  other honorable senators who move about the world with their eyes and ears open, for I am convinced that, during the last 80 years, the activity and entry into the legislatures of direct representatives of industry has had a most beneficial effect upon the social life of communities. This applies particularly to Australia, but, at the present stage, the prospects are brighter with a truly national party in power. My reason for this deduction is that, at ths moment, we are confronted with issues of great importance with which .Labour, as at present constituted, cannot successfully deal. If I may offer this criticism, the rank and file of labour, conspicuously active in the management of caucus, fails in comprehension of the larger things which are really important to the lives of the people, and gives more weight than is justified to matters of less degree, or domestic matters peculiar to its own organizations. It is not that we are entirely without such hindrances ourselves, but there is this compensation, that the supporters of the Government concede greater liberty of action to the leaders elected to guide and direct the affairs of  the nation. One wishes well for the leaders of the party in opposition, but if a search is made through the records of the last dozen years or so, there will be found many indications of opportunities lost, and also opportunities marred. But, as I have said, we are, and I hope will remain, a progressive community. We are learning tolerance, and can cultivate understanding, without which no party can command the goodwill of the people and govern successfully. 
As regards this chamber, there seems to be a desire for some alteration in the system of election of its members, or, alternatively, in the methods of voting at such elections; it is quite true, as the Leader of the Opposition said, that this desire' has become peculiarly vocal recently. The last appeal to the people has furnished some extraordinary instances of confusion, or failure to understand what is required of an elector, and, therefore, one must welcome the proposal of the Prime Minister to take some action towards a clarification of the electoral system. At the same time, I do hope that the great value to the nation of the Senate will not be under-emphasized, but that it will, on the contrary, be even more clearly shown that the true interests and rights of the States can be promoted and conserved only by a refusal to allow any interference with the status and powers of the chamber especially provided in the Constitution for the States' protection. 
As to the immediate future, the task confronting the Government is no light one. Finance must, as always, need the strongest and most cunning guiding hand. The improvements of recent years should be maintained, and the tendency to increase expenditure curtailed. The forthcoming loan conversion may cause some temporary anxiety, but, our credit being what it is, the issue is beyond doubt. Revenue has been abundantly forthcoming, but merely as the result of taxation in various forms. Taxation is still a heavy burden upon every section of the people, and some relief beyond that already afforded by the Government is urgently necessary. At the same time I am not unmindful of the commitments of the Administration ; and those commitments are not lessened by the seemingly never-ending claims made by the States for more and more assistance. 
It is gratifying to note the improvement of our export trade. From a rough survey of world conditions it would appear that the avenues for expansion lie in countries to the north of Australia, but cannot well be exploited because of the present disturbed conditions there. 
The accepted policy of protection for our secondary industries ensures a continuance of their satisfactory development, but I again urge a constant and watchful regard for the interests of the smaller States upon which this policy does to some extent, react unfavorably, and even harshly. Here it might not be out of place to pay a tribute to the work of the Tariff Board. Its proceedings range over an extensive area, and one cannot justly withhold commendation because of the beneficial results achieved in many instances. So far as Western Australia is concerned, the primary industries must occupy an important place in my consideration. I am glad that improved prices and the promise of a good season have given much-needed encouragement to the sorely pressed farmers. Operations under the Farmers Debt Adjustment Act have been controlled by a board, which has secured excellent results in the utilization of the money made available for relief by this Parliament. Great benefit has also been derived from the concessions made in respect of the use of fertilizers. I hope that the fertilizer subsidy will be continued so that pastures may be further improved and grazing areas extended. It is natural to assume that there has been some investigation of tlie possibility of protecting producers against losses arising from droughts, floods, pests and other evils that beset their operations. The economic dislocation occasioned by these recurring afflictions is so far-reaching in its effects that the Government would be justified - indeed, it would be an essay in pure statesmanship - in taking any practicable measures to improve general conditions and ensure more stable prospects. The distress suffered by the wheat industry ls  comparatively well known, as are also the measures authorized by this Parliament to alleviate it. I believe that the help afforded has been greatly appreciated, but I regret that the Government of Western Australia has v.ot done all that it might have done in the same direction. 
But it is with the pastoral industry that I particularly wish to deal at the moment. Those who control it display a high standard of public ethics; they have refrained from unduly forcing upon the Government their claims for special consideration. By way of illustration, I shall relate what has happened in Western Australia as a result of the bad seasons of the last few years. The sheep shorn in the pastoral areas of Western Australia in  1935  numbered  5,448,677,  and they produced a clip of  41,801,975  lb. of wool. The figures for  1936  were  3,558,295  sheep and a clip of  21,798,970  lb. of wool. The drought between the  1935  and  1936  shearings therefore accounted for a loss of  1,S90,372  sheep and  20,003,005  lb. of wool, representing respectively losses of  34.7  per cent, and  47.6  per cent. Those figures relate only to the pastoral areas. Moreover, since the  1936  shearing substantial losses, which it is impossible yet to estimate, have occurred. Even now, although bountiful rains have definitely broken the drought in a large portion of the pastoral areas of Western Australia, in other parts of the State, principally the Western Gascoyne district, south of Carnarvon, and portions of the Murchison and Eastern Goldfields, where the country is not in a position to withstand another dry summer, there is urgent need of good soaking rains. Whilst the figures which I have quoted cover the industry as a whole, there have been numerous individual cases in which the losses have been disastrous, amounting in many instances to as much as  90  per cent, of the flocks. The task of reconstructing the depleted flocks is a formidable one, and, even were finance available, it is impossible to see where sheep of the type required could be obtained. One of the most serious aspects of the problem is that many properties have not had lambs on them for three years, and, consequently, there are no young sheep coming on from which, to breed. Some time ago  Senator Cooper  related similar setbacks to the pastoral industry in Queensland. It would be interesting to know what action, if any, the Government contemplates to deal with this problem. 
From what I have said it will be evident to honorable senators that the claim of Western Australia for special financial assistance is well founded. The pastoral industry of that State is most valuable to Australia, since it contributes largely to revenue, and provides employment in many directions radiating from the great stations in the northern parts of the State. It is, therefore, incumbent on any government to consider earnestly the provision of adequate protection to this, as well as other branches of primary production. 
Coming now to the responsibilities and intentions of the Government in regard to other domestic . matters, I urge the early completion of the promised scheme of social insurance. The people are asking for it, and, indeed, are expecting it. I am somewhat surprised that the Opposition should disregard the natural pride and self-respect of the worker by advocating a non-contributory scheme. 
Disregarding for the moment external affairs, the major issues confronting any Australian Government to-day are the pressing problems of the improvement of public health, the completion of a scheme of national insurance, and the satisfactory absorption of youth into its true position in the community. I admit that, to deal with these subjects successfully, the closest and friendliest cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States is necessary; but surely on no other points of policy in administration should agreement be easier or more cordial. I repeat that Australia is particularly favoured in many respects, and that, consequently, we should aim at the maximum of social security, thereby affording to succeeding generations opportunities as free as possible from handicaps. Probably  ni.ist  honorable senators, in their work as representatives of the people, have realised the need for a better atmosphere for the conduct of negotiations between the Commonwealth and State governments. I am confident that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  and, indeed, all Ministers, realize this need, and will leave nothing undone to bring about the desired condition. In that connexion much is expected from the Inter-State Commission Bill when it emerges in statute form. Goodwill on both sides is a valuable asset; but, if State governments, through lack of candour, will thrust upon the Commonwealth Government at election time the blame for the shortcomings of their own administration, little improvement can be expected. 
I congratulate the Prime Minister oh being returned to lead his Government for a further term. The election has shown that, apart from their attitudes towards a vital principle of national defence, the platforms of the political parties, as voiced by the general body of candidates, were not greatly different. Apparently the Opposition claimed that, had it been in power, it would have acted  with greater expedition ; it would have achieved greater results, and would have spent more of the taxpayers' money ; but its claim was not accepted by the electors - at any rate, not in its entirety - and to-day's happy position is the result. 
Despite the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  as to what constitutes good taste, I must express regret that, before long, the Parliament will lose the services of yourself,  Mr. President,  and of  Senator Pearce.  As a comparative newcomer to this chamber, I speak with diffidence; but any one looking back on your long record of labours for your State and the Commonwealth must realize that courage and integrity, combined with knowledge and eloquence - all of which qualities you,  Mr. President,  have proved that you possess - will have their just "recognition in the high regard in which your name will always be held by the people of your adopted country. Similarly, who can set bounds to the profit to the nation, or assess the merit and standard of the counsel and work of  Senator Pearce  in his 37 years of parliamentary life - the greater part of which has been spent as a member of the King's Government in 
Australia? From my personal experience and knowledge, I can speak of one phase of his work. I say that, as Minister for Defence during the whole period of the Great War, he carried a responsibility unequalled in the Empire since the days of the younger Pitt. He controlled a department which raised, equipped, transported overseas, and maintained in the field, forces greater than any force hitherto engaged in . the wars of Britain. The Australian Imperial Force knows, or knew, that whilst abroad it was fed, equipped, paid, and cared for, on a plane unequalled by any of the Allies. In return, the force, by its battle discipline and achievements, brought high renown to the Commonwealth, and at the same time reflected great credit upon its political administrator. I am sure that should you,  Mr. President,  and  Senator Pearce  again seek and gain the suffrages of the people, you will be warmly welcomed back to this chamber. On the other  hand, should you desire rest and seclusion, then every one here will wish you many years of health, happiness and honour. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Courtice)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to Standing Order 28a I lay on the table my warrant nominating Senators J. Cunningham, A. K. Dein, C. W. Grant and J. B. Hayes a panel to act as Temporary Chairmen of Committees, when requested so to do by the  Chairman  of Committees, or when, the  Chairman  of Committees is absent. 
Pursuant to Standing Order 38 I lay on the table my warrant nominating the following senators to  he  a Committee of Disputed Returns and Qualifications ^Senators J. S. Collings, T. W. Crawford, W. G. Gibson, J. F. Guthrie, H. J. M. Payne, W. Plain and O. Uppill. 
Knowing from experience the inconvenience suffered, and expenditure incurred, by senators elect between the times of their election and swearing-in, I ask the Leader of the Senate whether provision has been, or will, be made by the Government to cover the travelling expenses, postage and telegrams of those newly-elected senators who will not take office until July next 
I understand that some provision is made for senators elect in respect of travelling, but I am not aware of the position with regard to postage and telegrams. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Has the Government been approached in regard to the survey and establishment of reserve empire  air  routes - particularly one connecting the west coast of Australia with the east coast of Africa? 
If so, and in view of the strategical importance attached to the possession of alternative lines of communications in warlike operations, does the Government propose to take any action in the direction suggested? 
If not, why not? 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answer :  - 
Inquiries are bitingmade and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon  notice - 
Is it a fact that the Boys' Employment League of Western Australia has found9,060 positions for boys since its inception, including 1,444 positionsfilled during 1937? 
Has the Government received applications for financial assistance from this deserving league? 
If so, what decision has been arrived at in the matter? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers :  - 
The leaguehas furnished information from time to time regarding the number of youths it has placed in employment. The figures supplied are substantially as stated by the honorable senator. 
Yes. 
The States Grants (Youth Employment) Act 1937 provides for the allocation to the State of Western Australia of the sum of £14,000 on condition that it is used by the State in such manner and subject to such conditions as. the Minister approves in providing facilities for the training for. and the placing in, employment of persons  between  the ages of eighteen and 25 years. The league should place its plans before the Government of Western Australia in order that they may be considered in conjunction with any general scheme tobe submitted by that State under theStates Grants (Youth Employment) Act. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Commerce, upon notice - 
What was thevalue of the exports to Java during 1935, 1936 and 1937, from each State of the Commonwealth? 
Is there a Western Australian in the Trade Commissioner's Office at Batavia? 
If not, why not? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer: - 

<graphic href="155332193712021_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

Above figures are in Australian currency. Exports to Java only are not recorded separately. 
Yes. 
See answer to 2. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that air mail letters are carried to and from Tasmania without extra postage, whilst air mail letters to and from Western Australia are subject to a surcharge of 3d. per half ounce? 2.If so, why was this concession not concurrently extended to the. State of Western Australia? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
Yes. 
The arrangement was introduced as a means of overcoming the disabilities arising from the irregular service provided by surface transport. The Government at present has under consideration the provision of air services for the carriage of first class mail matter between all States capitals without surcharge. 
asked the Minis  ter  representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that tenders for the manufacture of £100,000 worth of arms have been called, application for which will close on 10th December next? 
ls it also a fact that in connexion with the manufacture ofeighteen-pounder sheil bodies and percussion primers which have been manufactured at Maribyrnong, complete records of manufacture showing all the necessary processus have been prepared in order to assist tenderers, and that these records are now to be made available to interested persons for their private profit? 
Is it a fact that provisionhas been made for prospective tenderers to indicate the assistance they require in the way of additional plant if the Government accepts their tenders? 
Is the Government in favour of creating private vested interests in arms manufacture? 
-The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers :  - 
Tenders closing on the 10th December have been invited for certain shell and bomb bodies and ammunition components and stores. The tenders do not include arms. The total value of the supplies will be dependent on the accepted tendered rates. 
Records of manufacture for theeighteenpounder shell bodies and percussion primers arc available in order to assist prospective tenderers in the preparation of their tenders. 
It is intended generally that tenderers' existing plants and equipment shall bc used, but whore these are not completely adequate, it is open for the tenderer to indicate any additional plant and equipment he will require. 
The action being taken by the Government is designed to ascertain if commercial capacity exists in Australia for the manufacture nf the class of items for which the tenders are being invited. Any orders placed as a result of the tenders will be purely educational ones, and will not create private vested interests in arms manufacture. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What is the reason why in the case of some positions in the Commonwealth Public Service, applications to fill such positions are invited from permanent officers only of the Commonwealth Public Service, while in the case of other positions there is no provision that applicants need be permanent officers of the Commonwealth Public Service? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer :  - 
Applications  for  vacant positions in the Commonwealth Public Service are open to persons from without the Service only in those cases in which  it  is considered that applicants  with  the requisite qualifications may not be available from within the Service. In all other circumstances applications are confined to officers of the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
How many yards of cloth, made from synthetic wool, have been imported  into  Australia during the last twelve months? 
Is the importation  of  this commodity increasing? 
Has the Government any information concerning the growth of the synthetic wool industry ? 
If so. will the Minister convey such information to senators? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers :  - 
The product sometimes referred to as synthetic wool is made from filaments of rayon cut into short lengths and known as staple fibre. From the staple fibre many kinds of yarn are spun  which  in turn are woven, often in admixture  with  natural or artificial fibres, into a wide variety of clothe. In some cases the cloth  will  resemble or is indistinguishable from an artificial silk cloth. In other  cases  the cloth  will  resemble a woollen cloth. Separate statistics are not available relating to the importations of staple fibre cloths which resemble woollens. 
Although statistical data is not available it is known that thu importations of staple fibre cloth resembling woollen cloth are increasing. 
The published data covers the staple fibre industry as a whole.It is impossible to say what proportion of the total production of staple fibre is made into cloths which resemble woollen cloths. Few official statistics of staple fibre production are available and estimates compiled by various organizations differ. The following figures are indicative of the growth of the world production of staple fibre: -1934, 53,000.000 lb; 1935. 140.000,000 lb.; 1936, 299,000,000 lb. 
A summary of developments in the staple fibre industry as a whole is contained in a report on "Industrial Fibres " published in September, 1937, by the Imperial Economic Committee from which the following* quotation is taken: - "The extent to which the increased utilization of rayon and staple fibre is causing a reduction in the consumption of natural fibres is still problematical in most countries, and the absence of consumption statistics makes definite pronouncements impossible. In the United Kingdom and the United States the expansion of rayon and staple fibre output does not appear to have materially affected the consumption of other fibres. During 1936, and the first half of 1937, the wool and cotton industries in both have been well employed, and raw material stocks have been reduced. The United States, however, is reported to be utilizing much of its increasing staple fibre imports in the wool textile industry, while the domestic production is largely consumed by the cotton industry. In Germany and Italy, on the other hand, concentration on staple fibre production has been accompanied by considerably reduced imports of wool and cotton. These factors, however, have not been sufficiently long in evidence to become established tendencies. In Japan, it is reported that the use of rayon and staple fibre is increasing in the manufacture of native garments, where cotton was previously used, and that some attempt may be made to mix staple fibre with wool. Considerable publicity has been given the new Italian ' lanital ' fibre, which has casein as its basic raw material, but up to the present the volume of output has been relatively insignificant." 
Such a remark was entirely unnecessary. On such  a  vital matter as loyalty to our country and its institutions, we should rise above party political considerations. The defence of this country is a matter of concern to every man and woman living in it, and therefore, it ill becomes any honorable senator to cast doubt on the loyalty of any other member of the Senate. I may appear to be unduly sensitive in this connexion, but I cannot forget that during the recent election campaign it was frequently suggested that the Labour party could not be trusted with the defence of Australia, because, it was alleged, an element of disloyalty existed in the party. In all sincerity I say that that is a libel on the great Labour movement. I resent it. Particularly in view of the difficult times in which we live, I hope that we shall hear no more of such allegations. Apart from that reference,  Senator McBride's  first speech in this chamber was excellent and I compliment him on it. 
The trade agreements which the Government hopes to make with other countries are of such importance to Australia that they should be discussed by the Parliament before the negotiations are too far advanced. The secondary industries of Australia have not received the consideration to which their influence on the development and populating of this country entitle them. Our primary industries  also are carrying too great a load. The proportion of our production which must be exported at prices which will enable them to compete with the products of other countries in the world's markets is too great. The only solution of the problem appears to be an increase of population by the development of our secondary industries, thereby providing a better home market for our primary products. Other countries with lower standards are able to dump their surplus production in the markets of the world at prices which make it difficult for Australian producers to compete with them. I repeat, therefore, that the Government should exercise great care before taking any action which may hamper the development of our secondary industries. I believe that in the development of our secondary industries lies the future success of Australia. Primary production can maintain only a certain limited population; if we are to improve conditions for our primary industries a more balanced economy must be instituted. In any negotiations for trade agreements with other countries I hope that the Government will seriously aim to make Australia as self-supporting as possible by safeguarding its industries. There are many ways in which this country may be developed, but I do not know that, it is the duty of a member of the Opposition to tell the Government how it should do its job. In any case, I firmly believe that the present Government will not be in office for long. The result of the recent election is a clear indication that the people of Australia will not much longer be content with a policy of  laissez faire.  What progress has been made in the past has 'been the result of the action of governments with an outlook different from that of the present Government. There have been complaints about the voting for the Senate, but at least so far as Queensland is concerned, the result is a clear indication of the intelligence of the electors. 
A greater population is essential in the best interests of Australia; hut the Labour party will not associate itself with any policy which will bring to this country people who, before long, will swell the ranks of the unemployed. Work must be provided for our own people before others are brought here. There must be development along line3 which will make it possible for those willing and able to work to he absorbed in industry. We hear much talk of the decline of the birth rate, but that also is an economic problem. I associate with the people of the country and I know the outlook of the workers as well as of the younger members of the community. If we create conditions which will give to them security of employment and a reasonable standard of living, the other problems which confront us to-day will be found less difficult to solve. I believe that it is possible to deal effectively with many of those problems, but, unfortunately, the Government seems to have no definite plan for their solution. I am disappointed at its attitude towards the manufacture of power alcohol in Australia. During the election campaign, a good deal was said regarding the defence of Australia; but, if the position is so serious as was then indicated, the Government which has been in office for six years must be held responsible to a great extent. There are some who claim that the production of power alcohol would be uneconomic; but, if a state of emergency arose, Australia would find it necessary to be much more self-contained in respect of oil fuel than it is now. There is a practical side to this problem. I believe that it is possible to establish the power alcohol industry in Queensland, thereby benefiting that State and, indeed, the whole of the Commonwealth. In view of the fact that other agricultural industries are in difficulties, because of poor prices and lark of markets, the development of the power alcohol industry should be given earnest consideration. 
I do not know whether or not I am expected to deal with the various item3 referred to in the Governor-General's Speech, but, were I to do so, I fear that some honorable senators would not be pleased. The Speech contains references to a number of matters of great importance to Australia, such as health and insurance, and I look forward with interest to pronouncements of the intentions of the Government in relation to them. Should the Government introduce legislation to improve the health  of the people, and provide them with greater security, I shall support it, and I believe that every other member of the Opposition will do the same. As a member of the Labour party, I view the future with confidence, and I sincerely trust that my association with this Parliament will be of benefit to the people of Australia. 
I congratulate  Senator Courtice  on his speech, particularly that portion in which he expressed his belief that the defence of Australia should be above party. I am glad to have him here as an ally, because for many years, and long before  I  came into the Senate, I have been saying that the defence of Australia should be above party. It is too vital, too big and too grave a matter to the nation to be made a party football, or to be used as a subject for appealing to the passions, prejudices, and ignorance of the populace at election times. The honorable senator expressed disappointment with the speech delivered by  His Excellency  the Governor-General. When he has been in the Senate longer - and I trust he will have a happy, pleasant and successful time here - he will find that such disappointment is not new. I remember the first Governor-General's speech to which I listened in this chamber, because to me fell the task, in January,  1926,  of moving the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. The speech on that occasion was rather a colourless document.  I  also remember the speech delivered in this chamber on November  20, 1929,  by Lord Stonehaven, the then Governor-General; the Scullin-Theodore Government had just come into power. If honorable senators are sufficiently interested to turn up the speech in the parliamentary proceedings, they will find that it consisted mostly of pious hopes and wishes, together with some little fears for the future, and misgivings as to the economic position of the country. There was. however, in that speech one dark blot. It was only a very short paragraph, but it was full of meaning, and I honestly and sincerely believe that the people of this country will some day realize what a wicked and dangerous thing it was. It was, briefly. " My advisers have decided to suspend compulsory military training ". That was in  1929,  and compulsory military training is still suspended. 
The honorable senator will admit, I think, that I have been all the time advocating its reintroduction. I speak 'about something  of  which I have some knowledge. I do  not  want to boast of it, but I know a great deal about war. I have seen its horrors  at  first hand. I have been in it, smelt  it,  and felt it. I think I can visualize what would happen in this country if war were brought to our shores. It does  not  bear thinking about; we are absolutely unprepared to-day. 
I do not want to traverse all the ground covered yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition, but I should like  to  touch upon one point. That is his inference that it would be possible for Australia to be neutral if Britain were  at  war. That is the most utterly mischievous nonsense imaginable. The imagined neutrality about which this- false political prophet, speaks could not be Australia's to choose, even if it would. It is possible that neutrality might be offered to us by the enemy, but only upon such disgraceful terms that no Australian, whatever his political views, would dream  of  accepting it. The neutrality  of  Australia in such a conflict is not possible. The intelligence of our people rejects such a crazy notion. We must remind ourselves that only the strongest arms and a trained manhood can ensure respect for any wishes of our own in that matter. So we come down to the fact that adequate pre,paration for the defence of Australia  is  an imperative and essential national task. The recent elections were, I believe, fought on the main issue of adequate defence in co-operation with Great Britain and .the remainder  of  the Empire, as contrasted with a purely local defence allied with the policy of keeping out and staying out, of any war in which the Motherland might become involved. The latter policy, if it could be implemented, would plainly spell national suicide on the part of Australia. There can be no war in which Great Britain  is a participant that will not involve Australia. Great Britain's enemy will see to that. In this regard, I should like to read a short extract from a speech made by Councillor Motta, ex-President of the Republic of Switzerland, at the anniversary of the Battle ofSempach, which was fought on the 9th July, 1386. That date is a memorable one in the annals of the Swiss republic, because it was in that battle that the Swiss threw off the Austrian yoke and became, with their republic, the leaders of the world in democracy. Councillor Motta's speech was most eloquent, and particularly from his concluding words a great lesson is to be learned. He is reported thus :  -  " The acute international situation fills us with poignant anxiety. There is not a glim- merof peace in the sky - everywhere on earth nothing else but menacing shadows. War is a plague. It has shaken all conception of right. Treaties, even those freely entered into, are not observed nor respected. In many countries a new paganism is waging furious war on Christianity. Mind and religion have often to make room for pure materialism, and irreligion in its folly seeks to extinguish the eternal lights. Liberty, this precious attribute of the immortal being, is crushed under foot, and democracy, truly the most noble form of political organization of a people, is treated contemptuously. Where is. the world going to? Into what abyss is humanity drawn? We ignore it. Possibly we suspect it. Set there is one thing that we know and that we want. Contempt for liberty and for democracy will never find an echo or assent in our midst, for liberty and democracy form the vital centre of our political sentiment and convictions." 
He added that he did not esteem the civic value of a citizen according to his attributes. All it required and demanded was that there should be complete unity on the essential question of national defence. In the army lay their security and pride; in it was expressed the unshaken will of the people to remain independent. It was true the army was costly and never beforehad their federal authorities approved of such large military credits as quite recently. All the same, these credits were indispensable. Foreign governments and their general military staffs had to be convinced that any attempt to violate Swiss territory and to utilise Swiss soil for a strategical march against an enemy would be met by the most obstinate and deliberate resistance of the Swiss army. No disagreement existed on that vital point. German Swiss, French Swiss, Italian Swiss, they would all sooner die  a  glorious death than live under any form of servitude. In this respect they were one solid, infrangible block - peasants, artisans, merchants, technicians, or members of the liberal professions. Switzerland would never succumb on account of internal discord amongst its children. " We also wish to contribute to the efforts made to organize world peace," he said. " Notwithstanding all that may have happened, we have not lost faith. We will not turn our backs on the League of Nations. But foremost of all - it is on ourselves that' we wish to count." 
That also is true of Australia. We must count upon ourselves. But what are we going to do about it? The Lyons Government has just been returned to office on its defence policy of full co-operation with the forces of the Empire. If Australia's share in that co-operation is to be a reality, and not a make-believe, there will have to be a speeding up of the strength of all three arms of the defenceservices, far beyond anything yet attempted. The. first essential, without which the acquisition of guns, ships, aircraft, tanks, munitions, and equipment will be of no avail, is that the men of military age in the Commonwealth shall receive the necessary skilled training and discipline. Unless they receive this training it will be impossible for them to make adequate use of the complicated mechanized weapons with which modern war is waged. 
Before I resume my seat, I wish to refer to an exceedingly stupid statement contained in a. leading article in the  Canberra Times,  of to-day. The writer of this priceless effort displays abysmal ignorance of his subject. This is whathe says :  - 
Modern war has driven home some stern lessons. One of the most impressive is the super importance of adequate equipment. A rabble could hold off a trained invader if it were adequately equipped. 
If ever there was colossal nonsense displayed in connexion with defensive measures, it is to be found in the statement which I have just read. Whatever defence equipment were given to a rabble, it would be no use whatever. The stupidity of the newspaper statement will be realized when I tell the Senate that the lock of a Vickers machine gun consists of 26 parts, all of which are necessary, and some most intricate in construction, yet a good gunner, wearing a gas mask, is expected to be able to take it to pieces in the dark and reassemble it. He can do this simply because hehas been  instructed in the use of this class of weapon and has had experience with it. lt is ridiculous to suggest that' any individual in a rabble, even if it were adequately equipped with modern weapons, could hold off a trained invader. 
 The  Canberra Times  is not a Labour newspaper, remember. 
.- I support the motion. It is fitting that we should have an opportunity such  a3  is now presented, to pay homage to the representative in Australia of  His  Majesty the King.  Senator Courtice,  who delivered his maiden speech in the Senate this afternoon, expressed some disappointment with the speech of the Gover nor-General, suggesting that it consisted of so much dry-bones. I can, however, assure the honorable gentleman that by the time the Government has given effect to the legislative programme outlined in the two-page pamphlet presented to honorable senators on Tuesday, the  Hansard  record of the debates will be a bulky volume, and I have no doubt that  Senator Courtice  will have made his contribution to its dimensions. I should not have spoken at this juncture but for the fact that I consider it desirable, in view of certain remarks made yesterday, that both sides of the economic problems affecting Australia should be presented. E should not dream of criticising the maiden speech of a new senator, if he were actually new to politics; but  Senator McBride,  who spoke yesterday, and to whom I now particularly address myself, has had long experience in the House of Representatives and is, or should be, cognisant of what has happened in the political arena during the last few years. But my attention is not so much to criticize as to inform the honorable gentleman in respect of one or two matters touched upon by him yesterday, and to suggest to him that, in this chamber, it is considered desirable that arguments should be supported by facts which approximate the position as disclosed by public documents. The statement to which I take most exception covered the period of the earlier years of the- depression. The honorable gentleman conveyed the impression that in those clark years primary production saved Australia, whereas, as everybody should know, the' wool cheque during the first three years of the depression dropped from £62,000,000 to approximately half that sum, and the world's market collapsed for other forms' of primary production, with the result that it became necessary to raise about £20,000,000 to keep our primary producers on the land. 
The facts are as I have stated them. The Government had to find about £20,000,000 to save our primary producers. During those years, our secondary industries were also in difficulties and suffered heavy losses; but, fortunately, their capital equipment  being more liquid, they were able to readjust themselves to meet the changed economic conditions without calling upon the Commonwealth Government for financial aid. During the four years of the depression, our primary producers had practically no income at all, so we may assume that? the £20,000,000 or thereabouts that was required for their assistance was found by the rest of the taxpayers. 
M.y so:e intention in referring to this matter is to put in proper perspective the Australian economy. I have no desire whatever to raise any controversial matter, because, as every one who has the interests of Australia at heart should realize, these two great sections of the community - our secondary and primary industries - must work hand in hand. They must also work hand in hand with the workers, who make their contribution to a balanced economy. As regards the production of wealth in Australia, our primary and secondary industries are on equal footing; but as regards employment capacity, our secondary industries are in the leading position. 
That is true, and we should also remember that, although the taxation burden fell mainly on our secondary industries during those years and was also high on the general community, the prices for all secondary commodities, in spite of the protection which some industries enjoyed at that rime, dropped considerably. As bearing on this point, I direct the attention of honorable senators to some significant figures contained in the  report  of the Tariff Board for the year ended the 30th June, 1937. This document states that the present price, expressed in sterling, of pig iron in Australia, is £3 8s. a ton as compared with £6 ls. to £6 lis. a ton in the United Kingdom. The price of the Australian  commodity  is at least 40 per cent, below the British rate. The Australian price for steel joists is £7 14s. 5d. a ton aa compared with £10 12s. 6d. to £11 2s. 6d. a ton in Great Britain. 
I am aware of that, but it does not  affect  my argument. The price of bar steel in Australia is  £7 14s.  f&gt;d.  a  ton  as  compared with  £11  to  £11 10s. a  ton in Great Britain, and the price of spring steel in Australia is  £14 3s.  8d. a ton against £15 10s. a ton in Great Britain. J. could give similar information with respect to barbed wire and galvanized iron, but I do not think it, is necessary. The improved position in Australia is due to the increased efficiency of our secondary industries, as well as other factors, which enable our factories to reduce their prices below those obtaining in Great Britain. 
Would the honorable senator say that that remark applies generally to Australian secondary industries? 
Some little feeling has been shown by honorable senators opposite in consequence of a remark by  Senator McBride  concerning loyalty. I believe that if Australia were in danger honorable senators opposite and those whom they represent would prove to be just as loyal as honorable senators on this side of the chamber, and that every man in Australia who was able would offer his services in the defence of this country. At the same time they should answer this question frankly. "We recall the canard they employed during the recent election campaign. They knew that there was no truth in the statement they made that if an anti-Labour Government were returned to power conscription would be introduced. They knew that no government, whatever political party it represented, would introduce conscription. Such a proposal would be rejected by Parliament in one hour. Notwithstanding this fact they persisted in making such utterances with the sole object of winning the election. 
I ask the honorable senator to withdraw the remark to which exception has been taken. 
I congratulate the mover and the seconder of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply on the speeches they have delivered. I should also like to congratulate  Senator Courtice  on the speech which he made this afternoon.  Senator McBride  delivered an excellent speech. It is not easy to speak for the first time in this chamber, even if one has had lengthy experience in the House of Representatives. I recall that when I was first elected to the Senate I did not feel very happy when I was performing the duty allotted to  Senator McBride  yesterday.  The honorable senator acquitted himself admirably, and his remarks were most interesting. The same may be said concerning the speech that we have heard from the Labour benches ; I listened . to them with much interest and appreciation. It would be a bad thing if party antagonism reached a stage at which an honorable senator on this side of the chamber would not admit that an honorable senator in opposition had made a good speech. In this respect I regret that the Leader of the Opposition did not show a little more generosity, particularly as he is the leader of an important party in this. chamber. The mover and seconder of the motion, quite properly, referred to the great service which  Sir George  Pearce has rendered to his country. In fact, every one in this chamber should associate himself with the remarks of  Senator McBride  in that respect.  Senator Pearce  is the only senator who has been a member of this chamber for 36 years, and because a reference was made to that fact by  Senator McBride,  the Leader of the Opposition said that his remarks were in bad taste. How can that be so ? Is it not right for us to say that the defeat of  Senator Pearce  is a great loss to this country? 
The honorable senator said that it was in bad taste. 
Nor would I claim to be infallible. In the opinion of the general public it would not be bad taste to pay_ a well-deserved compliment to a man on the other side of the chamber. We recall what was said by  Mr. Gladstone  - whom the Leader of the Opposition mentioned yesterday, with appreciation - after listening to the speech of  Mr. Austen  Chamberlain, whose father had smashed up  Mr. Gladstone's  government years before by fighting him on the home rule question.  Mr. Gladstone  might have been expected to have shown some bitterness; but he said that the speech- was one that ought to gladden the father's heart. That is the way in which political opponents should treat one another; it is a small thing to admit that a man made a good speech, especially as at other times there may be good reason for saying that a speech was a bad one. The Leader of the Opposition suggested that a party with views similar to those held by the Labour party was responsible for the repeal of the corn laws. 
That was the suggestion of the honorable senator. He referred to Bright, Cobden, Gladstone and others, but as a matter of fact  Sir Robert  Peel was responsible for the repeal of the corn laws. 
Who was responsible" for the repeal of the corn laws? It is not a matter of pressure. There was no Labour party at that time. The corn laws were repealed by  Sir Robert  Peel, who had been a tory and was leader of the Conservative party, and severed his connexion with many of his political friends in order to do what he thought was right. In so doing he practically smashed his own reputation. History records what actually happened. 
There was no Labour party in existence then. Always there are two groups in politics - the radicals and the more conservative. Usually, the radicals call themselves progressive ; there is nothing to show whether they progress in the right direction. I wish to add my small testimony to the services rendered by retiring Ministers in this chamber. I deeply deplore the retirement of  Senator Pearce  and yourself,  Mr. President.  I regret that after having given 30 years' service in this chamber you have fallen by the way. In these remarks I also include the former Assistant Minister,  Senator Brennan,  and several members who have been many years in this chamber. At the same time I extend my congratulations to the new Ministers, and wish them good luck ; they will probably need it before they finish their new jobs. I congratulate both of them, particularly on the fact that to-day they have been speaking out in this chamber in a way which has enabled honorable senators, who, like myself, are getting old and a little hard of hearing, to hear what they say. Honorable senators do not relish having to call out to Ministers that ' they cannot hear them. I hope that" the new Ministers will increase their volume of voice, information, knowledge, and debating power. It is a pleasure to me that half of the members of the new Ministry - and this may not have happened by chance - are men who gave service in the Great War. I have been surprised that for some years past, when so large a number of parliamenttarians who gave or volunteered for service in the last war have been available, so few of them have -held ministerial office. Half of the members of the new Ministry either fought for their country in the Great War or volunteered to do so. If to these we add the name of  Mr. Hughes,  who perhaps rendered more service during the war to his country than did any soldier, the number of these men in the Ministry comes to eight out of fourteen ; I believe that that is a move in the right direction. 
I do not propose to deal with the Governor-General's Speech in .detail. It has been announced that the GovernorGeneral has been given leave of absence for six months, and that he intends to proceed to England for a holiday. I take this opportunity to express the view that all of us hope that  His Excellency  will have a pleasant and interesting time while he is overseas, and that he will return stronger in health. Perhaps it is not generally recognized that  His  Excellency's service in this country as a representative of  His  Majesty, now extends over something like ten years, first as Governor of South Australia, then as Governor in New South Wales, and, more recently, as Governor-General of the Commonwealth. The duties of a governor-general are exhausting, particularly if he should travel, as the present occupant of the office has done, over the whole of Australia. We have been very fortunate in the selection of our present Governor-General, and I feel sure that honorable senators generally hope that he will come back from his visit overseas re-invigorated. 
Many items mentioned in the GovernorGeneral's Speech might be regarded as old friends. Some of them are not dealt with in detail, whilst to others only a short reference is made. We shall have an opportunity to deal with some of them when they come before the Senate later in the form of bills. Some of us, probably, will not be members of this chamber when that time arrives. Then again, some of these matters may not come up for consideration by Parliament for many years. Brief as this document is, I do not imagine that all the proposals in it will be given legislative effect during the next three years. 
I propose to deal at this juncture with three of the matters mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech. The first concerns the negotiation of trade treaties with foreign countries. In this connexion the Governor-General stated - 
My Ministers will continue to curry out their policy nf encouraging Australian industries, and of making, wherever possible, further trade treaties with other countries. ! do not know whether that statement is merely another of those pleasant remarks which one sometimes sees in governmental announcements. I hope it means something more than that, although, in view of such an instance as the competition during recent years between ' the claims of barley-growers and glass manufacturers, it is difficult to believe that there is anything very much in it. When I was in Europe this year, and was visiting a foreign country, the name of which I do not propose to disclose at this juncture, it was brought to my no tia that that country was getting very annoyed with the Commonwealth on account of its very unsatisfactory balance of trade with us. It was taking a good deal of our primary products, principally apples, but was selling to us only a small quantity of manufactures. I was informed in reliable quarters that if such a policy continued that country would seek an opportunity to trade with any other country which would give it a better deal. Although my only official standing was as a senator I thought I should not ignore the matter, and on my return to London T brought it to the notice of the  High  Commissioner. I have no doubt that it has since been referred to the proper quarters for consideration. I propose, however, to bear it in mind during the few months for which I expect to remain a member of this chamber and, probably, I shall have something more to say about it later. I emphasize again, as I have said on many occasions, that in matters of trade  Ave  cannot have it both ways ; we cannot sell unless we are prepared to buy in exchange for what we sell. If we continue to refuse to accept the manufactures of other countries we shall, by degrees, reduce the markets for our primary products, which are the only things, except metals, which bring any new money into this country. 
The second matter with which I shall now deal concerns the care of aborigines.  Senator Macartney  Abbott said yesterday that he was glad to notice that the Government was doing something about this matter. That is an excellent, sentiment, but, surely, we have sufficient troubles of our own -without butting into other people's troubles. Under the Constitution Act the Commonwealth enjoys the privilege of exercising its power in relation to many matters, but the care of aborigines is not one of them. It is specially provided that the Commonwealth shall have nothing to do with that matter at all. Why should we go out of our way, therefore, to butt into it? Why not leave it to the States? It is their concern, not ours. A.t page 219 of its report in 1929 the Royal Commission on the Constitution stated - 
The Commonwealth Parliament has no power to make /laws with respect to the aboriginal inhabitants of Australia, ''the aboriginal race in any Sta:t(." being  specially  excluded from the words of section 51 (xxvi) by which power is conferred to make laws with respect to the people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws. 
This means that, the Commonwealth Government may make special laws with respect to other races but not with respect to aborigines. Of course, as honorable senators are aware, the aborigines have no vote. 
The Commission heard much evidence on many phases of the Constitution, and gave it the fullest consideration. I do not think, however, that its report has been so fully considered, or acted upon, as it might have been. The Commission, for instance, suggested, and much can be  said in favour  of  the suggestion, that it would he a good thing if the members of the House of Representatives were elected for a term  .of  four years, instead of three years. I do not expect members of the Labour party to agree with me on this matter, because when the term of State members of Parliament was lately increased to five years in South Australia the Labour party in that State opposed the proposal. I believe, however, that the term  of  three years for members of the House  of  Representatives is too short. 1  n  fact, three years is too short a period for the life of any parliament, either State or Commonwealth. It has been said so often that the first year is the year  of  exultation over victory, and that attitude possibly is apparent at this moment in this Parliament. 
At any rate a good deal  of  exultation is apparent  on  our side in the House  of  Representatives  on  this occasion. 
That may be, but, nevertheless, it has been the custom in England for hundreds  of  years. The point to be considered in this matter is what is a sensible term. T have mentioned this matter in passing, but I seriously urge honorable senators  to  consider whether it would not be better if members  of  the House  of  Representatives were elected for four years instead nf three years, whether constant recurring elections are desirable, whether they d0 not give everybody a good deal  of  trouble, and whether the public would not be better served if the longer period were adopted. 
Reverting to the care  of  aborigines, the ma jority report  of  the Royal Commission  on  the Constitution stated- 
We do not  recommend  that section 51 (xxvi) he amended so as to empower the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws with respect . to aborigines. We recognize that the effect of  the  treatment of aborigines on the reputation of Australia furnishes a powerful argument for a transference of control to the Commonwealth. But we think that on the whole the States ure better equipped to control aborigines than the Commonwealth. The States control the police and the lands, and they, to a large extent, control the conditions of industry. We think that a Commonwealth authority would bc at a disadvantage in dialling with the aborigines, und that the States are better qualified* to do so. At the Karno time we think every endeavour should h  made to ensure the adoption of thu bes methods of administration by periodical conferences, and that every encouragement should be given to those voluntary bodies which in many of the States have worked for the improvement of the conditions of aborigines. 
It may he claimed, of course, that the latter portion of this extract offers sufficient justification for the Commonwealth to give consideration to the care of aborigines. That matter, however, definitely does not come within the province of the Commonwealth Government. The federal authority is subjected to sufficient criticism for its handling of matters with which it is bound to deal, without drawing on itself the criticism which would almost inevitably arise in respect of the treatment of aborigines. We should be well advised to leave this matter to the States. 
The last thing about which I wish t.) speak to-day is the interesting subject oi the appointment of a parliamentary committee to consider the electoral reform in connexion with the Senate. This is an important matter. A motion in relation to it will come up for discussion in the House - of Representatives shortly, and I imagine that a similar motion will be moved in this chamber, because it is stated that some honorable senators are to be appointed io the committee. The Senate is in no respect less a. part of the Parliament of the Commonwealth than is the Hons* of Representatives. The Constitution certainly places some restriction upon the Senate in the. matter of money bills, for a measure dealing with taxation may not originate in this chamber; but otherwise the Senate is just as much a part of the Parliament as is the House of Representatives. I submit that it is the duty of any executive to see that an equal deal is given as between the two Houses. Judged by the number of its members the Senate is the smaller chamber, but normally its members are older in years  than arc those in the other House. There  are  also nearly always several members sitting here who have had a good deal of experience elsewhere. Section 1 of the Constitution lays it down that - 
The legislative power of the Commonwealth  shall  ho invested in a Federal Parliament, which shall consist of the  Queen,  a Senate,, (i lui a. House of Representatives, and which is hereinafter called "the Parliament" or "the Parliament of the Commonwealth". 
The report of the Royal Commission on the Constitution contains' the following paragraph: - 
The relations of the two Houses in regard to legislation arc defined hy the provisions of the Constitution with respect to money hills and double dissolution. Except as to money bills, the Senate has equal power with the House of Representatives; but if there is a deadlock, the House of Representatives may bring about a double dissolution. 
It is perfectly clear that, except for the restriction on the money power of this chamber, it has precisely the same weight in legislative matters ns has the other chamber, a fact which seems to have been somewhat overlooked luring recent years. 
That is much to be desired, but the restoration has been left rather late. Personally, I deplore that there should be any suggestion to alter the method of election of members of the Senate. I recognize that in electoral matters there is an ebb and flow. We, on this side cannot expect to have an immense majority all the time; probably it would not be in the interests of the country that that should be so. 
I have no objection to the existing system being continued, even if it means that the flow comes in from the other side. Its continuance would also obviate the suggestion, which I hear already, that any such alteration as has been suggested is something in the nature of a jerrymander. 1 do not attach too much importance to i lie word "jerrymander" for it is usually used by some one who wants to make an unpleasant suggestion; but as we on this side have had the benefit of the existing system for some years, we ought to adhere to it and accept whatever disadvantage it brings to- us in the years to come. It is possible that, in some minor points, alterations are desirable. I hope that I shall not offend one honorable senator sitting opposite when I say that I believe the letter " A " played some part in the Senate election in New South Wales recently. It seems to me to be rather ridiculous that candidates should be chosen partly because their names commence with " A ". Possibly, it would be better if lots were cast to determine which group shall appear first on the ballot-paper, rather than that, as a matter of course, the group with names commencing with " A " should appear at the head of the list. But that alteration doe.s not require the setting up of a special committee. It is a matter of such relatively minor importance that I should have expected the Government itself to deal with it without constituting a committee for the purpose. 
The Constitution provides that Parliament may alter the method of voting as it chooses. This is certainly not a subject for a referendum of the people. I say these things now, because if 'a motion on this subject is to be placed before the Senate - and I cannot believe that such a motion would be moved in only one House of the Parliament - the time allowed under the Standing Orders for consideration of it would be short. I also speak now in the hope - perhaps it is too ambitious a hope - that my remarks may be of  interest  to the committee, when appointed. The substitutes which have been suggested for the existing system are, first, proportional representation, and secondly, the division of each State into group districts by amalgamating two or more divisions of the. 
Mouse of Representatives to form one group. In South Australia that could easily be done. The division there is obvious ; one group would contain the electorates of Grey and Wakefield; another, Barker and Boothby; and the third, Adelaide and Hindmarsh. In my opinion, the grounds of objection to such a division are great. I shall give some of them later. When passing through Adelaide recently, the  President  of the Senate, according to the newspapers, made a vigorous pronouncement, in which he expressed his unqualified opposition to proportional representation. I entirely agree with him. One reason for my agreement is that the system was tried in New South Wales and proved a complete failure. Indeed, its failure was admitted by both sides in the State Parliament. It created a most difficult situation, as 'between members on the same side of the House. According to the record of the proceedings of the New South Wales House of Assembly for 1925-26,  Mr. Lazzarini,  a brother of the honorable member for Werriwa in the House of Representatives, in moving the second reading of the bill for the abolition of the system, said - 
We have 'hud three general elections under the system of proportional representation - in 1 920, in 1922, mid in l!&gt;2o - and honorable members and the people of the country generally have had full and ample opportunity of getting a thorough knowledge of how proportional representation is working in this community and of summing up its merits and demerits. As far as this Government is concerned, and I believe that, as far as the majority of honorable members on the opposite side of the House are concerned, it is agreed that proportional representation has shown far more demerits than merits during its operation in this State. 
The system was abolished at the instigation of the Labour party during the regime of  Mr. Lang,  and a system of preferential voting, with single electorates, substituted. The Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales chamber at that time was  Mr. Bavin,  now  Mr. Justice  Bavin. He spoke at some length on the subject. Honorable senators would do well to read his speech as recorded in New South Wales  Hansard  of the 4th November, 1925.  Mr. Bavin  then said - 
I was one of those who strongly favoured the Introduction of the system of proportional representation, because J. believed that it was the fairest and the most effective system for securing the free ami complete expression of the will of the people. 
He went on to enumerate some of the things that he had hoped proportional representation would give, and then he continued - 
Although 1 have not lost my faith entirely 

 III the system, although .1. propose to oppo.-e this bill because of what it is intended to substitute for  proportional  representation, I am now bound to say - and I may say that 1 am expressing my, own opinh.ui, and that I am not speaking now for the party which I have the honour to lead. because this is a matter in connexion with which the individual members of my party are free to exercise their own independent judgment - after the most careful and best consideration that I  could  give the question I am very greatly disappointed with the working of the system, lt has nut produced the results that 1 anticipated it would produce, ft has produced certain res ill Id which those of us who believed in it, did not anticipate. 
That record shows that one party in the New South Wales Parliament moved for the abolition of the system of proportional representation after it had been in operation for only about seven years, and had been used at three elections) and that the Leader of the opposing party expressed keen disappointment with it. 
A strong objection to the division of the States into group districts is that it would mean the end of the Senate as a States' House. The moment a State is cut up into divisions, State representation as such ceases. The underlying idea in relation to the Senate is that it shall be a States' House. I am aware that, irc theory at least, the Labour party stands for the abolition of the Senate. I presume that our leaders do not desire that, although I can quite' well believe that some of our supporters would be glad to see the States' identity of this chamber done away with. There is no question that it was laid down in the most decisive way that the Senate should be a States' House. That can be seen throughout the Constitution, and is borne out by the fact that the  President  and the  Chairman  of Committees can exercise a deliberative vote at any time, but have no casting vote. All this makes it perfectly clear that the original States were to keep their equal representation and strength intact. The moment you begin dividing a State up into portions, senators will cease to be State members, and become the representatives only of portions of their States, although of larger portions, certainly, than members of the House of Representatives. That puts quite clearly my reason for opposing that proposal, and it is a reason which the people, particularly in the smaller States, will not be slow 10 recognize. They know perfectly well that there are persons and organizations who would entirely do away with, or nullify, or whittle away, the strength of the smaller States in this chamber in the interests of the stronger States. For that attempt, I venture to say, the public will have no sympathy. 
The reason given for an alteration, among other things, is that too many informal votes were cast at the last election. The number of informal votes in my own State, however, was lower than nf the previous election. I need not pause at this stage to point out what an excellent State South Australia is, because the performance which it put up must commend itself even to the Opposition, as an instance of standing firm. The returning officer, at the declaration of the Senate poll in South Australia, pointed out that on this occasion a higher percentage had voted than ever -before, and that there were fewer informal votes than three years ago, though there were far more candidates. The PostmasterGeneral  ("Senator A. J. McLachlan)  and  Senator McBride  heard that speech. It surely shows, if it shows anything, that the elector is becoming slightly more educated. It must be remembered that there are in every State a great many electors who will not cast a formal vote. They resent having compulsion applied to them, and have done so from the beginning. It would be found, if an investigation could be made, that some Australians have never cast a formal vote since compulsory voting was introduced. 
Sometimes they object to the candidates themselves. I remember an occasion when I was a candidate for another place, and, as it happened, was beaten. One elector did not vote for either myself or my opponent, but just slashed a pencil down the centre of the ballot-paper, and wrote in the corner of it, " See such-and-such a passage in the Bible ". I cannot remember the exact text of the passage, but it. i an something like this : " They are all gone aside, they are all together become abominable; there is none that doeth good, no not one." That was the attitude of a person who did not like either my opponent or myself. Such people will not vote, because they do not believe in compulsion, or do not like any of the candidates. In an immense State such as New South Wales, there must for long be a large number of informal votes. The numbers who vote are increasing, and we can only hope that gradually the number of informal votes will decrease. I do not know whet/her at the recent poll there was an increase for the whole Commonwealth. Perhaps, the Minister will be able to give us the information when he speaks. 
Why was it that, in the last election, my party was successful in the House of Representatives and unsuccessful in the Senate? That is quite an unusual thing. The two Houses as a rule tend to swing together, but on this occasion practically all the seats in the House of Representatives held in the last Parliament by the United Australia party and the Country party were re-won, whereas nearly all the Senate seats held by those parties were lost. What is the explanation? I think it really comes down to a large extent to the old theory propounded by the French professor Le Bon, that members must have prestige - must have standing - must have something for which they are respected. Different things may be said about people of different types, but the one essential, to quote thatauthority only roughly, is they should have prestige, if they are to induce people to vote for them. Exactly the same thing applies to a House of Parliament. A member in the Lower House is normally the channel to the Minister for all sorts of applications, some of which are granted and some not. Senators, in the nature of things, have not that chance. They may have it occasionally, but if they do have it, it is to a much less degree. They, therefore, do not earn the personal commendation which goes to members of the House of Representatives. 
The area represented by an honorable senator is very large. It is almost impossible for him to cover the whole of it. I have made an endeavour to do' that in my own State, and no doubt  Senator Collings  has tried in his. I found it a most interesting, but still a very big task. A senator can got to know his people only to a very small extent, in comparison with the members of the House of Representatives. Personally - and I think I should say this - I consider that to n great extent the Senate has suffered in this election owing to the attitude of the Executive to it during the last few years. It is 'of course, obvious that we had a great majority on our side in this chamber. It is quite equally arguable that there should not be 33 on one side as against only three on the other side. I am not saying that that should or should not be, but I do not think that the Senate has had, from the Executive, the consideration that it should have had. I -am sure that this has re-acted on the Senate as a body, and I am not the only one of that opinion. To the best of my recollection  I  have never quoted  The Bulletin  in this chamber before. It is a paper which, I think, is sometimes exceedingly right and sometimes exceedingly wrong. On the 17th October, it said - 
In the last Parliament there were 33 ministerialists and three Labour  senators,  and, after the fashion of governments with commanding majorities, the Administration treated the Senate with contempt. 
That may be putting it emphatically, hut T think there is a real basis for such an assertion. Whilst the ministerialists in the House of Representatives have not been treated so roughly, the effect of the rough treatment extended to the Senate has recoiled on our own party in it. If I am asked for instances of that treatment, I point in the first place to the tariff schedules that we have had before us. We have fought here twice during the last six years in great detail on the tariff schedule, and have been much divided. Tho Government constantly won its case by the support of the Labour senators, that is to say, against its own supporters. Senators will remember that there was one day when vote after vote was taken in which the numbers were equal. It was only our failure to get one more vote that prevented us from winning our point. I do not say that it was a point of the greatest importance, but the Government ought to have realized from those figures that a majority of its supporters were not of its way of thinking on tariff matters, and should have taken some notice of the fact. Instead of this, when requests were made to the House of Representatives some were rejected, a few minor concessions were given in some cases, and after the most prodigious struggles the net result was, I think, that in the end we - managed to obtain, for instance, a reduction of 7-i per cent, on rabbit traps made in Great Britain. Was that- a concession? 'I am speaking on these matters without animus, but I think they should be clearly pointed out. Then there was  Senator Abbott's  motion for the encouragement of peace by the adoption of an international language. Some condemned, it as "hot air" and "idealistic stuff," but I supported it from the beginning, and the Senate was quite entitled to put forward its view on it. It might have done good, and can one say more than that of thu League of Nations? Then there was a long dispute which, commencing in regard to regulations and ordinances, eventually came down to the new Acts Interpretation Act. The Government actually brought in a bill to overfid*1 the expressed opinion of the majority of its supporters in this House, by altering a law which had been in operation for 30 years. Of course, it had the numbers to do it in another place, and was able to induce sufficient senators to change their views in this chamber - men who were, as they say, tova 1 to their party, and who voted for  the party. I, however, do not regard the Senate as at all a party House, as the other House is. I do not think it was ever intended to be such, and, so far as I am concerned, my loyalty is to Australia rather than to party. 
Lastly, there has been the shovelling through of masses of legislation year after year without senators being given a decent' chance to consider what it contains. The Leader of the Opposition has certainly protested against this. 
-HUGHES.- Having been trained " in the law 1" can read, these tilings and understand them more quickly than can the majority of honorable senators, not because of quickness of mind, but simply through practice. The only way that 1 was able to keep pace with the legislation corning before us was to read the hills as introduced into the House of Representatives. If I had waited until they came here, it would have been impossible for me to road them all- The occurrences that .1 have mentioned could be seen by everybody outside, and they all tend to lower the standing of the Senate. 
From some points of view it would have been better if it had  been  altered a little earlier. I imagine that the Labour party will support the proposed change in the method of Senate elections, because it stands to benefit by it. It is being pointed out that, if proportional representation comes into force, with the last election bringing in fifteen Labour senators and only three on our side, the Labour party will inevitably get one member in each State, and therefore will, as a matter of course, have a majority of the, whole Senate. If by any chance proportional representation were adopted as the voting system for the election of the Senate, there would be only one way in which it could he fairly applied, and that would be for all sitting senators to retire when the new system was adopted. Otherwise one side or the other would certainly start off with a majority: the dice will be loaded against one side or the other, unless the numbers of those who remain on each side are equal. Therefore, the only fair way would be to let everybody go out, and elect the whole Senate on a proportional basis, if it wore thought fit to do so. This, I may say, is not my own idea, but it is a sound one. The Country party, I presume would support it becauseproportional representation is a part of its policy, although I do not think that the system would work in its favour. 
I donot see the force of the honorable senator's argument. Surely there would be, in the nature of things, at least one or two Labour candidates elected, one possibly from the United Australia party, and one representing the Country party.. I am afraid that the party which I represent would be the hardest hit and for that reason I am not particularly anxious' to see the system adopted. I prefer to-  . . . hear the ills we have than fly toothers that we know not of. 
Having .expressed my view3 on this subject and raising, I hope, some points for consideration by the Select Committee when it is appointed, I again express regret that the Government intends to propose such an inquiry., In my view, that would be an implied admission that the present systemrequires alteration. I do not think it floes. However, I do not think that, in the end, very much will be done: at all events I hope that nothing will be done. I trust, that all the Senators will consider carefully the whole problem and the probable effect of any innovation, and I am not without hope that although their views may not be in agreement with mine, they will acknowledge that the system which has been in operation for so long and has at times given both sides a temporary benefit - that is one of the laws of the game - should be retained. 
I congratulate  Senator DuncanHughes  upon the splendid surgical operation which he has performed on the electoral corpse. I believe that his remarks will provide food for thought to those honorable senators who will take their leave of this chamber at the end of next June. But, whilst I express my personal regret at the severance of our relations with outgoing senators, politically we on this side are delighted that Labour's ranks are soon to be so substantially augmented. Our friends opposite, I have no doubt, now realize the futility of locking the stable door after the horse has escaped; I daresay that, in their moments of leisure, they will recall what  Senator Duncan-Hughes  said this afternoon and in future, if they have the sense, will mend their ways. I do not entirely agree with the honorable gentleman as to the reasons for the overwhelming victory of Labour candidates for the Senate in the recent elections. I am disposed to believe that the people of Australia, being good sports, recognized that as three Labour senators had held the fort in this chamber for three years it was only fair that they should have someassistance. As a result the voters increased our numbers and the reinforcements will be here in July next. 
Yes, I expect they had some sympathy for the under dog. That feeling is part of the Australian make-up. I regret that some honorable senators will be leaving us in July, but politically I was delighted with the election results, and I know that there was a loud cheer from Labour's ranks all over Australia when it was announced that the mighty had fallen, including  Senator Pearce,  for so long the leader of the Senate, and his colleague, the  President  of this chamber. Being a good Scot, I feel entitled to congratulate myself. I derive some pleasure from the knowledge that the people of Queensland had the good sense to send me and my leader  (Senator Collings)  as well as  Senator Courtice,  back to this chamber, to carry on the good work for Queensland, Australia generally, and the great Labour movement in this country. 
If post mortems are in order I will say that the reason for our failure to secure a majority in the House of Representatives was the circulation of the lie about Labour's alleged isolation policy, as applied to defence. All students of politics realize the value of propaganda. We know that the fear of isolation, engendered in the minds of people during the election campaign, was an important factor in the return of Government candidates for the House of Representatives. 
The propaganda with reference to the Government's attitude to conscription was not nearly so damaging to ministerial candidates as was the lie of isolation to Labour's forces. The Labour party does not believe in isolation in defence. It does not believe in cutting the painter, as has been so often suggested. We declare most definitely that, under the Statute of Westminster, Australia has attained to nationhood and, as a nation, we should be proud to work in close association with other components * of the British Commonwealth of nations. We take our responsibilities seriously. If Labour had been returned to power in the House of Representatives, a Labour government would have fulfilled, to the letter all its obligations to the Empire. But Labour withstands every attempt at domination by a military clique. We believe that the people of this country, through their elected government, should control their own destiny. This, in essence, is Labours attitude to the most vital problem that can confront any government. Yet, because of the exigencies of the election campaign, and the urgent need for the Lyons Ministry to cover up its sins of omission and commission, this lie about Labour's isolation policy in relation to defence was spread abroad and frightened thousands of voters from Labour's standard. On its record the Government did not deserve to be returned to power, but the lie about isolation, like Lloyd George's election cry: " Hang the Kaiser," did the trick. 
I congratulate both the mover and seconder of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply on the speeches which they delivered ; I also commend my good friend  Senator Courtice  for his maiden effort in this chamber. But I resent the implied suggestion in the remarks of  Senator Abbott  that, in returning to power a Tory government the people rang true, in the sense that they returned the only party that was loyal to the Empire. The implication that the Labour party is not so loyal is, of course, wholly unjustified. The fact that 700,000 electors in New South Wales voted for  Senator Ashley,  and 250,000 in Queensland voted for my colleagues and myself does not, surely, suggest that they are disloyal. Therefore, it is merely so much political bunkum to claim that the return of the Lyons Government is an -indication of the loyalty of the people and that the return of the Labour government would have been a manifestation of disloyalty. People who vote Labour are just as loyal to Australia and the Empire as are people who vote for antiLabour candidates, and it is in extremely bad taste for any honorable senator to even imply  otherwise. 
I agree with my Leader  (Senator Collings)  that there is nothing really substantial in the Governor-General's Speech. In view of the economic and social unrest everywhere, there is urgent need for positive government action instead of the adoption of temporary legislative expedients. The Speech contains some pious expression for world peace which we all approve, and there is mention of the possibility of the Government cooperating with the United States of America with the object of improving trade relations. With that, also, we agree. I would, however, point out that, not long ago. the Government, by its trade diversion policy, so seriously damaged American trade with Australia that a long time must elapse before its effects are forgotten. Now, because of certain probable developments in the Pacific, there is a desire for economic cooperation with the United States of America. The Government is ignoring the realities of the present world situation if it believes that, simply by making trade treaties, it will meet our threatened economic disabilities, because what is proposed to be done is merely to divert trade from one country to another. There is no suggestion that it will increase the totality of Australian trade, as I have pointed out on other occasions. The position in the Lui ted States of America is not encouraging. Already grave economic trouble is threatened in that great democratic country. Newspaper statements published in the last few days refer to another economic slump, which many people fear is imminent. Do Ministers and their supporters believe that the effect on Australia of another slump in America will be overcome merely by a trade agreement? Are they not aware that the present position, in that country is properly, attributable to antagonisms in its internal economy? Yet, the Government believes that economic difficulties can be overcome by arranging trade treaties with various countries. It is impossible during the short time at my disposal to go fully into this subject, hut it is surely apparent to every reasonable man that our economic problems cannot be solved merely by *  making treaties with the United States of America or any other country. There has been considerable discussion in this chamber and in the House of Representatives concerning the development of local industries; but to what is this policy leading us? We know that the development of our internal industries must sooner or " later have an effect upon foreign trade. Only a few weeks ago the New Zealand Government met a deputation, the members of which directed its attention to the intense competition which New Zealand had to meet from Aus tralia, and asked the Government of that dominion if something could not be done, to prevent the importation of certain Australian products into that country. It is about time the Commonwealth Government got down to bedrock and endeavoured to understand  that  at present there is dire need to approach this problem in a way different from that in which is has been approached in the past. Instead of merely entering into trade treaties,  the  Government should realize that there should be national control of the economic system, with a view to proper co-ordination, in order to place Australia, in such a position that it will be more independent than it is to-day of slumps in other parts of the world. Entering into trade treaties, stopping up one gap and opening up another, will not overcome the difficulties with which we are confronted. That policy has been tried unsuccessfully for years.  Sir Henry  Gullett, who visited Europe, was responsible for entering into a trade agreement with Czechoslovakia, under which that country takes a few cases of apples from Australia and we in. return purchase an infinitesimal quantity of glass beads. The Governor-General's speech endeavours to give the people the impression that the Government is making a determined effort to overcome Australia's economic disabilities. It is grossly misleading. I am keenly disappointed with the contents of the Speech.; [ am surprised - although, probably, I should not be - to find such trifling and petty measures forecast. 
A national insurance scheme is to be introduced. Do I understand that the Government proposes to have a contributory pension scheme instead of paying pensions from Consolidated Revenue? Does the Government propose to take money out of the pockets of the people in order that they may be entitled to a pension when they are old? Is the present system of old-age pensions to be dispensed with ? Are those now below the pensionable age to be compelled to contribute in order to qualify for a, pension later. If that is the proposal, it will mean taking from the workers, money which they 'can ill afford, in order to provide pensions. That is a most undesirable policy. After all, the majority of the men and women who now receive pensions have been workers receiving a low wage, and if those now in receipt of the basic wage have to contribute towards their pensions they will he most unjustly treated. Why should the Government interfere with the purchasing power of the workers of this country? God knows it is hard enough for workers to feed and educate their children at present. Contributions towards pensions would seriously interfere with their domestic budgets. I do not know what amount the Government expects them to contribute. If their, purchasing power be restricted, the quantity of commodities consumed will be reduced, and the prospects of our primary producers detrimentally affected. I understand that  Sir Walter  Kinnear and  Mr. Ince  are to revisit Australia. These gentlemen have already been in this country and have submitted a report to the Government. Investigations have been made by our own officers, and with the information at the disposal of the Government it should be able to submit a suitable non-contributory scheme to this Parliament. Surely there are men in this country capable of supplying all the expert knowledge that is required without incurring further unnecessary expenditure ! As other honorable senators wish to speak on this motion to-day, I shall defer any further remarks I have to make until a later date. 
I read with considerable interest the Government's policy contained in the Governor-General's Speech. I congratulate the Government on its evident desire to bring into operation the legislative proposals contained in the policy speeches of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  and the leader of the Country party  (Dr. Earle Page),  which were approved by the electors at the recent general election. The full effect of that election will be more apparent in this chamber after the 1st July next, when the new senators take their seats. The elections have necessitated an adjustment of portfolios in this chamber. I congratulate the new Ministers upon their promotion to positions in which they will have opportunities to render greater service to Australia. I welcome  Senator A.  J. McLachlan  as Leader of the Senate. He is a capable, courteous and kindly leader, and during the nine years I have been ;» ' member of this chamber, he has valiantly stood up to the principles of his party. I cannot recall that he ever applied, even to his political opponents, words which have left a sting behind them. Of course, I shall continue to give that gentleman and his new colleagues all the assistance I can, consistent with my duties as a representative of the people of Western Australia, and particularly those engaged in primary production in that State. I trust that the Government will put into operation the proposals, outlined at the elections to assist the great primary industries upon which the wealth of Australia depends. I am looking forward particularly to the. introduction, at an early date, of legislation to assist the wheat industry. In passing, I should like to associate myself with the welcome extended by  Senator Collett  to our new colleague from Western . Australia,  Senator Cunningham,  with whom I sat in the State Parliament. As Minister for 
Water Supply in that State lie was responsible for the utilization of the wonderful natural rock catchments for the provision of water supplies throughout the wheat belt in Western Australia. They are a monument to his administrative capacity aird his desire to assist in the development of that State. I was interested in the remarks by  Senator McBride  and  Senator Duncan-Hughes  regarding the status of the Senate, which lias powers equal to those of the House of Representatives, with the one reservation mentioned by  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  The Senate is a most important branch of the legislature, particularly when there is a regrettable tendency towards unification and the federal authorities are endeavouring to control the States in a way that was never anticipated by the framers of the Constitution. The Senate is a democratic chamber elected on the direct vote of the whole of the people in each State. The Senate should be not only the guardian of the people's rights and liberties, but also the bulwark of State rights, particularly those of the weaker States. This is the only chamber in which Western Australia. Tasmania and.. South Australia can be heard on an equality- with the more populous States. With other honorable senators, I have repeatedly protested against the unseemly haste with which the Senate has passed important legislation without an opportunity being afforded for a debate to be adjourned. On many occasions this has been done to suit the convenience of the House of Representatives. Why should we forego our right to give full consideration to important national questions, merely because members of another House are anxious to go to their homes? At this juncture I do not propose to discuss fully the treatment this chamber has received, particularly in connexion with the tariff and other subjects; but I must mention the unseemly haste which was displayed on the loth September, the last day on which the last Parliament sat, when no fewer than twenty bills were received in the Senate from the House of Representatives and passed through all stages without honorable senators having an opportunity to consider, let alone debate them. Imagine twenty new laws being passed by this chamber in one hurried sitting ! On that occasion the Senate resembled a parliamentary sausage machine. I look to the new Leader of the Senate to restore the prestige of this chamber, as was suggested by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  by seeing that we are given adequate time to discuss bills. 
I propose to deal with two or three legislative proposals embodied in the Governor-General's Speech. It forecast the introduction of a number of measures outlined in the Prime Minister's policy speech, and during the election campaign I had the privilege of supporting candidates of the United Australia party and Country party in Western Australia at many centres, at which that policy was explained. Without mentioning in detail the various measures promised, my advice to the Government is to get on with the business of the country and to translate its election promises into legislative action  without delay.  The sooner that policy is put into operation the better for the people of Australia. In passing, I point out that the Prime Minister's policy speech did not contain any reference to increases of parliamentary salaries or ministerial allowances, and I suggest that the Government would be wise to drop the proposal made in this connexion in the House of Representatives, at least until after the proposals outlined in the Prime Minister's policy speech, and approved by the electors, have been put into effect. "I am opposed to any increase of the present parliamentary and ministerial salaries. 
The defence policy of the Government figured very prominently throughout the election campaign. I merely state at this juncture that it meets with my approval, and I hope that it will be put into operation as soon as possible. The provision of more adequate defence in all its phases on the western coast of Australia should be urgently undertaken. The people of Western Australia desire the Commonwealth Government to establish a munitions factory in that State as quickly as possible. I also urge the completion of the Henderson Naval Base, at Cockburn Sound, in connexion wi th which project the Commonwealth has resumed a very large area fronting that magnificant waterway and has already expended £1,250,000. That is the site selected by Admiral Henderson for the establishment of a naval base on the western coast of this continent. In his report on the naval defence of Australia, Admiral Henderson recommended the establishment of two naval bases, equal in size and importance, one on the eastern coast and the other on the western coast. The eastern base has been established at Sydney at tremendous expense, and I shall not be satisfied until the Henderson Naval Base, at Cockburn Sound, has been completed, in view of the huge expenditure already incurred there. 
A very important phase of the Government's policy outlined in the Prime Minister's policy speech, and one which received the whole-hearted approval of the people of "Western Australia, is the establishment of a long-term mortgage department of the Commonwealth Bank. I urge that this department will be established in conjunction with our national banking institution as quickly as possible, as recommended by the Royal Commission on Banking and Monetary Reform, and that the Government allocate ample funds for this purpose. Through its establishment, I hope that not only will more money be made available, but also that interest rates will be reduced and stabilized to the benefit of all those people who have been obliged to borrow money on the security of their property; further, I trust that, as the result of the establishment of this service, our farmers and graziers, and people engaged in primary and secondary industries generally, will be given a greater measure of security over the homes and properties which they have established at the cost of so much labour and inconvenience to themselves. 
A very important recommendation made by  Mr. J.  P. Abbott, a member of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Reform, but one which has. received very little attention, and, so far as I know, has not yet been approved by the Government, is dealt with on page 270 of the commission's report.  Mr. Abbott,  who is  president  of the Graziers Association of Now SouthWales, said that he felt that the Government should appoint, as one of the directors of the Commonwealth Bank, a gentleman resident in "Western Australia. He added - 
After listening to the evidence given in Perth,. I have come to the conclusion that the problems of that State are in many respects different from those in the eastern States. 
I have often emphasized that view in respect of many matters which have comebefore the Senate - 
The distance from the eastern States is so great that unless there is direct. representation, on the Bank Board for Western Australia its problems may not have due consideration given to them. Air travel has considerably shortened the time for an individual to travel from the west to the eastern States, so that there should be little difficulty for such a director to attend meetings of the Bank Board. 
If a Western Australian were appointed as a director of the Commonwealth Bank, he could journey by air from Perth to Melbourne, where, I understand, meetings of the board are sometimes held, or to Sydney, in less time that it takes to travel from Adelaide to Sydney by the very agreeable and fast railway service now provided between those cities. At all events, I commend  Mr. Abbott  on the national outlook he has displayed in making such a recommendation, and I ask the Government to give it urgent consideration and approval. 
I wish now to deal with the proposal toestablish an Interstate Commission. The measure introduced last session for this purpose was very unsatisfactory to the people of Western Australia and also to residents of the other smaller States, because it did not provide for inquiry by the commission into disabilities imposed on the weaker States through federal policy. Clause 18 of that measure outlined the matters into which the commission should inquire, and on the 25th June last, I moved an amendment to add these words to the clause -  (ba)  The effect and operation of any Tariff Act, or other law or regulation of the Commonwealth, on primary industries, revenue, manufactures, or trade and commerce in the Commonwealth. 
My amendment was opposed by the Government in the Senate, but I was very pleased to find that, with the elections coming along, a spirit of sweet reasonableness, not evident when the bill was under consideration, became apparent. I travelled around 
Western Australia with government candidates at the last election, and I heard them assure electors that the Prime Minister had agreed to an amendment to cover disabilities imposed on Western Australia by federal legislation, and that it would subsequently be included in the measure. The honorable member for Perth  (Mr. Nairn)  was good enough to tell that to electors at a meeting which I addressed with him. Consequently, I appeal with confidence to Western Australia's new representative in the Cabinet,  Senator MacDonald,  whom I congratulate on his promotion, to see that the promise made by government candidates in this respect during the recent election campaign is carried into effect. I hope also that the Government will amend the measure in another direction much desired by the commercial and agricultural communities of Western Australia, by giving the commission equal control over both Commonwealth andState railway freight .rates. This is very important. The exceedingly low freights on the transcontinental railway, between the Eastern States and Kalgoorlie, place the primary and secondary industries of Western Australia in the position of having to face unfair and unreasonable competition. Cattle are carried from South Australia to Kalgoorlie at much lower rates than on Western Australian railways, and the competition is so' severe that it has the most adverse effect on Western Australia's cattle trade and other primary industries, which in point of distance should have first claim on the State's gold-field markets. The opinion is generally held in Western Australia, and I believe it is justified, that any freight items which compete with those produced or manufactured in Western Australia are carried at the very lowest rates over the transcontinental railway, whilst that railway charges very much higher freights on goods which have no competition from Western Australian industries. This matter deserves the attention of a commission of inquiry in order that this injustice to Western Australia may be removed. If, however, the Government in the measure which it proposes to introduce,' gives to the Interstate Commission, the same power to inquire into unfair freight rates on Commonwealth lines  as  it  already  proposes to provide in respect  of  unfair rates as between State railways, such action will not only be just and reasonable, but will also meet the wishes of the Western Australian people; it will tend to rectify a serious grievance which has been ventilated in both Houses of this Parliament by representatives from Western Australia, particularly by  Mr. Nairn,  in the House of Representatives, and  Senator MacDonald  in this chamber. 
A good deal of doubt existed in respect of that point. 
-I am  not prepared to debate legal intricacies with a lawyer of  Senator Brennan's  standing, but I repeat that, to the ordinary layman, it seems only commonsense that the special clause dealing with unfair competition as between State railways should also apply to unfair competition as between State and Commonwealth railways. Ever since I entered this chamber I have advocated the appointment of an interstate commission, and I am glad that, at the end of last year, members of the Government were converted to my view in that regard. I hope, however, that the proposed commission will be a real interstate commission, and not a resting place for aged and passed-out politicians. 

 -I ex pressed that view when the original measure was introduced in this chamber last session, and I repeat it now. The proposed commission will be a semi-judicial body, and, therefore, no political appointment should be made of it. It will be charged with most important work, and upon its operations will depend the smooth working of the federal machine, and also the allaying of that feeling  of  resentment against federation, which has appeared in varying degree in all of the  smaller States, and was most evident when the people of Western Australia voted by a majority of two to one in favour of secession. If Western Australia cannot secede I wish at least to see the antifederal feeling in that State allayed as much as possible. Consequently, I submit that in order to obtain the be3t results from the proposed commission, and in order that the important work which it has to do may be properly done, appointees should possess the highest technical, legal, and business qualifications. We should draw on our universities for the services of prominent economists and highly trained constitutional lawyers. I spoke in similar terms when the bill was before ns last June. Perhaps the Government will select a suitable appointee from our efficient Public Service. Great care should be taken in the appointments, because the welfare of the smaller States and the efficient working of the federal machine will depend on the proper functioning of this important body. It should consist of learned ami trained men. not  septugenarian  politicians or expoliticians. 
Except for one brief line referring to the Canadian trade treaty, the Speech contains no reference to the primary industries of Australia. I regret particularly the omission of any reference to the great wheat industry which provides more  employment  than does any other industry in the Commonwealth. Unfortunately, wheat-growing has been the plaything of party politics in the federal arena for the last eight years. Although wheat prices have been reasonably satisfactory during the past year, they are, at the moment, on the down grade. Proper legislative provision should be made for the stabilization of the industry, and the payment by the consumer of a fair price for that portion of the Australian wheat crop which is consumed in Australia. 
My statement is correct. I have had good reason to be careful in making statements in this chamber. I repeat that the wheat industry provides more employment than does any other industry in Australia. That statement was made in the first report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry presided over by Si Herbert Gepp. If we take into account indirect employment also, it becomes increasingly clear that no other single Australian industry can compare with it a6 regards its economic value to the Commonwealth Country members of all parties are agreed that the Australian consumer ought to pay a price which provides a reasonable profit to the wheatfarmer. 
I desire that the farmers of Australia shall be given similar protection to that given to those engaged in secondary industries. Legislative action to that end should be taken while wheat prices are reasonably high. As I have said, the market is falling, and the outlook is somewhat  ominous  Now is the time to put into operation the machinery to compensate the wheatgrowers in the event of prices falling still further. That can be done in more than one way. It can be done, for example, by means of a home-consumption price for wheat: or by the imposition of an excise duty, with a bounty on the wheat exported. There remains a further means - the imposition of a flour tax - but that, I know, is unpopular with the Labour party. It is for the Government to decide which system it will adopt to stabilize prices for the growers, and I demand that something be done promptly in fulfilment of the promises made by Country party candidates to the electors throughout Australia. The price of wheat in New South Wales to-day, as quoted in the newspapers, is 3s.  9½d.  a bushel at sidings; that is equal to 4s. 5id. ex trucks, Sydney. 
That, is so; and that is a further reason why action should be taken immediately to stabilize wheat prices. Much of the wheat grown in Australia is produced by men who also grow wool - that is particularly so in Western Australia - and therefore the fact that the price of wool is falling makes it even more necessary that assistance and protection be given to wheat-growers. Wheat and wool are the two staple commodities on which Australia depends for its prosperity, even its solvency. Action to stabilize wheat prices, if not taken before the Christmas adjournment, should be taken as soon as possible in the new year. At the annual conference of the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia, held at Perth on the 11th August last, the following resolution was carried at the instance of the wheat executive of the organization : - 
That the Federal Government be asked to introduce legislation to provide for a flour tax to be brought into operation by proclamation immediately the price of wheat falls below 4s. per bushel f.o.r. at ports, in order to ensure to the growers a minimum price of 4s. per bushel f.o.r. at ports for the whole of their production. 
Realizing that a flour tax is unpopular with a political party which represents nearly one-half of the people of Australia, the conference carried the following further resolution: - 
Failing a flour tax, other means to be adopted to bring about the same end. 
The conference was prepared to accept &amp; bounty on wheat exported, a homeconsumption price, or any other means which the Government may prefer to ensure that the price of all wheat produced in Australia is maintained at a price which is profitable to the grower and that the Australian consumer shall pay a fair price for the wheat used within the Commonwealth. I am not tied to any particular scheme. Should the Government prefer an excise duty, with a bounty on export, I shall be satisfied, so long as the wheat-growers are afforded immediate protection against a fall of prices  such  as occurred during the depression years, and the price to the grower is maintained at not less than 4s. a bushel at sidings. I am in close touch with the wheat-growers of Western Australia, having recently travelled through the wheat areas in company with Messrs. Gregory and Prowse', who are members of the House of Representatives. The people engaged in this industry are entirely dissatisfied with their treatment by the Federal Government. Those in the north- eastern wheat areas and other districts which have suffered severely from low prices, drought and grasshoppers were in no way assisted by the visit of the then Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Thorby).' 
I was not present, and I cannot say what he said. It may be that the wheat-growers were somewhat over-optimistic in interpreting his remarks. 
No ; but I blame the Commonwealth Government for not assisting the wheat-growers in their combined difficulties. 
The Commonwealth Parliament should come to the assistance of those wheat-growers who have been affected by drought, low prices and other disasters. In the national interest I demand assistance for the whole of the wheat industry of Australia. Those engaged in the industry will not be satisfied until the Federal Government translates into prompt legislative action the promises of assistance by a profitable price for the Australian consumption of wheat, made to them by politicians who, as a result of those promises, were returned to the House of Representatives.  A complete and comprehensive statement of the policy of the Government in this connexion should be made before we meet again next year. The Governor-General's Speech contains much that is good, but it gives no indication of the granting of assistance to wheat-growers or other primary producers. 
-I do not recall any recent assistance whatever to wheat-growers, but I emphasize that Country party candidates in Western Australia promised assistance to the wheat-growers, and I now urge the Government to keep faith by granting that assistance. 
I regret that the Government proposes to ratify the Statute of Westminster. Such action is unnecessary, and it will tend to weaken the crimson ties of kinship which bind Australia to the Motherland. Moreover, it will destroy certain rights now retained by the States under the Constitution. I remind the Senate that some years ago  Sir John  Latham said that the ratification of. the statute could- do no good, but might do a lot of harm. In the past its ratification was strenuously opposed by two of our greatest statesmen. I refer to  Mr. S.  M. Bruce and  Mr. W.  M. Hughes. I shall not say. more on this subject now, but I shall refer to it again when the bill for the ratification of the statute comes before the Senate. 
In conclusion, I remind the Senate that the Governor-General's Speech forecasts useful legislation along the lines promised by the Prime Minister in his policy speech. I hope to be able to support the Government in such legislation. The Government enters upon a new term of office under favorable auspices, with a majority in both chambers, and the good wishes of the majority of the electors. I wish it success in its desire to bring prosperity and improved conditions to the people of Australia. 
I desire first to congratulate the mover and seconder on their speeches on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral's Speech. I had not intended to speak in this debate, but I feel that the interpretation placed by  Senator Leckie  on an assertion by my Leader, calls for some explanation from me. I wish to dissociate myself from the assertion that I am a professional politician, and I regret that a supporter of the Government has seen fit to suggest that I as a Labour representative entered this chamber with the object of getting what I could out of it. This is the first time that I have aspired to Parliamentary honours, although I have given over 20 years of service in local government. Honorable senators know that for local government service a man receives no payment, and it is therefor not likely that one who aspired, as 1 did, to the great honour of representing Australia in this Parliament, did so merely to make what he could get out of it. 
Mention has been made of  the  prosperity that we are supposed to be enjoying. I am not personally acquainted with the conditions of the whole of Australia, but " I can speak with regard to New South Wales, and I would point out that any prosperity that is being enjoyed in that State, is not due to the virtues of any government. I agree 'with those honorable senators opposite who have stated that our present prosperity is due to the high prices we are receiving for our primary products, including metals. Moreover, in New South Wales, relief is being provided for unemployment, not by the Government, but by municipalities and shires, to the amount of about £2,500,000 a year. Surely honorable senators opposite do not claim any credit for the discharging of that responsibility by local government bodies? I predict that the result will be rather disastrous to the State government which introduced that system when it goes before the electors in a few months time, because the people feel that the responsibility, instead of being placed upon municipal and shire councils, should have been borne by the Government itself. 

 Senator E. B. Johnston advocated the construction of a munition factory in Western Australia, but I would remind him that the granting of that request might be as detrimental to the town in which he wants the factory placed as the establishment of the small arms factory has been to Lithgow, the town in which I live. During the war period up to 1,700 men were employed at that factory in Lithgow. They carried on for three or four years, and helped to build up a large business community in the town, but immediately the war was over the employment given by the factory dwindled down to a nucleus staff of 200 to 300 employees. Honorable senators can imagine the effect that the decrease of employment had on the town of Lithgow, which also suffered by the removal of the ironworks to Port Kembla. I do not see what is to be gained by establishing another munition factory in another State, when ample accommodation, with machinery that has been lying idle for many years, already exists at Lithgow. 
I propose to pass in quick review the observations that have fallen from honorable senators on the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General.First, however, let me offer my congratulations to those honorable senators who have made their first efforts in this chamber, upon what I consider the good tone that has prevailed throughout their speeches. At the risk of offending the sense of good taste of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Callings),  I. join most heartily in the favorable comments made by variour honorable senators on the distinguished services rendered to Australia, not only by yourself,  Mr. President,  but also by that right honorable gentleman whose place in this chamber I now hold.  Senator Pearce  has given services, extending from the very dawn of this federation up to the present time, the like of which I doubt have ever been rendered to any deliberative assembly in the British Empire. Gifted as he is by nature with wonderful capacity, clear vision, and a logical habit of thought, one learned political wisdown at his feet. I am sure Australia has produced no greater Parliamentarian, and I doubt if it has produced his equal, at all events in our time. Although I welcome my promotion in ministerial rank, I do deplore the fact that it arises from the loss to Australia of a man so gifted as is my late Leader. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition that wo shall have other opportunities of paying our respects to  Senator Pearce. 
At the same time J cannot regard the observations that have fallen from  Senator McBride  and  Senator Abbott  as in any way lacking in good taste, even though they might have been deferred to a future occasion. The fact remains that the sad event is uppermost in our minds at the present time, and I wish to give immediate expression to my views concerning it. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

It is appropriate that at this stage I should express regret at the loss, during the recent election  campaign,  of other esteemed Senate colleagues who have rendered long and distinguished public service to the people of Australia; some of them have, in addition, given equally distinguished service to this country in another and more dangerous field. Their defeat was the fate which at one time or another may befall all who serve their country in the political arena. In expressing the Government's appreciation of the service which these honorable gentlemen have given to Australia, I remind the Senate of the loss which will be occasioned by their departure, temporarily we hope in some instances, from our midst. 
I do not propose to emulate the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  in flights of fancy such as he indulged in yesterday. I shall, however, deal with one or two matters of importance, to which the honorable gentleman and other speakers alluded in the course of debate. 
In the first place I give my attention to the remarks of my colleague from South Australia  (Senator McBride)  who referred to the principles upon which the Commonwealth Grants Commission based its findings in respect of South Australia, one of the claimant States.I do this with some hesitancy, because the matter is, to some extent,  sub judice.  The honorable gentleman referred to the practice of the commission in reducing the amount of the grant recommended to South Australia by reason of loan losses, and extravagances in loan expenditure in the past, and expressed difficulty in understanding why the State which had shown the lowest amount of loss in respect of loan expenditure, should suffer the greatest reduction. I admit  that on the  face of it his criticism seems to be justified, but I would point out to him, as indicated by the report of the commission, that the extent of losses in connexion with' loan expenditure is not the only factor taken into consideration. The latest  report of that body states that it paid due regard to the circumstances surround.ing each particular loan expenditure, and the losses arising therefrom. I understand, however, that further representations have been made on behalf of South Australia, and I have no doubt that the commission will pay particular attention to these representations in fixing the grant to be recommended for the next financial year. 
1 understand that it did, and I am informed that the matter is again being thoroughly investigated, but, as I have explained, it is to some extent  sub judice,  and therefore I  refrain  from pursuing the argument at this stage. 

 Senator McBride also spoke of the differentiation made by the commission between the States in the matter of social services. No doubt the honorable gentleman was referring to an adjustment made by the commission in its calculations to allow for what it regards as an important factor, namely, the relative density of population in the various States. I have always regarded this phase of the commission's work as extremely difficult and complicated. and I understand it was very carefully considered by the commission in its fourth report, tabled in August last. The commission's attitude is that to maintain the same standard of social services in those States where population is more sparsely located, expenditure must necessarily be heavier. To allow for this factor the commission made provision for an addition to the Australian standard of social services roughly proportionate to the relative density of population in the three claimant States, as compared with that of the non-claimant States. 
I am glad to know that the honorable senator welcomes the proposals for the re-appointment of the Interstate Commission, and I feel sure that its deliberations will lead to more satisfactory adjustment of the financial relations of the Commonwealth and States. There should be no need for carping criticism of the findings of what will really be a constitutional umpire. 
So it did; but the scope of the old Interstate Commission did not include the subject of Commonwealth grants to the States. 
One of its functions will be to consider this important matter, but I admit that it will have other functions. 
That is because it is 'impossible, owing to constitutional limitations imposed by a High Court decision, to confer wider powers on the proposed new commission. 
Another matter referred to by  Senator McBride,  and which I consider of  more than passing importance, was the control of- air navigation in Australia. In my comments under this heading, I include also the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition. Some time ago we attempted, as honorable senators know, to secure for the Commonwealth the control of air services throughout Australia. Unfortunately, at the referendum our proposal was defeated; consequent on that vote, the various States were approached with a view to the adoption of uniform legislation for the adoption of the 'Commonwealth air navigation regular Hons. A conference was held in April of this year, and I am informed that since then South Australia has passed the necessary legislation applying. to that State the Commonwealth regulations. Similar measures have been introduced in the Parliaments of Victoria, Western Australia and Queensland, but I am not sure what action has been taken by New South Wales. 
Tasmania was one of the first in the field, and I understand that the Government of chat State will re-enact its legislation in a slightly different form to apply the Commonwealth regulations. Meanwhile, those regulations are in force and operate with respect to aircraft engaged in interstate trade and commerce and international nights. From a practical point of view, all the aviation companies are complying with the Commonwealth regulations. I am informed that if they do not do so, insurance companies refuse to accept the risk. From what I have said, it will be noted that we have made some progress, and I hope that soon we shall have one set of regulations operating from Cape York to the Leeuwin. 
The statement has been made that there is absence of control of ground organization. This matter received careful consideration from the ex-Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill),  and I know that before he retired from office he had authorized an extensive examination of all aerodromes and landing grounds throughout Australia with a view to insuring their efficiency as regards lighting, direction finding and meteorological services, which are extremely important in the conduct of this new form of transport. I have not the details by me, but I can assure honorable senators that the Government is fully sensible of the need for efficient organization of every phase of air transport, having particular regard to Australian conditions, and that no time will be lost in perfecting the organization. 
The Leader of the Opposition twitted the Government in connexion with its national insurance proposals, and the honorable gentleman's remarks were supported by one or two of his colleagues. Need I tell the Senate that the Leader of the Opposition has declared on more than one occasion that, if he had his way, he would give national insurance " a fly!". 
I assure the honorable gentleman that he did ; I took a note of the remark at the time. Yesterday, in his attack on the Government, he told the Senate that the Government had examined this subject exhaustively, had engaged experts abroad, as well as in Australia, and yet had not made any headway. I remind him that the scheme of health and pension insurance reported on by  Sir Walter  Kinnear, will, if implemented, render the Commonwealth liable for an amount of £264,000,000? Does he not think that a proposal of such magnitude requires a  little consideration, a little examination and a little care? 
ThisGovernment has had the matter in hand for two or three years only, and having regard to the operation of the scheme in Great Britain, which involves the British Government in a liability of £746,000,000, it is necessary that we carefully examine the Commonwealth proposal before adopting it. The scheme envisaged by theGovernment is the largest gesture in social legislation that has ever been considered in the history of the Commonwealth. It is, we believe, based on thesoundest principles and will be entirely in the interests of those Australian citizens whom our friends in Opposition claim to represent in this chamber. Itis a sound scheme. It is based  on  principles that have stood the test of experience in Great Britain. During the worst economic period in the history of the Mother Country, the British scheme,, with a certain amount of assistance from the" British Treasury, stood tie strain quite successfully. In view of the Government's proposals as outlined, I repudiate the suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition that it has not taken positive action to give effect to its programme of social legislation. The honorable senator said that the Labour party will demand a non-contributory scheme. Can the honorable gentleman tell the Senate whether the Queensland Labour Government has made any attempt tooperate its insurance scheme on a noncontributory basis? We know, of course,, that it has not, because to do sowould be to imperil the interests of every friendly society in Australia. It is hoped that at an early date the Government will be able to introduce a scheme which will be of great benefit to the whole community. 
If the honorable senator will refer to the report of  Sir Walter  Kinnear, of the 15th June last, he will see a broad outline of the scheme. It is not proposed to disclose details of the Government's proposals at this juncture, particularly as a great deal of work has yet to be done before a concrete scheme can be submitted to Parliament. 

 Senator Abbott referred to the proposed establishment of a mortgage branch of the Commonwealth .Bank. I can assure honorable senators that that recommendation of the Royal Commission on Banking and Monetary Reform is not the only  one to which effect will be given by the Government. It does not, of course, propose to adopt any "B plus 2C system", such as that under which the leader of the Opposition was returned to this chamber at the recent general election. I admire the corn-age of the Leader of the Opposition, who, yesterday, said that he favoured the block voting  system;  but I could not help thinking that had that system been employed in the recent Senate elections in Queensland we should be deprived of the privilege of listening to his eloquence after July next, and the honorable senator would be utilizing his intelligence and displaying his ability in some other sphere. 
On the subject of white allen migration I find that my predecessor made a statement on the 26th August, pointing out that during the last two years the net influx of white aliens had fallen to about one-third of the pre-depression numbers, aird also that no assistance of any kind is given by either Commonwealth or State Governments to such immigrants. Furthermore, every effort is made to prevent migrants from becoming a burden on the resources of any government by means of the provision whereby white aliens not guaranteed employment are required to have £200 capital, and  those  who have such a guarantee, £50 capital. The only alien migrants admitted without capital are the wife and children of the migrant or of a person already in Australia provided that their future maintenance is assured. 
In order to safeguard our natural standards of employment, the Minister for the Interior, before issuing a landing permit, must be satisfied in every case that the newcomers would engage in trades and occupations in which there is opportunity for their absorption without detriment to Australian workers. In this connexion reports are obtained from the police in the various States, and when a report is adverse a permit is refused. 
The Leader of the Opposition will see, therefore, that the Government is fully aware of the problem of alien white migration and that there is no cause for alarm that such migration constitutes a danger to Australian standard of living. The number of alien migrants may appear relatively large, but that is only because during the period under review  there  were few arrivals of British migrants. 
The leader of the Opposition suggested - almost with pleasure, it seemed to me - that Australia was on the verge of another financial and economic depression. Would he regard it as a political triumph if his prophecy came true and we were unfortunate enough to find ourselves again in the financial doldrums? 
-The Leader of the Opposition spoke as if he would welcome another depression, but I remind the honorable senator that such propaganda creates a fear psychology which results in investors declining to invest money in Australia, to the prejudice of employment and development. I yield to no one in my admiration of those who assisted this country when it was seriously threatened, and whose efforts were responsible for the  improved  economic conditions which followed. To some extent the prosperity we are now enjoying may be due, as  Senator Collings  said, to the rearmament programmes of Great Britain and other countries. The honorable senator also said that the prices of our primary commodities are high and that should a fall occur wo hall again be in trouble. Om- financial position began to improve before prices recovered. 
Such action was taken with the support of those who now sit on this side of the chamber. If there is one man in Australia who did more than any one else to bring about the adoption of the Premiers plan, which was the first step towards economic recovery, it is" the gentleman, whose recent political defeat we deplore - I refer to  Sir George  Pearce. Australia is at present prosperous, and I believe that if we can be assured of international peace and a closer cooperation between the white races, we shall have an era of prosperity such as the world has never known. The white race has to compete with coloured peoples employed at low wages, who are perfectly satisfied with their conditions. That and other pressing problems  must be tackled by this Parliament. The Government expects constructive, suggestions rather than carping  criticism.  The Leader of the Opposition also said that we should not be dragged into any trade agreement with the United States of America. 
The honorable senator referred to secret diplomacy. 
The honorable senator said, " Must Australia be involved in every struggle?" What does he mean by that? What would be our security should we decide to stand alone? How could we protect this country without the assistance of Great ' Britain. For the last 150 years we have lived and prospered under the protection of the British navy, and it is only through that agency that our safety and liberty can be assured. Our sister dominion of New Zealand also owes its security to the protection of the British Navy, which is the main factor in protecting the civilized world. If we can secure the co-operation of that great English speaking race across the Atlantic, we should do so, and by that means, take a definite step in the direction of securing international peace. 
A3  Senator Sampson  said, " the clouds are lowering and the position is dark indeed. " 
With regard to  Senator Collings'  remarks about wireless broadcasting, 1 have already supplied to the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives certain information in connexion with B class stations, and I shall see that the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber is supplied with - copy of the document. Some proposal? are to be made in connexion with the granting of licences to B class stations which some contend are competing with the national broadcasting service. 
I was pleased to hear the testimony given regarding the benefits of the fertilizer subsidy. When visiting certain districts in South Australia recently. I wa3 surprised to see the extraordinary benefit which has followed the use of fertilizers. Country which was carrying one sheep to the acre when I was a youth, is now, as a result, of the application of science to the soil, carrying three or more sheep to the acre. 
I may inform  Senator Courtice  that at an early date I hope to be able to table a report on the use of power alcohol. If the honorable senator peruses that report, he will find that the proposition is not so attractive as he has led us to believe. The Government is giving the subject its careful consideration and is handling the project in a way which lt hopes will give the best results. 
The speeches of honorable senators indicate that there is general approval of many of the proposals outlined in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, which, of course, contains, only a broad outline of the legislation which the Government is to submit to Parliament. 
That question has exercised my mind for a considerable time. I am very much obliged to  Senator Duncan-Hughes  for refreshing our memories concerning the various examinations which have taken place in respect of this matter but, perhaps, he might have elaborated more fully on the report of the Royal Commission on the Constitution, which had as its  president Sir John  Peden. A tremendous amount of evidence was submitted to that commission by proportional representationists and people holding other views. Speaking from memory, it came to the conclusion that, if the principle of proportional representation were applied in respect of the Senate - and I notice the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  is nodding his head in agreement with me at the moment - it would destroy the fundamental intention under the Constitution that the Senate should be a States House, because it was obvious that, in applying that principle in respect of Senate elections, the party political spirit of this chamber would have to be intensified. That was the reason, be it good or bad, given by that commission for its decision on this matter, and at the time it made some appeal to me. There is no escaping the fact that we have had tremendous ups and downs in party representation in this chamber. I recollect the occasion when there was only one Labour senator in this chamber and another occasion when there was only one Nationalist senator here. It is scarcely fair in these days when the clamour is for representation of minorities, that the people with whom I am associated in the political sphere and who have enjoyed considerable majorities should have the opportunity to exercise their power in such a fashion as they have done, perhaps, on occasions in the past. Although this is a States House, every angle of State thought should be reflected in it. However, this is a very difficult problem indeed, which I do not think will bo solved by the suggestion made yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition that compulsory indication of preferences should be limited to the number of candidates to be elected; had that system been in operation in the recent elections, the Labour party would have much less representation in this chamber than it will enjoy as from the 1st July next. I assure the honorable senator that every opportunity will be given for 'the hearing of the views of electoral officers by the Select Committee appointed to report on the method of voting for the Senate. Personally, I have heard many of those views at first hand and also some  at  second hand. Those officers have  a  strange story to tell, a story which makes one wonder whether many of our people take any interest at all in the national life' of this country. 
I shall not further detain honorable senators. I am grateful for the reception of the Governor-General's Speech, and also for the tone of the debate and Address-in-Reply. We all make allowances for the outlook of the Leader  of  the Opposition. As I listened to him yesterday, I could not help thinking  that  he was born 40 years before his time and that, if he were a young man to-day,  he  would take his place in the forefront  of  talkie artists. In this connexion, I inform the honorable senator that if he visits Lithgow he will find placarded on the side of a shop near the post office a sign reading : " The greatest movie talkie show on earth - the Trades and Labour Council of Lithgow." 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Presentation of Address-in-Reply. 
Motion (by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan) agreed to - 
Thatthe Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General's opening speech be presented to  His Excellency  by the  President  and such senators as may desire to accompany him. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J.  Lynch). - I. shall ascertain when  it  will be convenient for  His Excellency  the Governor-General to receive the AddressinReply, and will inform honorable senators accordingly. 
I do not propose  to  oppose the motion, but I hope that the action now being taken by the Minister will not be regarded as a precedent. Some discussion took place this afternoon about business being suddenly brought on in this chamber, and being bludgeoned through without proper opportunity being given to honorable senators to consider it. To this particular measure I have no objection; it apparently merely seeks  to ratify a promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  at the elections.  I  deprecate the practice of asking honorable senators to pass measures which they are not given sufficient time even to read. I urge Ministers in future to allow the second reading of each measure to be postponed until at least the day following its introduction. Surely that  is  little enough to ask, in order that honorable senators may be given an opportunity to study the proposed legislation. So far as this particular bill is concerned.,  I  offer no objection, but, in respect of other measures, I repeat the protest which  I  have just uttered. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate without a dissentient voice. 
I rise with some trepidation to announce that the Opposition will assist the Government to expedite the passage of this hill, because this afternoon, during a debate upon another subject, the Opposition was castigated for having, at times, supported the Government. From my place in this chamber I have frequently said that the Opposition does not believe that its duty is to oppose everything that the Government brings forward, merely for thesake of opposing it. We on this side believe in supporting those worth-while proposals which all too infrequently the Government introduces. Approving of the principle underlying this bill, we shall not delay its passage. 
.I commend the Government for bringing forward this amendment of the Repatriation Act, for in so doing it provides further evidence of its sympathetic attitude towards ex-service men of the Great War. My observation in this chamber has been that the Opposition has always supported the Government in matters of this kind. On two previous occasions, when restoration of amounts deducted under the financial emergency legislation was proposed I drew attention to the omission now about to be rectified. I pointed out that there must necessarily he a time limit to the granting of pensions under the section of the act with which this bill deals. I suggested a. period of twelve months; the bill before us proposes only six months. I hope that the Government will see its way to substitute the 1st January, 1939, for the 30th June, 1938. thereby making a completely satisfactory restoration in the interests of permanently disabled men who served this country in the Great War. 
 in reply -  Ithank the Leader of the Opposition (SenatorCollings) for his assurance that his party will support this bill.  Senator Brand  has suggested that the 1st January, 1939, be substituted for 30th June, 1938, as set out in the bill, but I remind him that, prior to the election, various soldiers' organizations were notified of the Government's intention. The date mentioned in the bill has been generally accepted as a fair compromise. Actually, nine months' notice was given. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 - 
Section thirty-nine of the principal act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: -  "39.  - (1.)The dependants of a person who has been a member of the forces and who has died or dies, after the date of his discharge, from causes other than the result of an occurrence happening during the period during which he was a member of the forces, shall, subject to this act. be entitled to receive such pension (if any) as - 
was being paid; 
was payable; 
would have been payable but for the fact that a claim although lodged had not been determined; or 
would have been payable if a claim for a pension had been lodged prior to the death of the member, to them under this division, immediately prior to the death of themember. 
Amendment (by  Senator Foll)  agreed to - 
That paragraphs (c) and (d) be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following paragraphs :  - " (c) would, but for the fact that a claim although lodged had not been determined, have been payable; or 
would if a claim for a pension had been lodged prior to the death of themember, have been payable.". 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended ; report, adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.  - I lay on the table of the Senate the following papers: - 
International labour Organization of the League of Nations - . Twenty-third Session held at Geneva, 3rd to 23rd June, 1937 - Reports of the Australian Delegates,  and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
Australia was represented at the Conference by  Mr. T.  H. Scholfield, M.C., M.M., M.P., andthe non-Government delegates, representing respectively the employers and workers, were  Mr. Norman  Temperly and  Mr. J.  E. Pullan. The attendance at the Conference was the largest in its history, 53 countries being represented by 431 persons as delegates or advisers. Among these representatives were ten ministers for social affairs. 
The agenda contained seven items for consideration in connexion with the adoption of international regulations in the form of draft conventions and recommendations, three of which aroused particular attention. These were the items dealing with theapplication of the 40-hour week, without a reduction of the standard of living of the workers, to three, great branches of industry - the textile, chemical, and printing industries and kindred trades. 
Only one of the three proposed draft conventions submitted to the Conference was adopted, namely that relating to the textile industry. The Government delegate, acting on instructions,after explaining the constitutional difficulties of the Commonwealth in relation to the ratification' of conventions dealing with hours of work, and expressing the views of the 
Commonwealth Government generally on the subject, voted for the adoption of a 40-hour week convention in each of the industries named. These instructions were communicated to Parliament by the then Minister for External Affairs  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  on the 24th June last. 
The other four items on the agenda led to positive results. The Conference revised two existing conventions relating to the minimum age for admission to industrial and non-industrial employment by raising the age from 14 to 15 years, as was done last year in connexion with the convention concerning work at sea. It is anticipated that the raising of the age for admission to employment will lead to the raising of the school leaving age, and will contribute to the reduction of unemployment among young people as well as to the extension of their educat ion. 
The Conference also adopted a draft recommendation for protection against accidents in the building industry. This convention is completed by four recommendations, one of which includes a model code for the avoidance of accidents. 
The final item on the agenda dealt with the planning of public works in relation to employment, and in this connexion two recommendations were adopted. The Conference considered it desirable that public works should be planned methodically and in advance, so that they might bo reserved as far as possible for periods of depression and unemployment. The object is to obtain international cooperation in this sphere. 
Another important subject dealt with by the conference was the triennial election of members of the International Labour Office. This consists of 32 members of whom sixteen represent governments, eight represent employers, and eight workers. Of the government mem- bers, eight are by right the representatives of the States of chief industrial importance - the United States of America, Canada, France, Great Britain, India, Italy, Japan and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. The remaining eight are elected by the government delegates at the conference with the exception of the delegates from the eight countries mentioned. The employers and workers rep resentatives on the governing body are elected as individuals by the respective groups at the conference, with the condition that two must belong to extraEuropean countries. 
The Government has specially noted the recommendations submitted by the workers' delegate. Several of the matters mentioned have already received consideration at various times, but the Government will further consider these subjects in due course. I commend the reports for perusal by honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
. -by  leave  - It is the intention of the Government to make a change in the licensing system introduced on the 22nd May, 1936, and to substitute a system of adequate duties where such action is necessary for the protection of Australian industry. The import quotas at present applying to motor chassis will, however, be retained. The motor chassis quota will continue on the present basis, which provides for the annual importation of chassis equal to the number imported during the twelve months ended the 30th April, 1936. In respect of other goods which are now subject to restrictions under the licensing system, the action necessary to determine what duties are adequate to protect the industries established under the licensing restrictions, or those which either have extended manufacturing operations or laid plans for establishment, will be put in hand forthwith. It will not, however, be possible to determine and apply the duties at once. A change-over from the licensing system to the imposition of duties cannot be made until Parliament meets after the forthcoming recess and in appropriate cases reference will be made to the Tariff Board. In the meantime the licensing system will be administered on the following basis :  - 
In respect of goods which are not competitive with Australian industry, licences will be granted for importation irrespective of the country of origin; 
In respect of goods which are competitive with Australian industry, the licensing restrictions at present in force will operate until duties adequate for the protection of the industries concerned have been determined and applied; (3)In respect of motor chassis, importation will continue on the present basis. 
The Commonwealth Government has arrived at this decision in the light of its experience during the last twelve months, and after carefully considering the factors operating for and against the retention of the licensing system, including the improvement of the trade balance since the restrictions wore first introduced. 
SenatorFOLL. - There will be ample opportunity to discuss the statement I have just made. It deals with certain proposals of the Government, and the usual procedure has been followed. 
These proposals are similar to a tariff schedule, of which notice is not given prior to its introduction into parliament. When tabled, a tariff schedule becomes operative immediately. 
The Appropriation Bill will be before the Senate this afternoon, and opportunity will then be given to discuss these proposals. The Government has nodesire to prevent discussion. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence any information to give to the Senate regarding the recent accidents to air force bombers, and can he give an assurance that adequate steps will be taken to investigate the causes of such accidents? 
SenatorFOLL. - Anticipating a question in connexion with these unfortunate accidents, the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Thorby)  has supplied the following information :  - 
No. 1 bomber squadron, stationed at Laverton, Victoria, left that aerodrome on Monday, the 29th November, for a training flight to Bourke, Charleville, Brisbane, Richmond, Cootamundra, and return to Laverton. The squadron consisted of nine Demon aircraft, each with a crew of two persons. 
The object of the flight was to give long cross-country andnavigational experience to the pilots of the squadron, as this is the only way in which a junior pilot can be trained in cross-country work. The pilots were all qualified to undertakea flight of this nature in charge of experienced squadron and flight commanders. 
Unfortunately, a series of mishapsoccurred, one of which resulted in the death of Pilot OfficerFallon, and the injury, fortunately not very serious, of Leading Aircraftman Fitzgerald. I am naturally deeply concerned at these occurrences, The Air Board has appointed a special committee, consisting of Group Captain W. H. Anderson, Wing CommanderE. C. Wackett, and Wing Commander A. W. Murphy, to make a thorough examination, with a view to arriving at the causes. The Air Accidents Investigation Committee, which investigates all such accidents, and was specially constituted to protect the public interests, will also submit a report after full inquiries have boon completed. 
In view of the promise made by the PostmasterGeneral some time ago that a full inqury would be made into the conditions of employment at country post offices, is the Minister in a position to say whether the inquiry has been instituted, and when the results are likely to be made known? 
The inquiry is now proceeding, but, as there are between 6,000 and 7,000 persons involved and the conditions vary considerably, the investigation must necessarily takea considerable time. I shall ascer tain the earliest date at which I am likely to receive a report, and let the honorable senator know. 
In view of the highly inflammable nature of the antiquated building now used as a post office at Sorell, Tasmania, has the PostmasterGeneral given further consideration to the representations that I made some time ago regarding the necessity for a new post office there? 
I do not like inflammable things, and I shall certainly have inquiries made regarding the Sorell post office. 
On the 2nd December,  Senator Collett  asked me, as representing the Minister for Defence, the following questions,  upon notice: - 
Has the Government been approached in regard to the survey and establishment of Reserve Empire Air Routes - particularly one connecting the west coast of Australia with the east coast of Africa? 
If so, and in view of the strategical importance attached to the possession of alternative lines of communications in warlike operations, docs the Government propose to take any action in the direction suggested? 
If not, why not? 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers: - 
. Yes. a proposal for a survey flight between the west coast of Australia (via Cocos and Seychelles Islands) and Africa was made firstly by  Mr. C.  L. K. Foot of Western Australia, and later by the Minister in Charge of the 150th Anniversary Celebrations, New South Wales. 2 and 3. The proposal was examined and the views of the United Kingdom Government have also been obtained. As a result, it is not considered that there is justification at this stage for the establishment of a Trans-Indian Ocean Air Service nor for incurring expenditure on a survey flight. 
I desire to ask the Postmaster-General, without notice, the following question :  - 
Now  that the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  has been elected and selected for the second time, can be tell the 
Senate how many timeshe will have to be elected and selected before the Brisbane and South Brisbane post offices have been built! 
Order ! 
asked the Min ister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What amount has the Federal Government made available to the Tasmanian Government for expenditure on roads in each of the last six years? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
The payments to Tasmania under the Federal Aid Roads Agreement for each of the last six years are as follows: - 

<graphic href="155332193712076_4_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the hook  October Revolution  by Stalin been banned? 
If so, on what grounds? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
The publication mentioned was placed on the prohibited list in 1934, because it was considered to be a prohibited import within themeaning of the Customs (Prohibited Imports.) Regulations. The Attorney-General's Department is being asked to review the publication again. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
How many applications were received for positions in the Air Force during the twelve months ending 31st October, 1937? 
Whatwas the number of successful applications ? 
What is the number of men in the Air Force at present? 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers :  - 

<graphic href="155332193712076_4_1.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that, during the hearing of the application by the Australian Workers' Union for an increase in the weekly wage of workers in the Murray River fruit industry of5s. 4d. to bring the basic wage up to £3 16s. per week, Chief Judge Dethridge, referring to the application, declared that what the court had to look at was the financial position of the industry, and on that it would have to decide what was the highest basic wage that it could afford to pay; the question whether it was a wage that would allow the employees to live as normal human beings was not of much importance? 
If so, can he say whether this statement is merely an expression of the Chief Judge's personal opinion or whether it is an authoritative statement of the principle by whichthe court is guided in its deliberations? 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
Chief Judge Dethridge, in the course of argument, stated: "We have to look at the financial position of the industry, which is the main thing to be considered. We have to say what at present can be regarded as the highest possible basic wage the industry can afford. We have to do our best to get that figure, and all general comments as to a wage fit for a human being, and so on, are not of much assistance. We give the best possible. . . 
We must give the best wage the industry can sustain, and we cannot do any more." 
Any statement made in the course of argument by any judge is  prima facie  to be regarded as a tentative expression of a personal view. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Will the Government consider the question of making special provision for the permanent appointment of qualified returned soldier linesmen who are not permanently appointed prior to reaching the age of 52 years? 
It is suggested that the present limit of age, namely, 51 years, should be regarded as reasonable for tlie permanent appointment of men who are to undertake the duties of linesman. 
My observations on the bill will be as brief as possible, having regard to the importance of the matters to which T desire to refer. First, I express the opinion very firmly held by members of the Opposition as to the inadvisability of returning to the pernicious habit of borrowing abroad. I am just wondering whether this Government has realized fully the possibilities opened up by a return to that practice, and whether it has given any consideration whatever to the effect it will have in relation to Commonwealth loan conversion operations now pending. Loans amounting to about £'72,000,000 will have to be converted during the coming year, and if the flotation of a loan of £2,000,000 on the United Kingdom market - equal to £2,500,000 in Australian currency - is likely to have a bacl effect upon these operations, that will be an additional reason why the 
Government should refrain from such borrowing. We all agree, I believe, that this new departure from what has been the practice during recent years, at any rate, is consequent upon the increased amount which the Government proposes to raise for defence. It will be generally admitted, also, I think, that our expenditure on defence will he not only a recurring item but also will grow as the years go on. Consequently, I submit that confidence in the Australian loan market must be greatly weakened if we borrow abroad instead of. paying our way. Especially would it be wise for us to pay our way in relation to the important matter of expenditure on defence. I suggest that the Government's proposal to raise this money on the other side of the wor.ld is entirely inconsistent with it? perpetual boast that prosperity has returned to this country. I submit, very definitely, that if this prosperity actually exists, a point upon which the Government and its supporters are so emphatic, every sane person must agree that such prosperity should pay its way. 
I certainly do not mean that we shall pay our way by borrowing abroad in order to meet defence commitments which must be a recurring and increasing liability. I point out that nearly six months of the current financial year has passed and already there is a surplus of over £1,0.00,000 in excess of the estimate .by the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey).  The Opposition has no objection to the. expenditure proposed for the relief of unemployment : nor do we complain about the extra amount now being asked for in respect of war pensions; and we have nothing but approval for the proposed allocations for the liberalization of maternity allowances. We claim, however, that the proposed expenditure on defence falls within an entirely different category and we submit that the amount which it is proposed to borrow abroad for this purpose should be raised by means of internal taxation, and that such taxation should be definitely placed upon the shoulders of those people  enjoying the biggest incomes, because it  will be the assets of such people which will have to be defended in the event of war. 
SenatorCOLLINGS.- I anticipated interjections of that nature, and, with all due respect to the honorable senator, I say that his interjection was just thoughtless. If it were my desire to prolong this debate, I should be prepared to answer in detail his inquiry. But briefly, I assert now that it is the workers of this country who give their lives in war and who, if fortunate to return from war, pay the taxes necessary to keep themselves alive and to finance past wars and help the country prepare for future wars ; they, also, finance the payments needed to compensate men incapacitated or suffering ill-health as the result of war service. Consequently, when an honorable senator makes an interjection of the nature of that just made by  Senator Grant,  I say, that the asset of human life is in a different category to human property. I submit that, as the major portion of the private wealth of this country is owned by a few people and none of it by any section of the great masses of the people, the main burden of paying for the defence of this country should be placed on the wealthy section. I am merely pointing out that the Government obviously admits that this country is unable to carry the full load of that expenditure, because it now proposes to raise a loan of £2,000,000, and, because I believe that its proposal is inquitious and dangerous, in view of the conversion commitments, which we should have to face during the coming year, I am making these remarks, and, as usual, am endeavouring not only to criticize the Government, but also to suggest some way out of its difficulties. I know that daily the Government has to face the squeals of the wealthy who complain of excessive taxation. I submit that the whole field of taxation requires revision. The squealers want such a review, not with a view to reducing the sum total of taxes, but with a view to altering the incidence of taxation. They do not want taxes reduced because they know that such reductions cannot be given, if they are to retain the benefits which they at present enjoy from the processes of government. What they want is the incidence of taxation shifted off their shoulders as far as possible on to the shoulders of those least able to bear it. I suggest that there should be a general revision of the incidence of present taxation. 
Reverting to my earlier remarks regarding loan flotations, I quote from the Melbourne  Herald,  which recently dealt with this very matter - 
An amount of £2,500,000 - part of the expenditure for defence - is to be raised by treasury bills in London. These shortdated securities are to be funded later and possibly others with them.  Mr. Casey  explains that the Loan Council is trying to limit the year's demand on the Australian market to £16,000,000 and it is mindful of the fact that towards the end of 1938 there will be Australian conversions amounting to £72,700,000.  His  reasoning can be understood, as also can his repugnance to meeting defence expenditure by extra taxation. Yet Australia financed itself through the worst years of world shortage and it can do so still. The London loan proposal is a step backward. Good financing with many millions should make it unnecessary. 
That opinion which appeared in a recent issue of the Melbourne  Herald,  which is not a Labour paper, is supported by the members of the Opposition in this chamber. I was interested to hear the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  read the report of the Australian delegate to the International Labour Office at Geneva, which shows that there is some need to make a determined effort to make up the leeway which occurs when seasonal industries cease or when we are faced with an economic depression. During the past few days the public press of Australia and various reliable authorities, who contribute to it, have deprecated the fact that some persons are already speaking of another depression. Of course, we must expect such comments, but history records that for many decades depressions have followed the periods of prosperity. The members of the Opposition do not make ill-considered statements in this chamber; but devote a good deal of their time to research work in order to ascertain the opinion of reliable authorities on the subjects which come before this chamber for discussion.  1 am confident that another financial and economic slump is in the offing, and it is the duty of the Government not to wait until it comes, but to prepare for it now. 
The honorable senator should not comment too happily on what the people did at the last general election. I suppose he wishes me to recognize that by an unfortunate accident the Government is still in the saddle and that it has received an extension of its political life. A further extension will not, I predict, be granted in 1940. We cannot overcome our difficulties by talking of prosperity, and we cannot prevent a further depression by suppressing our fears; but this Government and every legislator who takes his duties seriously should base his actions and words on economic facts. It is our responsibility to prevent the everrecurring booms and bursts. 
That is all we can do here, what else can we do but talk? 
The suggestion of the honorable senator is that I have not the capacity to use my brains, and that the honorable senator has a superabundance of that capacity. We are, sent here to express our opinions without fear or favour, and not to listen to inane, if not insane, interjections from honorable senators opposite. In order that I may be supported in the responsibility of saying that a slump is in the offing I shall quote some authorities on this point. 

 - Senator Abbott knows that neither he nor I will have occasion to be very seriously inconvenienced if a slump does occur, but if the Government is unprepared for such an emergency tens of thousands of persons will again be compelled to suffer the tortures of the damned as a result of unemployment, poverty, malnutrition and defective housing. Those are my reasons for asking the Government to get on with the job entrusted to it by the taxpayers. The  chairman  of the Bank of Adelaide,  Sir Howard  Lloyd, said - 
It is, however, unlikely, that the position will be completely retrieved for some time- 
He is speaking of the interest rates obtainable by the banks - as there is considerable leeway to make up. The banks in order to keep the commercial public together lost more heavily through the years of depression than they ordinarily would have done. 
Those are the words, not of a Labour fanatic, but of a responsible banking authority. He continued - 
And they may prefer not to continue the same percentage of loans, but rather to create some reserve lending power against possible future necessity. It is probable, therefore, that banks will not be such free lenders to the public. 
Surely that is an indication that the banks are already shortening sail. As soon as they commence to do that we are half-way on the road to the next depression. Merely because we have partially emerged from economic and financial chaos some honorable senators think that such a condition of affairs is not likely to arise again. 
I shall have something to say on that point in a moment. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of yesterday  Mr. Stevens,  the Premier of New South Wales, is reported to have said - 
Although I did not, at the time, reply to the right honorable gentleman, I made a mental note of his observation and resolved to deal with it at the first suitable opportunity. The statement of the former Leader of the Senate is true. Returning prosperity was apparent in Australia prior to the increase of prices for our exportable surplus primary products; but my point is that the turn of the tide was due, not to any action taken by the Lyons-Page Government, but entirely to the heroic measures adopted by the Scullin Labour Administration in the earlier, years of the depression. 
The note of dissent impels me to accept the challenge and prove my statement. This is what, the Melbourne  Age  had to say about the action taken by the Scullin Government to meet the depression - 
It is indisputable that at that juncture the courage and the prescience of the Scullin Government saved Australia. Faced with a national crisis the ministry took the only action that could avert a catastrophe. lt cancelled all its predecessor's financial administrative extravagances; it practised numerous anger-rousing economics. Fiscal prohibitions were widely imposed: 50 per cent, surcharges were added to many tariff duties. The engulfing flood of imports was checked; it declined from £1.43,000.000. in 1929, to £00,000.000, in 1930-31., 
I have other figures dealing with the steadying influence of the Scullin Government's heroic action at that critical time, and could, if necessary, furnish them to the Senate. Need I ask  Senator Pearce  and his friends if they have forgotten the beneficial effect on the finances of Australia of the huge internal loan conversion carried out by the Scullin Government, with the resultant immense saving in interest payments? 
Perhaps not, but for the purposes of this debate, Government supporters find it convenient to ignore the effect of the Scullin Government's financial policy on the economic recovery of Australia. Do they forget that, when the Scullin Government took office, Australian stocks were down to zero? 
Every one knows the level to which Australian stocks had slumped in the London market, and every one should remember that the turn of the economic tide in Australia was due entirely to the financial policy of the Scullin Government. 
I do not wish to appear in the role of a gloom-dispenser. I am. merely stating the facts of the present position as I see them. We on this side are not alone in our interpretation of the trend of events. No one can accuse  Mr. A.  C. Davidson, the General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales of political bias, because lie is not in politics and has no reason to fear any section of the electors. Yet he, too, utters a note of warning and offers a word of advice with respect to the present economic trend in Australia. Recently in a survey of the situation in Australia, he said there was no doubt that the upward trend had been splendid, no one could deny that the situation had improved, but this improvement was due almost entirely to the re-armament policies of the governments of various countries. Rearmament, he emphasized, could not go on for ever; it must stop some day, and unless appropriate measures were taken, there would be a grave risk of dislocation in industry. One could almost imagine that the statements of the General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales were the utterances of some rabid member of the Opposition in this chamber.  Mr. Davidson  clearly indicated that it was the duty of governments to prepare for the inevitable depression which would make itself evident when expenditure on rearmament ceased, and that the more useful course was to prepare a programme of national public works. 
I hope my colleague from Queensland is not suggesting that such expenditure should cease. It is obvious that the Government's public works programme is not sufficient to tide us over a major depression period. There is urgent need for a general revision of the entire situation. This Government has enough experts at its disposal to pre pare a plan to deal with the threatened slump, and now is the time to get on with the job. 
Ministers and their supporters are disposed to wax eloquent on this Government's defence programme. Although the Government has been in office for six years, it has not made adequate plans for the defence of Australia. There is nol a properly equipped aerodrome on which a fully loaded bomber plane could land with safety after an inch of rain, or landing ground suitable for immediate use if the worst should happen. 
It is true that the Government is feverishly speeding up its defence programme in preparation for an aggressor not so far specified. There is the same urgent need for an effective campaign against malnutrition of the people, but so far little has been done. The Government should now be making its plans for equally heroic measures to combat this evil in our midst, but we know that whatever is done the lot of the poor will be made harder, and the hurdon be lightened on those people who ought to carry it. 

 Mr. Colin Clark, Lecturer in Statistics at Cambridge University - he certainly is not a Labour man - in an address to the Constitutional Club in Brisbane, made an important statement dealing with the present economic prosperity in Australia. 
I know, because the Constitutional Club in Brisbane never invites Labour speakers to address its members.  Mr. Clark  is reported to have said - 
The close of the present year would mark the peak of the present economic prosperity and there would be signs of decline next year. The existing internal economic structure of Australia appeared eminently sound. Probable sources of disturbance were Britain and America. The forces of world depression could be attacked by two methods - additional public works expenditure by governments, and a policy of easy money on the part of the banks. 
That is entirely opposed to the inaction of the present Government, which is not prepared to embark on a policy of public  works, or to control the banking institutions of this country, in order to make available easy money or, more correctly, easy credit. The authorities to . which  Mr. Clark  referred are so numerous that one is almost overwhelmed to find the Leader of the Opposion in such excellent company. The annual report of the Bank of New South Wales submitted to the annual meeting held in Sydney on the 26th November last contains much valuable information which honorable senators would do well to read. I shall not quote extensively from the report, but shall read one or two important extracts from the speech of  Sir Thomas  Buckland, the  president  of the bank - 
Economists and business men have already begun to talk of the next slump. Fundamentally, there is no reason for believing that the end of prosperity is to be expected in the immediate future, and we should endeavour to distinguish between the true philosophers and the Jeremiahs. It is a good thing that we should take thought for to-morrow provided such speculation does not interfere with our efficiency to-day. It is true that there are some disturbing features in the present situation, but I believe the position to be basically sound at present.  A  group of influential British economists has recently urged the British Government to prepare a programme of works to be set in hand immediately should there be any signs of a recession in business activity. If such steps are taken, Britain may open a new chapter in economic history by armingagainst trade depression as well as the " King's enemies ". 
Had a, member of the Opposition in this Parliament said what  Sir Thomas  Buckland told the meeting, he would have been accused of being disloyal. I agree with the  president  of the Bank of New South Wales that now is the time to prepare against any future trade depression, just as we would prepare against the King's, enemies. Later in his speech,  Sir Thomas  Buckland said - 
We must not, however, overlook the causes of industrial expansion. It is the preoccupation of British manufacturers with armament requirements and the widespread shortage of iron and steel that are leading to the intensive development of Australian' heavy industry and its subsidiaries. Capital expenditure on a large scale is involved in expansion both at Port Kembla and Newcastle, and it is proposed to build a blast furnace in South Australia. But armament manufacture cannot be expanded indefinitely, and the shortage of iron and steel will not last. In view of these abnormal factors, the present development of industry may lead to surplus capacity unless our industries can develop a satisfactory export market. 
He then went on to deal with the necessity for developing our secondary industries. I propose to quote from his remarks in that connexion on another occasion, but. being desirous not to delay the proceedings unduly, I shall not do so now. I hope however, that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  will make a note of my suggestions, which are backed by authorities which he cannot ignore, with a view to seeing whether even the present Government cannot do something to plan economically as well as in other directions. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (  Western  Australia) [4.10]. - Logic is certainly not a strong point with the honorable senator who has just resumed his seat. When he was quoting the remarks of influential bankers, and reading the warnings that they had issued against the depression that the honorable senator says is ahead of us, my mind went back to a period, not so long ago, when the honorable senator's voice boomed in this chamber in denunciation of those very gentlemen whose advice he quoted to-day with such approval. Indeed, the echoes of the honorable senator's voice are still ringing in our ears.  Senator Brown,  too, had a good deal to say about the refusal of banks to release credit. The charge against the banks was that they had shortened credit, thereby causing the depression. Now we are asked to accept their guidance. 
 The right honorable gentleman was not in the chamber when I dealt with that point. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.According to the Labour party a year ago, these financiers deliberately and coldbloodedly caused the depression; to-day we are asked to accept their advice. 
 They have changed their front in the meantime. 
The honorable senator quoted with approval from a number of capitalistic newspapers which at other times he has denounced as the " tools of the financial magnates " who would impose their deadly schemes  upon  the world at large. The honorable senator also had something to say about  Mr. S.  M. Bruce. Probably he does not remember that  Mr. Bruce  was the first public man of standing who, speaking with a knowledge of world conditions, warned Australia of the approach of the depression. In 192S, at a conference between the Federal and State Governments,  Mr. Bruce  made an historic speech in which he said" plainly that  Australia was heading for a depression, and, accordingly, should shorten sail. His advice was not heeded; on the contrary, he was denounced not only by the Labour party, but also by members of bis own party, and, most of all, by the press which generally supported him. It is well that that fact also should he remembered. 
The honorable gentleman also told us that Australia's' recovery from the depression was due entirely to the heroic action, taken by the Scullin Government. It is refreshing to hear him describe that action as heroic, for not so long ago another term was applied to it. I remember that when measures to implement the Premiers plan were introduced into this chamber - to say nothing of what happened in the other branch of the legislature - the welkin  rang with the denunciation of them by honorable senators of the Labour party. Those measures, which aimed at the restoration of the finances of this country, were carried, not by the votes of members of the Labour party, but by those of the United Australia party and the Country party. 
A. Labour government introduced them. 
That is so, and the figures are there to prove it. 
Nevertheless, the Labour Government went on with the bill. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, with the support of the members of the United Australia party and Country party. Had the Scullin Government been forced to depend on the support of members of the Labour party, that legislation would have been defeated. The honorable senator must, think that we in this chamber have short memories when he gives to the Labour party the credit for the financial rehabilitation that resulted from the passing of those measures. The honorable senator leaves one important factor out of his calculations, namely, the part played by fear in bringing about the depression. It was not merely the fall of the national income, although that was catastrophic, that caused the dislocation; there vi'a.s  also the fear of the people, due to the Labour party being in power in the federal sphere -and  Mr. Lang  in office in New South Wales. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.One of the great factors leading to the economic rehabilitation of Australia, was the removal of  Mr. Lang  from office. When the fear of his influence began to wane, and tie effects of the financial emergency legislation became evident, Australia got back again on the road to prosperity. As evidence of what I have said, I remind honorable senators that not until the Scullin Government had been out of office for six months did the' unemployment figures show a decrease. 
Another remark made by the honorable senator this afternoon which attracted my attention was that all the defence expenditure was  in  the interests of the wealthy classes. 
 I did not, say all of it. 
 That is so. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable senator, as a well-read man, must know that that is not correct. Any' war against Australia can only come from one of the military dictatorships in the world - Germany, Italy, Japan or Russia. Does the honorable senator really believe that if one of those nations successfully waged war against Australia the lot of the working man in this country would be as happy as it is to-day? Take trade unions as an example. To-day  in  Australia trade unions are free and powerful; not only are they free, but they are protected ; they are registered under the arbitration laws of the country, and. therefore, have about them the mantle of the law's protection. They are legal entities. What is the position of trade unions in any one of the countries I have just mentioned? Is there any freedom for them? What happens to them in Germany. Italy or Japan? I know that the growth of trade unions  i3  cultivated  in  Russia, but is any individual freedom accorded to the members of those bodies  in  the expression of their views? Is any trade union in Russia free to criticize the Government? In Australia,, not only can the individual trade unionist criticize th e Government of his country, but the trade unions, as organizations, can agitate, pass resolutions, and promote public: movements against the Government. Therefore, the assertion that the workers of Australia have nothing to lose, or to fight for, or to defend in this country, is absolutely ridiculous. I come then to those who fight for our cause. I happen to have been associated with the organization of the Australian Imperial Forces, and I know that it is simply not true to say that the Australian Imperial Forces represented only one class or section in Australia. It represented all sections. One of the things of which Australia has reason to be proud is that, when the call came, the members of the Australian Imperial Forces sprang from every section of the community, from the poorest homes and the wealthiest homes. I remember going through a camp at Enoggera in Queensland and seeing there a tent in which were eight light horsemen whose aggregate income was £30,000 . a year. Yet they were simply members of a light horse troop. When I cast my eyes around this chamber, and see  Senator Cooper, Senator Duncan-Hughes, Senator Collett, Senator Sampson,  and others, I say to myself : "  Senator Collings  on other occasions calls these gentlemen capitalists, and sometimes, without looking at them, he refers to them as bloated capitalists, but they fought in the ranks of the Australian Imperial Forces, or in the armies that participated in the Great War." It is the pride of Australia that there was no class distinction in the Australian Imperial Forces and that all classes contributed to its glorious success. The Leader of the Opposition should never forget that the passport to command in the Australian Imperial Forces was 'from the ranks. Every man in the ranks had the opportunity to rise to command, and thousands upon thousands of the officers of the Australian Imperial Forces commenced there. 
As regards payment for the war and for defence, the Leader of the Opposition is equally astray. If he looks up the statistics, he will find that our taxation can be broadly and roughly divided into SO per cent, direct and 50 per cent, indirect. It would, of course, be foolish to say that only the working class pays the indirect taxation, which is paid by all sections of the community, although I admit that the worker pays more in indirect taxation in proportion to his income, because his consumption is very much the same as that of the wealthy man. That is why indirect taxation does press more hardly on the working man than it does on the wealthy, but when our direct taxation is analyzed - I am speaking now of that portion of the taxation which is directed to defence and the burden of the late war - it is found that the working man, on the basic wage and below it, pays nothing at all. 
 All taxation is passed on to the toiler. Eventually it reaches him, and the honorable senator knows it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That argument reverts to the old contention that the only factors in the production of wealth are labour and land. I do not believe that. It might be so in a primitive society, but in a complex society such as exists to-day, if we tried to produce simply with labour and land, the world could not carry one tenth of its present population. Other factors to-day are capital in the shape of machinery, and capital in the form of goods. Capital, therefore, does play a most important part in production. Those who provide the capital are those who pay the direct taxation out of all proportion to their numbers in the community. Any one who reads the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation will be astonished to find what a small number of people contribute the great bulk of the direct taxation of Australia. Another aspect which is worth pointing out to the Leader of the Opposition, whomI should very much like to put on to the right track before I leave the Senate, is that taxation in this country is graded, and, therefore, the wealthier a man is the higher the rate he has to pay. Not only does he pay more, but he pays at a higher rate. Consequently, taking all these facts into consideration, the claim put forward by the honorable senator that the working man has nothing to defend in this country vanishes into thin air. He has, on the contrary, everything to defend. The most valuable thing he has to fight for is his liberty.  His  economic position is also worth a great deal to him. Let him remember what the Arbitration Act has done for the wage-earner in Australia. He has got all that by using his political power and political freedom. He would not have it in any of the totalitarian countries. If one of them conquered Australia, he would lose all those rights and privileges. Therefore, he has everything worth while to fight for and defend in this country. Secondly, he does not have to do all the paying, nor does he do the main part of paying for defence. 
The Leader of the Opposition also argued that, because the authorities whom he quoted, and he himself, fear a depression, we should at this time increase our expenditure on public works. 
 No, I said : " Have your plans ready. " 
I could not help thinking, when listening to  Senator Pearce,  that, withall his great ability, he represented a past generation, and was thinking its thoughts. He accused members of the Labour party of saying things which we have not said. Then, after making those accusations against us, he set out, with the assistance of his comrades, to break down arguments which we are supposed to have put forward. I listened to my leader  (Senator Collings)  and I do not think that once during the course of his speech did he mention the totalitarian states. No member of the Labour party in this country,  or in the Old Country, so far as I know, is anxious to eliminate democracy, or impose upon the peoples of their countries a totalitarian system of government. None of the members of the Labour party has the slightest desire to do such things. 
Despite the liars, including those from the opposite side, who spoke during the election, we claim that we have something to defend in Australia, and the Labour party proposes to defend it. We have said all along, as a party, that we recognized the need for a country, and above all for a democratic community, to defend itself. Much of what has been said by  Senator Pearce  has been answered time and time again from this side of the chamber. I noticed that, when my leader mentioned the substitution of taxation for borrowing, there was an immediate squeal from two or three senatorson the other side whose pockets are very well lined. I thought at the time that the reason why they oppose taxation is that when their money is handed over to the Government in the form of taxes there is no return so far as they are immediately concerned, and no interest is paid on it, whereas a system of loans, whether the money be borrowed in the Old Country or here, is a means of maintaining the present financial order. That is why honorable senators opposite are always prepared to support a policy of borrowing rather than of taxation. Personally, I am not a lover of taxation, but I recognize that under the present limited system, some form of it is necessary. Whilst the present financial conditions exist we must have taxation. It is the policy of tory governments, however, to impose the highest amount of taxes Upon the workers, wherever possible, and to relieve their own friends, the rentier class. That has been proved true, and they propose to do it now, although  Senator A.  J. McLachlan did not answer me when I asked questions on the subject. The Government, for example, proposes in its forthcoming legislation for national insurance, to impose further taxes upon the people, in order to make them pay for their own pensions. Honorable senators opposite say that I am wrong, but I am pointing out an instance which proves that I am right.. I have shown on several occasions how indirect taxes, paid by the masses, have increased over the years, and direct taxes have relatively decreased, despite what  Senator Pearce  said. No matter how many statistics the honorable senator brings forward, he cannot deny that indirect taxation in relation to direct taxation has increased. He may put up all kinds of arguments, but, when realities have to be faced, the main test to apply to each man is " What are you doing in the community? What is the part that you are playing in the development of Australia?" If we have a rentier class drawing interest, and rendering no useful service to the community, it does not matter if we take the lot from them ; from our point of view, such action might be just. Looking at a sheet of statistics, Ministers may point out that these people are only a small section of the community, and then invite attention to the large proportion of the revenue which they provide. But what is that class doing? How far is it assisting the community? Then, by contrast, one should study the figures in respect of the mass of the people - all the workers, not just the pick and shovel "stiffs"- and ask: "What do they do?" A proper analysis along these lines would show that the workers are doing the real work, practically all the work of the community. It has been said that we should let the future pay ; the future cannot pay. All the work now essential is being done now, and, should war break out, the provision of all the necessary requirements becomes part and parcel of the work to-day. I emphasize that none of the far-fetched arguments that may be adduced by honorable senators opposite to the contrary will make the slightest difference to the position as I have stated it. I repeat that while the masses of the people are doing the work of the community, a privileged few live on them and draw interest without giving any decent return to the community. Personally, I believe that some day we shall end the present financial system so as to make it possible to utilize all the labour of the community. We shall release the productive forces of this country and enable all our people to be employed. But to-day, capitalism is in control, and all the actions of tory governments are directed towards maintaining the present financial system, with the result that the productive system has to be narrowed down in order to fit into it. We say that the productive system should be the paramount consideration, and that the financial system should be its servant. That is not the case to-day. An effort was made to criticize my leader because of statements which he voiced in regard to the private banks. These institutions are part and parcel of the present scheme of things; the leaders of banks are directors of private companies, whilst directors of private companies are also directors of private banks. But the banks themselves, in order to safeguard their interests when there is a possibility of a depression occurring, must, of necessity, limit credit and call in overdrafts. My leader was quite right when he said that during the last depression" the banks deliberately called in overdrafts and limited the supply of credit, thus intensifying the depression. That cannot be denied ; it is admitted by the general manager of the Bank of New South Wales,  Mr. Davidson,  and various economists. . 
I shall not deny for one moment that the banks will look after themselves, but it must be admitted that the banking system as it operates in our midst can increase, or decrease the supply of credit to the people, and in times of economic stress, arising out of the system under which we live, they do that. A great power, therefore,is vested in the private banks. To-day these institutions have realized their mistakes in the past; they realize that they may have gone too far. Now they are very much afraid of a depression occurring in the near future. I emphasize the point that no matter how eloquent may be the Leader of the Senate, no matter how much pathos he may put into his voice, no matter how forceful his assertions regarding the prospects of prosperity, the fact remains that within the present system certain influences are at work which make it inevitable that there must be changes from periods of prosperity to periods of depression. I also emphasize that our modern financial system has been the system  par excellence  of modern economic development; while the world is progressing and developing, a system that is based upon interest - upon the prosperity of the banking system within the financial system - is the best possible for world expansion, but, when the inevitable contraction, to which I have referred, occurs, that banking system cannot function so effectively. The real truth of the matter is that the world is reaching a stage when production in respect of thousands of commodities is becoming static; there is no room for expansion. Such a developmentis reflected in the financial system, and, in order to bolster up that system in the face of such difficulties, a tremendous amount of money is being expended on armaments. Dealing with this matter  World Trade  states - 
Sight must not be lost of the fact that in a large number of countries, industrial recovery has been developed on an unhealthy artificial basis and is, in many cases, directly related to the alarming increase in the activity of the armaments industry. Even if we want to be optimistic, we must recognize that the present expansionist movement does not rest on very solid foundations. 
That is not a statement from the mouth of  Mr. Lang,  or an extract from the  Labor Daily;  it is an extract from the official journal of the International Chamber of Commerce. It says that our boasted prosperity is based on the unstable foundation of increased expenditure on armaments ; yet even in this country millions of pounds are to be spent in that direction. There will, consequently, be increased employment for a time, but we on this side ask, "What are those controlling governments doing to provide against the crisis that will arise when that expenditure ceases ? " That is a fair question to put to this Government. One point made in the Governor-General's Speech was that the Government proposes to establish a mortgage bank. As the result of the far-reaching investigation, and wonderful report made by the Royal 
Commission on Monetary and Banking Reform, all the present Government can say is that it will establish a .mortgage bank in order to lend a few pounds to &gt;'he little man and, perhaps, to the poor politician should he want to find a job outside of parliament. Some time ago, this Government allocated ?12,000,000 in order to rehabilitate the farmers of this country, but of that amount only ?1,750,000 has been expended to date. As I said previously, many of our farmers who now expect assistance from this quarter will be in Heaven before their turn comes. My leader was justified when lie accused the Government of failing to bring forward any real policy that will contribute towards the economic development of Australia in the interests of its people instead of a few private institutions. 
 Ye3,  but  Senator Duncan-Hughes  himself said that many of the proposals outlined in the GovernorGeneral's Speech will not be carried out. 
Yet we are faced with these vital problems. Whilst it is understandable that a spirit of selfcongratulation should permeate the Government because it was victorious at the last, election, it should not allow that spirit to run away with it, but should realize the seriousness of the present economic position from every point of view. We on this side recognize the full import of the present situation, and, whilst we are not jeremiahs, we have read the past and we believe that the future may present certain difficulties if we do not take steps to obviate them. In that event, we shall find ourselves in a worse position than we have experienced in the past. Prosperity is only relative; even with our present measure of prosperity, thousands are still going short of the necessaries of life. Any honorable senator who is familiar with conditions in Sydney knows that there are thousands in that city on the dole and on relief work. There can be no real prosperity while such a position exists. 
Recently I suggested the desirability that Ministers of the Crown should not be engaged overmuch outside their duties to the country. The day has arrived when Ministers should give the whole of their attention to their ministerial work and, if they have any, abandon their directorships in companies which, if they wish to do their duty towards the investors in such companies, must take up much of their time. There is an ever-increasing need for our Ministers to concentrate on their duty towards the Government. I notice that this matter was brought up by  Mr. Blackburn  about twelve months ago in the House of Representatives, when he asked of the Prime Minister the following questions: - 
Does any member of his Cabinet hold a directorship in any company or corporation ? If so, as to each member so holding, what is the company or corporation? 
The right honorable gentleman made the following reply : - 
No reason can be seen why information of this personal character should be supplied to the honorable  member 

 Mr. Blackburn went on to speak about the need for Ministers to attend to their ministerial work.- He said - 
Many honorable members will recall that on several occasions the late  Mr. Gladstone  declared that no director of a public company ought to be a member of a cabinet. That rule was strictly enforced hy the CampbellBannerman  Ministry in 1900. A reference to the matter will be found at pages 234 and (i39 of Volume 154 of the Fourth Series of th, Parliamentary Debates. 

 Sir Henry Campbell Bannerman made it perfectly clear that he was carrying out tin1 policy of excluding from the Cabinet mcn who held directorships, except on philanthropic bodies or in cases in which their own private business had been converted into  what we in Australia would call proprietary companies. 
The business of this country, which  Senator Pearce  said a few days ago is much more arduous and complex than it was 25 or 30 years ago, needs the entire attention of Cabinet Ministers. In these days when so many pressing problems are confronting the. country, Ministers should devote the whole of their activities to the country's interests. 
wish now to deal briefly with the subject of defence. On the 28th November last an illuminating article written by  Major General  Bennett appeared in the  Sunday Sun,  in which he made certain statements which support the Labour party's defence policy. He said- that in the event of war we must depend largely upon an air force, and that - 
An invasion presupposes that our enemy has command of the sea. Australia must light her own battle alone. 
A lot has been said about a possible invasion, and if it he true that an enemy can defeat our naval forces and invade Australia what will be the position of an Australian army and an Australian air force? The members of the Labour party said that the air force should be the principal arm of defence and MajorGeneral Bennett supports that contention.  Senator Abbott  implied that the members of that party are disloyal. 
The honorable senator said that in a crisis the people of Australia are loyal, and the inference to be drawn from that remark is that because an anti-Labour Government was returned the members of the Labour party and their supporters are disloyal. Some persons have said that those who support the Labour party are opposed to the British Empire. During the last pactions there were plenty of liars amongst the tory leaders and their supporters. Major-General Bennett also criticized the position of our citizen forces in these terms - 
What of our military leaders? Nothing effective is being done to train senior citizen force officers for high command. It would appear on the other hand that senior citizen officers are not wanted. They are not given thu full rank they are entitled to when commanding brigades and divisions. Only two of the four infantry divisions are commanded by citizen officers and it is well known that attempts have been made to hand the command of all divisions to permanent officers. Experience has proved that citizen officers can handle our citizen army more efficiently than permanent officers. Our permanent officers are trained as staff officers and not as commanders. The last great war showed our permanent officers to be efficient staff officers and our citizen leaders possessed the capacity to lead. 
That is a reply to the remarks of  Senator Pearce  that in the Great War there was no class distinction. Yet,  Today,  according to Major-General Bennett, there is antagonism between the two sections and in the future we are not likely to have the services of such brilliant leaders as the late  Sir John  Monash. I trust that the Minister representing the Minister for Defence will have inquiries made to ascertain the truth or otherwise of the statement I have quoted. The same writer also said., "  As  far as the rank and file are concerned the present position is appalling." The members of the Labour party told the truth about the army, navy and air force, in the hope that a policy of action rather than of inaction would be adopted.  I  trust that as the result of agitation by the Labour movement the Government will improve our defence forces in such a way that the people of this continent can rest assured that Australia is adequately defended. This, I maintain, can be done only by developing the air force. 
.- I should not have spoken but for the mock heroics of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  who delivers practically the same speech whenever he addresses the chamber. Unfortunately, the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues have short memories. They have forgotten the vital things that happened during their short political careers. The remarks of the Leader of the Opposition are given some prominence in the press, and it is my duty to let the public know how insincere are his statements. The honorable senator had the audacity to charge this Government with oppressing the needy, imposing taxes on the poor, and relieving the wealthy of their responsibilities in that respect. But these are mere tarradiddles. The facts are against him. The honorable senator has assisted to impose heavy taxes on the poor in this community. When some honorable senators on this side of the chamber have endeavoured to reduce the taxes imposed on the poor, the honorable senator and his colleagues have always opposed us. What did the honorable" senator and his colleagues do when tariff schedules were before this chamber ? Did they assist the under-dog? We endeavoured to restore dates to the free list, but  the honorable senator voted for the imposition of a duty. Was that helping the poor? Every effort was made by some honorable senators on this side of the chamber to reduce the duty on other commodities which the poor people must use, but the Leader of the Opposition, who poses as the champion of the needy, supported duties which increased costs. I do not condemn an opponent who is earnest, but I cannot stand a hypocrite. The statistics ' published in the annual report of the Commissioner for Taxation show conclusively that in Australia the wealthy pay exceedingly high taxes, while- the poor are exempt. Notwithstanding this fact the honorable senator has the audacity to denounce the Government in an endeavour to hoodwink the people, with the object of securing votes. On another occasion the honorable senator refused to help me to remove a burden from the backs of the poorer people. For four years I tried to obtain sufficient support to amend the income tax assessment law with the object of altering one feature of the companies tax which was pressing with undue severity upon a relatively poor section of the community. I tried year after year to have the injustice removed, but the Leader of the Opposition, who is supposed to champion the cause of the under-dog, refused to assist rae. 
Yes. On that occasion there was an unholy alliance between the Opposition and the Government.  Senator Brown,  the chief henchman of the Leader of the Opposition, who charged the members of the United Australia party with telling lies during the last election campaign, apparently has forgotten the lies told by the members of the Labour party. Has he forgotten the statement made by some members of the Labour party that the Lyons Government is pledged to conscription? Is that not a lie? . 
Yes. During the heat of an election campaign the representatives of all political parties may make exaggerated statements, but there was no justification for any member of the Labour party saying that the Lyons Government is pledged to conscription. The honorable senator also referred to the loan to be raised overseas, and voiced his antagonism to private enterprise. We are told that instead of borrowing abroad to meet defence expenditure, the Government should increase the burden on people who are already heavily taxed. The Leader of the Opposition does not realize that excessive taxation of industry will reduce the amount of capital available for the employment of the workers. 
I am well aware of  the  hatred of the Leader of the Opposition for private enterprise in every shape and form. If he had his way every industrial activity in Australia would be nationalized. 
On numberless occasions the Leader of the Opposition and hi3 supporters have fiercely attacked the banking institutions as if all the people associated with them were criminals, whereas every one .knows the important part played by the private banks in the development of this country. The principal complaint of honorable senators is in respect of interest payments required by banks or other institutions that lend money. I did not read, during the recent election campaign, that the Leader of the Opposition or any of his friends had anything to say against rents, although actually there is no difference between interest for the use of money and rent for the use of fixed property. If, for example, I let a house worth £1,000 for 30s. a week, or £75 a year, indirectly I lend the person occupying the house that amount of money and make a charge for it. If, however, I make a direct loan of £1,000 to a person for. a charge of 5 per cent., or £50 a year, I would he, according to the Leader of the Opposition, in the category of criminals. I cannot understand the mentality of people who make a distinction between an interest charge for money loaned and rent charged for the occupancy of a  house or the use of a horse and cart. It is about time that the people of Australia had brought home to them the hollowness of the so-called argument about the iniquity of interest charged by banks and other financial institutions. The Leader of the Opposition went on to speak of the return of the Government to power as an accidental happening. Need I remind him that he and Iris Queensland colleagues would not have been returned but for the nomination of the Douglas Credit candidates? 
The Leader of the Opposition also had something to say about the effect of the Scullin Government's financial policy on the return of prosperity in Australia.; yet, strange to relate, he denied that there is prosperity in this country. He persisted in speaking about a depression which, he declared, is about to descend upon us, although he must know that the percentage of unemployed in Australia at the present time is considerably below that of pre-depression years. Notwithstanding his championship of the financial policy of the Scullin Government, unemployment was extremely acute during its terms of office, and not until the advent of the Lyons Administration was a diminution in the number of unemployed noticeable. These are facts which speak for themselves. I shall say no more. 
.- This is an appropriate time to stress the grave responsibility resting on the shoulders of the Australian delegation to the forthcoming conference in London to ensure that the benefits of the Ottawa agreement are not lost to the canned and dried fruits industries, particularly the former. Growers are very much concerned that they may suffer in the proposed trade pact between Great Britain and the United States of America. The prosperity and stability of the canned fruits industry depend on a profitable export trade. Although the benefits first enjoyed under the Ottawa agreement have been whittled down by about half by changes .in currency values, they are still of considerable importance. Exports of Australian canned fruits to Great Britain have increased from 554,207 cases in 1932, when the Ottawa agreement was signed, to 1,450,000 cases this year. This is  a.  remarkable development due entirely to British preference for the Australian fruit. Prior  to  1932, growers were not sure that their exports would be sold at profitable prices, if sold at all, in Great Britain. Hundreds of soldier settlers repatriated into this industry made little or no progress. To-day there is an air of prosperity in the rich and extensive  Goulburn  Valley. If canned fruits from the United States of America are allowed entry into Great Britain on the same terms as canned fruits from Australia, cut-throat competition will he inevitable, and the industry will receive a staggering blow. The large and prosperous community dependent on the stability of the industry will suffer. The depreciation of the currency of the United States of America reduced the effectiveness of the preference from ls. 6d. to lOd. a dozen 30-oz. tins, and increased the competition of Californian fruits on the British  market. 
The quality of our fruits, the fact that British consumers are not exploited, and that Australia, can supply 60 per cent, of Britain's requirements, are factors which our representatives to the forthcoming conference might very well stress. It is hoped that the Australian delegation will take a firm stand, and oppose any further whittling down of the preference now operating. 
With regard to the dried fruits industry, anxiety is not so acute. At present there is a British preference of £10 10s. a ton on sultanas and £2 . a ton- on currants. There has' been no suggestion that this preference is endangered, but any reduction would have a serious effect on this prosperous industry! It is only by the 15 per cent. British preference and inter-dominion preference in terms of the Ottawa agreement that the dried fruits industry lias developed and become stabilized. 
Responsible members  of  the Government talk about defence and migration. What better personnel could we have in time of national . emergency than these virile and contented settlers? What is the use of considering migration when the men on the land are in danger of losing their livelihoods through the grant of some concession to the United States of 
America ? . This preference, no matter from what angle it is viewed, must be retained. 
.- The motion affords me an opportunity to bring under the notice of the Senate, certain proposals that were placed before the Government a few months ago by the Wheatgrowers Union of Western Australia, with the approval of the Wheatgrowers Federation of Australia, for the better stabilization of prices for wheat throughout the Commonwealth. The basis of this scheme was that during the visit to Great Britain of Commonwealth Ministers to attend the Coronation celebrations, they should see if arrangements could be made to sell the whole of the Australian wheat crop to the British Government for use in Great Britain. We do not know whether the subject was mentioned by the Prime Minister, but to-day I received from  Mr. T.  H. Powell, the  President  of the Wheatgrowers Union, copies of the correspondence in connexion with the matter, with a request to bring it to the notice of Ministers with a view to having it discussed when the renewal of the Ottawa agreement is under consideration. On the 9th February, 1937,  Mr. Powell  wrote to the Prime Minister direct urging the advantages of the scheme. He pointed out that although the price for wheat was at that time higher than it had been for some time, there had been a succession, of low prices for six years, due to droughts, grasshoppers, and other pests, with the result that the majority of growers in Western Australia had been obliged to give liens over their crops to merchants, banks and other financial institutions, consequently they had not benefited to any extent from the higher market rates. The same may be said of very many wheat-growers in the other States.  Mr. Powell  also stressed that the prosperity of the Commonwealth was bound up with the prosperity of the wheat-growing industry, which gave more employment than any other single industry in Australia. Ho urged that when the Prime Minister was in England, he should discuss with the British Government the possibility of the purchase of all the surplus Australian wheat at an agreed price, and that if the whole of the surplus could not be bought, arrangements should he madu for the sale of a quota from each State on the basis of the average exports for the last five years. The price suggested was 4s 9d. a bushel at sidings from which 3d. a bushel should be deducted as a contribution to the cost of installing terminal elevators, so that the net price to the grower would be 4s. 6d. a bushel. Prior to the departure of the Prime Minister for london, the Wheatgrowers Union was advised that the request had been noted and would have consideration, but no information about, the matter has since been received. During the absence from Australia of the Prime Minister, the scheme was brought to the notice of the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr. Earle Page)  who intimated that the Government was not prepared to take action. I have been requested by the Wheatgrowers Union to place details of this important scheme before the Senate and the Government in order that it may be incorporated in the renewed Ottawa agreement. I now do so and I urge that full and sympathetic consideration be given to it. The scheme is as follows: - 
No ; there are two organizations in the State, and I belong to the Primary Producers' Association. I was pleased, however, to. put before the Senate the views of the Wheat Growers' Union on this important subject when asked to do so. 
It is regrettable that in his criticism of the Government's defence policy the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  should have used such extravagant language as that contained in his statement that not one aerodrome in this country is in a condition to allow a fully loaded bombing aeroplane to land after one inch of rain has fallen. The honorable gentleman knows that at the Archerfield aerodrome in Queensland, the largest civil passengercarrying aeroplane in Australia recently landed successfully shortly after that State had been blessed by bounteous rains. Although it carried 21 passengers, it landed and took off without difficulty. 
SenatorFOLL. - That the honorable senator's remarks are inaccurate is borne out by the statement which I read earlier to-day in relation to recent air accidents. The Air Force is continually practising under war conditions, and bombing machines are in use almost every day. 
In order to place the facts before the Leader of the Opposition, I shall quote from a speech delivered during the last Parliament by the then Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill),  in which he set out what was being done in connexion with aerodromes and landing grounds generally.  That  policy is being continued by the present Minister in the new administration. 
 Sir Archdale  Parkhill said: - 
In keeping with the increase in regular services and the necessity for facilities for night flying, an active policy of improvement and development of aerodromes throughout the Commonwealth is being continued. This provides for the enlargement of landing areas, the construction of hard-surfaced runways for wet weather operations, and the installation of lighting equipment at aerodromes and airway beacons along the air routes. 
The Leader of the Opposition knows that in Queensland there are aerodromes equipped with modern lighting, which are available to both civil and military aircraft. The statement continued - 
Much progress has been made in the lighting of air routes. In the first instance lighting was provided at Darwin, on the Cloncurry to Longreach section of the Brisbane-Darwin route, and on theKalgoorlie to Forrest section of the Perth-Adelaide route. Activities are now being concentrated on the full equipment for night flying at all the capital city aerodromes and at Launceston, as the junction of the air services linking Tasmania with the mainland. 
Considerable progress is also being made in the lighting of aerodromes at intermediate points. New lauding grounds have been acquired and prepared between Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne. It is proposed to continue this development and to extend these facilities over the Melbourne-Adelaide and Adelaide-Perth routes. This will involve the acquisition, preparation and lighting of several new landing grounds, and the provision and installation of airway rotating beaconsat a number of intermediate points along these air routes. 
A further development is the acquisition of sites, erection of buildings and the laying on of power supplies for wireless and meteorological services. 
The improvement of landing grounds for the operation of regular air services on the Brisbane-New Guinea and Adelaide-Darwin routes is now in hand and will be continued during 1937-38. 
The Government is endeavoring to keep abreast of developments in regard to aircraft, and honorable senators can rest assured that the things mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition are not, being overlooked. 
The honorable gentleman has heard the defence policy of the Government expounded on a number of occasions, and he knows that the Government is alive to the developments that are taking place. 

 Senator Brown quoted extensively from an article by Major-General Bennett. which appeared in a Sydney newspaper recently. I shall say no more on the subject than that the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Thorby)  has informed me that the subject is receiving consideration. I conclude by reminding honorable senators that utterances in this chamber with respect to the unpreparedness of Australia against attack go out to the world, and that they should therefore be careful not to make inaccurate statements. It is for that reason that I have taken this early opportunity to correct some of the inaccuracies in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. 
wi  reply  - It would appear that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and his  deputy (Senator Brown)  spend their week-ends collecting newspaper cuttings with a view to embarrassing members on this side of the chamber. Apparently, the Leader of the Opposition flatters himself that some of the things which he readto us this afternoon are the utterances of men who might be regarded as almost the fountain heads of economic wisdom. He twitted the Government with the intention to borrow abroad ?2,000,000 which he rightly said represented nearly ?2,500,000 in Australian -currency. He made it appear that what the Government contemplated was a heinous offence, but I remind him that if the money were not borrowed abroad, an equivalent amount would have to be sent out of Australia to pay for equipment which cannot be produced locally. When he tells us that the raising of that money abroad will affect the conversion of loans falling due in the near future he talks nonsense, because, even if the money were borrowed in this country, the reservoir from which we have to draw for that conversion - and I do not refer to that supposedly inexhaustible reservoir which some members of the Opposition appear to think exists - -would be lessened by a similar sum. So far from there being anything in the policy of the Government that would increase our overseas indebtedness, or imperil our position, I remind honorable senators that since 1931 Australia's oversea indebtedness has been reduced by nearly ?9,500,000. Surely that is something in the nature of conservation against that clay which the honorable senator ha3 predicted. I have always been of. the opinion that one of the economic troubles of this country is that the amount owing overseas is out of proportion to our total indebtedness as a nation. The honorable senator said a good deal about the need for preparation to alleviate the consequences of inevitable depression, but he did not put forward one constructive idea as to the nature of the preparation that should be made. The figures which I have quoted this afternoon provide ample evidence that the Government is fully alive to the situation. 
The honorable senator did say something in a general way along those lines ; but, surely, this is not the time to put such a policy into  operation. Wages are being increased as a result of the prosperity which exists. Only yesterday the Government announced a prosperity allowance of ?10 a year to male public servants, and ?5 a year to females, representing an additional charge of ?500,000 per annum on the revenues of the country. Yet the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  suggests that the Government -should finance all its activities-out of surpluses. The strokes and blows that we suffer from time to time have to be guarded against, and if the Treasurer, in his wisdom, finances conservatively, it is with a view to guarding against such happenings. The Leader of the Opposition said also that we should take all the money required for defence out of revenue, and that the " under-dog " should pay nothing towards it.  Senator Pearce  has already shown the stupidity of the statement that the only people who have anything to lose by a foreign invasion are those who have worldly wealth. 1 venture to think that those who have the most wealth are often in a better position to protect themselves and safeguard their freedom than are the poorer classes. What has been the fate of those classes in China to-day? They are being mown down by the thousands. When war stalks the country the " under-dog " has not much chance. 
What does he pay for? What does it matter to him whether the money for defence comes out of revenue or loan? Who has to pay the interest and find the principal ? lt is the rentier class, to whom  Senator Brown,  refers. The budget papers of 1937-33 show clearly the incidence of the federal income tax. Those with taxable  incomes of £200 a year and under paid in 1926-27 only 2.2 per cent, of the income tax of Australia; the total payment was £20-7,000, or £1 12s. 7d. a head. During 1927-28, that amount, was reduced to £1 7s. 3d. a head. During 1928-29, it was further reduced to CI 6s! Rd. a head, and in 1929-30 to £1 fis. (3d. a head. I come now to the year 1930-31 and those which followed, those unhappy years when the so-called heroic action was taken by the Scullin Government. I know of only one heroic action which that Government took, and that was to ask for a. dissolution of the House of Representatives and go before the electors in 1931. It met then at their hands an unhappy fate, which showed conclusively that it was not on sound lines. During the time the Scullin 
Government was in office, the levy on those poor people, about whom the Leader of the Opposition is so much concerned, rose to £2 10s. lid. a head and then to £2 14s. 4d. a head. In 1932-33 it dropped to £1 12s. 3d., but that was the year in which the Lyons Government brought in its first budget. During the unhappy rule of the so-called heroic Scullin Government, the charges on that class went up to £2 14s. 4d. a head, as against about half of that amount in the preceding five or six years. During the financial year ended the 30th June, 1936, the total amount of income tax paid by neon1with taxable incomes of £200 a year and under was £209,21.1, paid by 162,295 people, and representing 2.6 per cent, of the total income tax collected by the Commonwealth Treasurer, the amount for each taxpayer being only £1 5s.- 9d. Now turn to the other end of the scale. There we find that persons with incomes exceeding £1,000 paid 4S.1 per cent, of the total income tax, and companies contributed 36'. 9 per cent., so that, altogether, about 85 per cent, of the taxation came from the wealthier classes. What are they paying for in the long run? They are  paying  for the defence of the country, and they are paying the charges on the capitalized loans. They pay, through income tax, much more largely than does any other class of the community for Australia's defence. Yet the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  sees some magic in charging the cost of defence to revenue, instead of borrowing the money for it. As a matter of fact, it is merely the difference between " tweedledum " and " tweedledee ". So far from there being any impropriety in borrowing from abroad, it. does not matter two pence, because the money has to go abroad in any event to supply the requirements of the Department of Defence. If we take the money from revenue, and send it abroad, it means that there is so much less money in this country. The Leader of the Opposition rebuked the Government for unpreparedness, but if there was one blow dealt to the defence of Australia it was dealt by the Scullin Government when, by the reduction and  transfer of the Royal Military College from Duntroon, it prevented the proper organization of staff and training of officers. That action set the defence policy of Australia back by at least fifteen years. 
It did not follow anybody. The defence of Australia should have been sacred. The Scullin Government removed the key of defence when it removed the training of the staff officers from Duntroon, and we are only now getting back to a normal condition in that regard. Are we following Great Britain ? That is probably one of the last things that honorable senators opposite would care to advocate, but in this matter it is our skins that are at stake, it is Australia that has to he defended, and Australia must cooperate for its own protection.. Even if Great Britain curtailed its defences with a view to bringing about world peace, we should never have left ourselves bare, without the nucleus of an army, without a staff to train the civilians who were willing to serve. That was the most drastic and fell blow that could have been directed against the defence of Australia, and it wasaimed by the Scullin Government. 
The Leader of the Opposition talked about easy money for public works, but his colleague,  Senator Brown,  proceeded to deal some hefty blows at the banking system. I should like to direct attention to what the Commission on Banking and Monetary Reform said about the trading banks and their conduct during the dread years of the depression. At page 218 of the report the following appeared :  - 
There is no justification for the view that the trading banks, in order to enlarge their profits, deliberately expanded credit to produce a boom and then contracted so as to produce a depression. In their efforts to contract advances, the trading banks in some cases caused hardship by forcing realization of assets, and by refusing credit to some creditworthy borrowers, but there was little alternat ive open to thebanks while their cash reserves remained low, and there is no evidence of a general policy of forcing the realization of assets. By the end of 1931, the liquid position of the banks had been restored. After the middle of 1932, they were granting advances more freely, and, after the middle of 1933. they adopted an active lending policy. During 1930, the trading banks, with the Commonwealth Bank, resisted the pressure on the exchange rate and rationed exchange: but in January, 1931, it was a trading bank which took the initiative in raising the rate to139. The trading banks participated in other measures taken during the depression. They voluntarily entered into and carried out the exchange mobilization agreement of 1930. In 1931, they reduced deposit and advance rates under the Premiers plan, and theymade further reductions up to 1934. 
That extract represents the considered judgment of men of all shades of opinion constituting the commission. God forbid that governments should ever control our monetary system. Honorable senators opposite would even ruin the Postal Department if they were left alone. They have in the railway systems the finest examples of nationalization and the effects that follow from it. These present a lamentable sight in this country's economic makeup, and I should have thought that my friends opposite would look for something new upon which to fashion their platform. This policy of nationalization is blown out, stale and worm-eaten. Such a policy, I am sure, will never appeal to the electors of this country again. We believe that, with the evenlybalanced banking system that we have, and a good central reserve bank, all this talk, which, after all, does not make a great appeal to the few millions of depositors in the savings banks, will command very little respect from the general community. 
The honorable senator has heard already that two of its recommendations have been accepted, one of which, the establishment of a small mortgage bank, he rather derided. He seems to think, in his large way, that it is a trivial thing. He also forgets another small paragraph in the report, which may mean a good deal to a large section of the Public Service, who have been labouring under considerable difficulties in a department with which I have the honour to be associated. The honorable senator twitted Ministers with holding directorates in various companies. If the people desire professional politicians to represent them in ministerial life, if they want men unacquainted with the methods of commerce, who know nothing about world affairs, to hold positions as Ministers, then let them legislate to exclude all others, and they will see where the country will very quickly go. 

 Senator Brand and  Senator E.  B. Johnston raised two very important matters, which I shall bring under the notice of the appropriate Ministers. 'However, I ask  Senator Brand  to bear in mind that, since the decision in the  James  case - I am not now speaking with any authority on the matter - judgments have been given by the High Court which may enable the various States themselves to exercise much greater legislative power with regard to primary and other products than most of the legal fraternity ever thought possible. Whilst the decision of the Privy Council in the  James  case limited the powers which this Parliament was thought to have, these more recent decisions indicate that there is much larger power latent in the States than we previously thought to be the case. I commendthat view to the honorable senator.The representations in respect of cannedfruits will be brought to the notice of the appropriate Minister. One cannot make omelettes without breaking eggs, and, if we are to adopt this wider policy in order to bring about a greater degree of world appeasement, which must necessitate mutual concessions, we must make sacrifices in the interests of the greater good of our whole civilization. Honorable senators may rest assured, however, that the Government will endeavour to protect all our industries, both primary and secondary, in every possible way, subject to that one reservation which I have made, namely, that, if it becomes vitally necessary, we must, as public men, be prepared to consider some sacrifice in order to ensure the future of our white civilization. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
. -I move - 
That the billbe now read a second time. 
This measure provides for the appropriation of revenue for the ordinary services of the various departments for the current financial year. The expenditure proposals of the Government have already been dealt with in the budget debate, and it is not proposed to deal with the various items in detail. Any explanations that may be desired by honorable senators will be furnished during the course of the debate on the second reading, or at the committee stage. 
For the first four months of this financial year the ordinary transactions of the Consolidated Revenue Fund were - Receipts, £26,430,000; expenditure, £26,130,000; excess of receipts over expenditure, £300,000. This excess of receipts cannot be regarded as indicative of the surplus to be expected at the end of the financial year for the following reasons :  - 
The Government proposes to legislate in three different directions in such a way as to increase the expenditure for the financial year. 
The expenditure in the early months of the year is lighter, comparedwiththat at the later stages. 
The three new proposals are in respect of the liberalization of the maternity allowance, further appropriation for special work to assist the unemployed at Christmas time, and the restoration of war pensions to certain widows and children. A measure covering the restoration of war pensions has already been passed by the Senate. These amounts will make necessary appropriations amounting to about £250,000, in addition to the expenditure contemplated in the budget. Increased benefits in respect of maternity allowances will involve a further expenditure of about £50,000, whilst the cost of war pensions for the half-year will be increased by an amount approximating £90,000. 
This bill provides for an appropriation of  £13,415,020  for the services of the year  1937-38,  to which should be added the amounts already granted under Supply Acts Nos. l and  15  of  1937,  namely,  £5,776,890  and  £8,323,000  respectively, making the total amount  £27,514,910,  which is the estimated expenditure from annualappropriations for ordinary services for the year  1937-38,  as set out in detail in the second schedule of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses  1  and  2  agreed to; 
Clause  3  postponed. 
First schedule agreed to. 
Second schedule. 
 I should like to know whether the Minister can give us any enlightenment in respect of the accommodation for honorable senators in Parliament House. He is fully aware of the difficulties confronting members of the House of Representatives and honorable senators in this respect. I wish to know whether, as  Senator Sir George  Pearce suggested in a question this afternoon, honorable senators will be consulted before any rearrangement of the present accommodation is made. 
The disposal of accommodation in Parliament House is controlled by the  President  and  Mr. Speaker,  but I trust that the representations of leaders of the various parties will bear fruit before the close of this session. 
 I draw the attention of the Minister to the poor furnishings provided in federal members' rooms in Perth. Seeing that ten or eleven parliamentarians have to use these rooms and comfortable accommodation is provided for only five, more attention should be given to this matter. I understand that senators and honorable members from South Australia also have complaints to make in this respect. 
At present the accommodation in Adelaide is very meagre indeed, but the Premier of South Australia has indicated to the Prime Minister, that so soon as the extensions to the State Parliament House in Adelaide are completed, accommodation completely satisfactory to honorable senators and members of the House of Representatives will be provided.I am not personally acquainted with the conditions existing in this respect in Perth, but if honorable senators from that State desire improved accommodation,I  shall certainly place their representations before the appropriate Minister. 
 With regard to this matter, I should be wanting in my duty if I did not express my appreciation of the great improvement made in the accommodation for federal parliamentarians in Brisbane. For a very long time, I repeatedly complained of the poor accommodation provided previously. The new accommodation leaves nothing to be desired. 
.  - I ask the Minister whether any investigation has been held or is likely to be held into the possibility of providing facilities for air travel by any parliamentarian who wishes to use that means of conveyance. Air travel is becoming general, and as, obviously, this means of transport would enable honorable senators to avoid considerable waste of time in travelling I believe that a number of honorable senators would prefer to travel by air rather than by the railways. The Government pays a very big subsidy to the railways in respect of the conveyance of parliamentarians, and a portion of that subsidy, I suggest might be used to enable members to travel by air. 
.  - Each railway pass for members of Parliament involves an annual expenditure of  £150.  The difficulty in regard to  Senator Leck  ie's suggestion would be that the Government would have to continue to contribute that money in respect of railway travel, and so, any cost in respect of air travel for members of Parliament would be additional. I agree with the honorable senator that air travel would avoid much waste of time, and I shall bring his suggestion under the notice of the Minister for the Interior in order to see if some relief in this respect cannot be given, particularly to those members of Parliament who are obliged to travel long distances. 
In respect of the " books, maps, plates, documents, book-binding and insurance " for the Parliamentary Library, I ask whether the Parliamentary Librarian is empowered to purchase a banned book and to place it on the library shelves for the use of members of Parliament, or are banned books entirely beyond even his reach? 
I do not think that even the Parliamentary Librarian could buy banned books; in any case all purchases are controlled by the Library Committee. 
.- Will the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  state whether railway departments impose a charge for transporting the luggage of members of Parliament who elect to travel by air at their own expense? 
I support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  concerning the alterations made to the federal members' rooms in Brisbane. The accommodation now provided is adequate and the service efficient. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Is the £2,400 provided for the travelling expenses of Ministers to cover travelling expenses within the Commonwealth ? 
On numerous occasions I have brought under the notice of the Government unsatisfactory reports concerning the administration of Australia House, London. A paragraph in a recent issue of the  Sunday Express  read - 
If a Briton goes to Australia House to make inquiries about migration,he is told that there is no literature on the subject available, and that there is no officer who can give the information desired. 
What amount is provided for advertising Australia's products in London? 
When in London this year I visited Australia House a number of times, and although I had not had occasion to complain previously, I found the organization improved this time. When there was some criticism in the Senate concerning the administration of Australia House a year or two ago, I said that I had always received courteous attention, and that the officers there had been helpful. That may be due to some extent to the fact that we have an exceedingly capable High Commissioner, but, so far as  I  have been able to judge, the officials generally are courteous and efficient. Many persons visit Australia House with the object of getting something for nothing, and when they are unsuccessful make disparaging remarks concerning the staff. Although South Australia has a capable representative in London, I always go first to Australia House. Disparaging comments are made from time to time concerning Australia House, but, generally speaking, I think they are groundless. During my recent visit to London, I saw films showing how Australia's primary products are being brought under the notice of the Britishpublic. These gave one a good idea of the detailed manner in which publicity work is being carried on. 
.As provision is made under this vote to meet the cost of Australia's CommissionerGeneral in the United States of America, perhaps the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  can give the committee some information concerning the proposed trade negotiations between Great Britain and the United States of America, which may affect Australia, and also in relation to the renewal of the Ottawa agreement. 1 do not think it is suggested that our trade negotiations with the United States of America are to be carried out by our representative in that country, whose salary is £976 a year. Will honorable senators have an opportunity to debate the Government's policy in connexion with our future trade with the United States of America and in respect of the Ottawa agreement? 
This vote is to provide for the representation Australia has had in the United States of America for some time, and does not, of course, include the cost of any negotiations into which we may enter with that country. I shall endeavour to provide honorable senators with an opportunity to discuss our trade relations with the United States of America and also the proposed revision of the Ottawa agreement, either before Parliament rises for the Christmas vacation, or before the termination of the session next year. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

.- I should like the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  to inform me as to the position with regard to the fisheries research vessel, the construction of which was authorized some time ago. 
The vessel is approaching completion. We have reached the stage of deciding on a name for it. My successor in control of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research will, no doubt, officiate at the launching ceremony at an early date. Construction was delayed for some time owing to the difficulty of securing the necessary materials. 
The honorable senator's question is somewhat outside the scope of the item, but I shall endeavour to obtain from the Minister for Commerce, before the Senate rises for the Christmas adjournment, a statement outlining the position. If it is not possible to do this, the information will be supplied immediately Parliament resumes in the New Year. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of External Affairs. 

 Proposed vote, £14,700. 
I shall be obliged if the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  will give some indication of future government policy with regard to the Department of External Affairs. I was rather surprised to-day to hear the honorable gentleman say that a question relating to the Commissioner-General in the United States of America was not relevant, because in the. items of this bill is bound up the whole of the personnel  end  salaries of the External Affairs Department. A few years ago several senators, myself included, objected that the External Affairs Department was too small; instead of being a department, it was, in fact actually a branch of the Prime Minister's Department. All that is now changed. The department, in a fairly short time has done excellent work, credit for which must, I think, be given mainly to the former Minister for External Affairs  (Sir George Pearce),  as well as to the head of the department and its senior officers. The point I raise is that, in the present state of world affairs, and of the League of Nations, the department should be expanded much more rapidly than it has done hitherto. The wise direction of Australian external affairs depends today more than ever upon the employment of competent and well-trained officers. I am not suggesting that we should follow the example of certain other dominions which have appointed ambassadors to different countries. That is not the best line of approach to our problems. I think the policy that was developed by the former Minister for External Affairs of appointing, as in the case of the United States of America, counsellors to the British Embassies is the wisest one. 
The appointment of ambassadors would, i consider, lead to the creation of difficulties, as well as greatly increased expenditure - and, in all probability we should be appointing men without furnishing them with the facilities and information necessary for the satisfactory discharge of ambassadorial duties. The appointment of counsellors to British Embassies seems to me definitely to be the right way to proceed. We have one such counsellor in Washington. I should like to see similar appointments made to other British Embassies. First we should require personnel of the External Affairs Department to be efficiently trained. I feel sure that the former Minister for External Affairs is in agreement with me on this matter. 
I, therefore, put it to the Minister that it would be advantageous if he could give to the committee some indication of the lines along which the expansion of this department will proceed. It is responsible for -work as vital to the welfare of this country as any, except perhaps the Department of Defence, but, as at present constituted, it is hopelessly inadequate to make contact with the rest of the world. I do not wish to press the new Ministry in connexion with this matter, but I think Ministers should realize not only the advisability and inevitability of expanding this department much more rapidly in the future than it has been expanded during the last few years. 
I can assure  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that the Government is alive to the necessity for the expansion of the External Affairs Department. As he knows, the right honorable gentleman who preceded me as Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has from time to time given us reasons for the expansion of the External Affairs Department in various directions. In the short time at its disposal this morning Cabinet had this subject under consideration, and when the Minister for External Affairs has made up his mind regarding certain matters, a statement will be made to the Senate . on his behalf. The appointment of a counsellor to the British Embassy at Washington is an indication of the Government'spolicy with respect to other embassies,, but it seems to me that we had better wait until the Minister has reviewed thewhole position before making a statement of the Government's intentionsMinisters are fully seized of the importance of having the department competently staffed, and also of the necessity for having Australia . represented invarious countries. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Westtern Australia) [8.11].  -  I support the remarks of  Senator Duncan-Hughes  asto the advisability of strengthening and expanding the Department of External Affairs but this cannot he done rapidly because the handling of diplomatic matters requires careful training, and facilities for experience in the Commonwealth are extremely limited. This small department has expanded rapidly, and is doing; very important work. Officers are sent to London to be attached to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for training and experience.  Major Officer,  our counsellor at the Washington' Embassy, was trained in this way, and at the present time two other officers are gaining experience in the British Foreign Office. When I was administering the department, the intention of the Government was that these officers when sufficiently trained should be appointed counsellors to British embassies and that two other officers should be transferred from Australia to London for experience. It was felt that in this way it would be possible to establish a staff possessing high qualifications for the extremely important positions in the different British embassies. I fully endorse all that has been said as to the value of the department and the need for training a competent staff; but I emphasize that it is better to proceed slowly in order to get men who are thoroughly trained rather than to have a rapid expansion of a staff of imperfectly trained officers. I feel sure that the present Government will find that this is the wisest procedure. 
 We have had an interesting statement from the former Minister for External Affairs  (Senator Pearce)  with regard to the training of officers of the 
Department of External Affairs for appointments to British embassies abroad. I again call the attention of the Government to a request, which, I think, emanated from Canberra some time ago, that there should be established at the Canberra University College a Chair of International Studies. I hope that the Government will keep this request in mind, because I feel sure it would provide the material referred to by  Senator Pearce  from which the Department of External Affairs might recruit its officers. As has been emphasized in this discussion, these officers must be thoroughly trained. I understand that representations have been made to the Prime Minister on this subject during the last twelve months, but I do not know whether anything has been done to comply with the request. I urge the Government to give to it serious consideration. 
.- I agree with what other honorable senators have said as to the importance of the work of the Department of External Affairs, but I should like to have a clear statement from the Ministry concerning its functions. Is it intended that it shall deal with such matters as trade treaties which will then be sent on to some other Minister? Is that its job, and is that the reason why the department should be expanded? I understand that there is a likelihood of a trade agreement between Great Britain, the United States of America and Australia, and I should like to know whether the Minister for External Affairs is to take charge of the negotiations and be Australia's delegate to any conference which may take place. 
I desire to know whether the Minister for External Affairs is the Minister to carry out treaty negotiations. If that be the case, he should be the Minister to go abroad. 
What is his job, if it be not to make treaties? 
If the Department of External Affairs is to do more than consider matters of courtesy as between nations, it should be the duty of its Minister to take charge of treaty negotiations. I am interested in the possibility of a trade treaty with the United States of America, and I desire to know which Minister will be in charge of the negotiations. 
.- I am pleased that this discussion has taken place, particularly in view of the present state of world affairs. The Department of External Affairs must necessarily grow; but, even in its present state, it is capable of doing much good. Any one who follows closely the trend of world affairs must realize the need for such a department. A little while ago I had the privilege of reading  in extenso  a speech delivered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in London. In reading it, I was impressed by his earnest desire that the people of the world should realize how essential it is that the spirit of economic nationalism which has grown since the Great War should be supplanted by a spirit of economic co-operation. Work along those lines would probably result in more permanent good than anything that might be done along the lines that have been adopted in the past, with each country trying to gain something for itself, irrespective of the effect of its action on other nations. Other peoples, like ourselves, have pride of race, and destinies to fulfil. I deprecate provocative utterances regarding other peoples. The Department of External Affairs has an important mission in co-operating with other parts of the Empire in an endeavour to cement lasting friendships with other nations. Only by acting along those lines can. the world hope to make progress. Moreover, unless something practical in that direction is done soon, it is difficult to say what will happen. We in Australia are far removed from the turmoil of Europe, and, consequently, are apt to forget that we have a part to play in securing world peace. Our part here, as public men, is to endeavour to inculcate in the people of Australia a spirit of goodwill towards the people of other nations, instead of a spirit of enmity, jealousy and boycott. One's blood boils when one hears unnecessarily provocative utterances regarding other nations. Every country has its own domestic problems, many of which are more difficult than those which face us. I welcome particularly the speeches of Senators Duncan-Hughes and Pearce and I hope the outcome of the discussion will be a greater interest in the work of this important department. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [8.21]. -The remarks of  Senator Leckie  seem to arise from a misconception of the functions of the Department of External Affairs in regard to treaty making. Although that department is ultimately responsible for the promulgation and signing of treaties, that does not mean that it is the department principally concerned with the threshing out of the. details of a trade treaty. It is a mistake to think that Australia is a party only to trade treaties. A recent issue of the  Current Notes,  issued by the Department of External Affairs, gave the number of treaties to which Australia is a party as about 200, of which . 130 are multi-lateral treaties covering a multiplicity of subjects. The officers of the Department of External Affairs have been specially trained in respect of the obligations of Australia arising out of those treaties. As I mentioned while  Senator Leckie  was speaking, there is an inter-departmental committee, consisting of officers of the Departments of Trade and Customs, Commerce and External Affairs, which confer in regard to trade treaties with other nations. The officers of the last-mentioned department, are not required to have special knowledge of trade matters, but they are required to have a knowledge of the treaties that affect trade. For instance, every trade treaty must have regard to what is known as the mostfavourednation treatment. Recently, Australia concluded a treaty with Czechoslovakia. Officers of the Department of Trade and Customs played the principal part in the detailed discussions, but when the time came for the drafting of the treaty, officers of the Departments of External Affairs and of the AttorneyGeneral were consulted for the reason that matters of international law, and the effect of the proposed treaty on existing treaties with other countries had to be considered. A concession given to one country may mean, as a matter of course, because of international obligations, that a similar concession must be given to other countries. The officers of the Department of External Affairs are there to advise their colleagues in the other departments mentioned in relation to such matters. Their knowledge may vitally affect the negotiations, because whilst a concession to one country would do no harm, we have to consider carefully what would be the effects of its automatic extension to many other countries, some of them competitive with Australia. The work of the External Affairs Department is largely of an advisory nature in relation to trade treaties. It does not necessarily follow that, because the department plays an important part in negotiating treaties, the Minister for External Affairs is the best Minister to confer with other nations. It is withinthe province of the Government to select the Minister it thinks most suited to carry out the particular negotiations. It is essential that the Commonwealth shall have a department staffed with officers competent to advise other departments as to their obligations under the more than 200 treaties to which Australia is a party. 
.- I am thankful to  Senator Pearce  for the information that he has given, and shall be glad if the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  will supplement what he has said by giving the other information that I sought. If there are to be negotiations with the United States of America for a trade treaty, which Minister will be in charge of them ? 
I cannot give to  Senator Leckie  the information that he seeks, because I do not know who will be in charge of any negotiations which may be entered into with the United States of America for a trade treaty. The position has been so clearly stated by the former Minister for External Affairs  (Senator Pearce)  that there is no need for me to add anything to what he has said. Negotiations for a trade treaty with the United States of America are still in the initial stages. 

 Senator Abbott advocated the establishment of a chair of international studies in connexion with the Canberra University College. The sum of £4,400 is provided as a grant-in-aid to the Canberra University College, and that sum, [ understand, covers in part the matter that the honorable senator mentioned. It might be well if I were to explain how the Department of External Affairs is associated with the making of treaties. Following upon the resignation of the Minister directing negotiations for trade treaties  (Sir Henry Gullett),  the Government decided that the Minister for External Affairs should be the Minister to sign trade treaties on behalf ofthe Commonwealth. The actual negotiations are conducted by the Minister for Trade and Customs, with the assistance of officers of his department. As was mentioned by  Senator Pearce,  there is an inter-departmental committee consisting of one representative each of the Departments of Trade and Customs, Commerce and External Affairs. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote. - The Treasury. £825,000- agreed to. 
Attorney-General's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £202,500. 
.- Can the Minister representing the Attorney-General say whether there is any likelihood of an additional arbitration judge being appointed ? There have been complaints of delay in arbitration proceedings, and I understand that the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  has under consideration the appointment of another judge.From my own experience, I can say that such an appointment is necessary. It is most essential to relieve both employers and employees who go to the Arbitration Court of the fear that they cannot get immediate decisions. A good deal of dissatisfaction has been expressed in that regard, and I shall be glad if the Minister will indicate whether the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  is considering the appointment of a new judge, and when it is likely to be made. 
The appointment of an additional Arbitration Court judge has been the subject of consideration by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Menzies)  for some time. Deputations have waited upon him representing, I believe, both sides in industry, to protest against the slow progress of the business of the court. He found that these complaints were well founded, and that delays which could not be justified were occurring. Knowing this, he has in hand at the present moment, under the authority of the Cabinet, the matter of appointing an extra judge. The position is not easy to fill, having regard to the feelings that arise from time to time in arbitration matters. He is, therefore, making full inquiries, and will, I understand, shortly be in a position to make a recommendation. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of the Interior. 

 Proposed vote, £499,200. 
Provision is made of £8,000 for the forestry branch, which for some time seemed to be somewhat under a cloud. Last year several honorable senators expressed the hope that the cloud was gradually passing away, and that the branch would eventually be as useful to the community as had been anticipated. Can the Minister state what progress is being made and whether the prospects are brighter than they were a year ago? 
.- I draw attention to the vote for the electoral branch. I understand that the Government is setting up a committee to consider the method of electing members of the Senate. Can the Minister state when such a committee is likely to be appointed and what will be the extent of its powers? There are differences with regard to the interpretation of the Electoral Act, under which the last elections were held. It seems to me that the act means that, if the intention of the elector is clear, his vote should be valid, but in many cases in 
Victoria the ballot-papers of those who voted for nine candidates and forgot the tenth were declared informal. To me, as a layman, such an interpretation is wrong.I understand that there were similar occurrences in several of the States, and an authoritative decision is called for. Would such a committee take that matter into consideration? Who interprets the Electoral Act? 
The honorable senator is out of order. The division to which he has directed attention deals only with salaries, payments in the nature of salary, and general expenses. It cannot be made to cover a proposed committee of inquiry such as that to which the honorable senator has referred. 
I direct your attention,  Mr. Chairman,  to the fact that on page 33 of the bill a certain amount is provided for the electoral branch. Cannot we discuss such a committee in that connexion? 
The electoral branch appears on page 35, and its items deal with salaries, payments, and so on. A. general discussion with regard to a committee that may be set up at some time to deal with the electoral law wouldbe quite out of order at this stage. 
The honorable senator is out of order. He desires to discuss the administration of the electoral law. The proposed vote before the committee does not cover matters of that kind. 
The vote before the committee has nothing to do with the Electoral Act. 
.- I direct attention to Division No. 43. Governor-General's establishments, and would like the Minister to state for how many more years the Commonwealth has to pay £5,280 per annum to the Government of Victoria for the lease of the building in Melbourne previously occupied by His Excellency. The Commonwealth has not had the use of that establishment for some years. 
I should like to know what progress, if any, is being made by the Forestry branch, to which  Senator Payne  has referred. Reports that have come to hand from time to time have not been encouraging, and scarcely justify its continuance. The expenditure for this year is £8,000, yet the last report showed that there was only one cadet in the establishment. There is no reason why the branch should not be developed and made most useful, working in the closest cooperation with the State forestry departments. I do not know whether Commonwealth work is duplicating that of the States, or whether the Commonwealth forestry branch is attending only to the more scientific side and passing on to the States the information so gained. If administered along those lines the Commonwealth branch can be a very useful, but if it is to be a water-tight compartment, and each State also is to run its own show in its own way,it is not fulfilling its original purpose. The branch is of sufficient importance for honorable senators to be made fully aware from time to time of what is being done. The time is opportune for the Minister in charge of it to make a full statement as to its progress, if not to-day, then as early as possible. If the branch is not making progress, we should be told so in order that methods may he devised to enable it to fulfil its real purpose, particularly in view of the big capital expenditure involved. 
I am not yet in a position to make the comprehensive statement asked for by  Senator Payne  and  Senator 
Herbert Hays with regard to the forestry school at Canberra. The rumour that the school is to be closed is not correct. It is to be continued and extended, and more extensive research work is to be done. The planting of the trees will continue, and that work also will be extended. If honorable senators will accept that statement for the present, I shall at a later date be in. a position to make a more comprehensive announcement. 
I cannot answer that question. 
 I think one is the number.  Senator Grant  raised tho subject of the lease of the Governor-General's residence in Victoria. That lease will expire on the 31st December, 1938. The payment to be made then will be the final one in respect of that residence. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of Defence. 

 Proposed vote £5,992,000. 
, - The defence policy of the Government figured prominently during the recent election campaign and some of the phases of the criticism levelled against it were most unseemly, and some of the language entirely unwarranted. I have no desire at this stage to traverse that ground, but intend to say something in respect of the system of national defence so strongly advocated by the Opposition. At the outset it may be well to point out that the defence plan of a country is a dangerous thing with which to meddle. To obtain a correct vision of the actual position, a knowledge of history, geography, national resources, racial characteristics and international tendencies, among other things, is essential. That is the starting point, but I am afraid that many who talk about the subject cannot see beyond the man with the gun and take no stock of hia real uses and relative value. The scheme put forward by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  over-estimates our capacity to defend ourselves and disregards the probable actions of a possible aggressor. The only practical scheme for the defence of Australia must form part of that designed in respect of the defence of the Empire as a whole. 
The honorable senator must connect his remarks with some particular item in the schedule. He is now making a. speech which he should have made on the first, or second, reading of the bill. 
I would like to hear something from the Government in regard to aviation because so far, in this chamber at any rate, we have had extraordinary little in the way of detail from it this year as to what is being done with regard to aviation generally, since the whole position was radically altered as the result of the defeat of the referendum proposals; that defeat, as regards this particular matter, I deplore as much as anybody else. A. question was asked on this subject last week, but it was not answered in detail; and at this stage we might fairly expect to know to what extent the various States have come into line in respect of aviation regulations. The control of aviation in Australia is really a central matter. We want to know whether all the States have agreed to give to the Commonwealth power to act on their behalf, and, if so, whether or not such power has been given on identical terms. Parliament should be fully informed on these matters. Such information may be known to people outside of Parliament, but, so far as  1  am aware, no statement has been made in this chamber this year as to what the Government has done to surmount the position created by the rejection of the aviation proposals at the referendum early this year. We were given to understand that that rejection would mean a complete break-down, not only of marketing, but also of aviation ; yet, as T understand the matter, the control of aviation has not broken down at all. The Commonwealth, I understand, has found is perfectly easy to make an agreement with the various States for the adoption of uniform regulations throughout Australia. I should like to have ministerial confirmation of that. 
I wish to speak in detail on only one phase of aviation. I listened with much interest to what  Senator McBride  had to say on aviation generally when he was moving the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech, but one point upon which he did not touch was to what extent, if at all, the Government has laid it down, in respect of commercial aviation, that there should be two pilots to every aeroplane. This is a matter which exercised the mind of the public; if it did not, it should. It is perfectly obvious to anybody that a pilot may suddenly be stricken by illness. I was told the other day by a man who flew, I fancy, from Broken Hill to Port Pirie, that the heat was so intense And the sun so glaring that the pilot spent a good deal of time in trying to put newspapers over his head in order to shield himself from the rays of the sun. That is only one instance of what might happen on an aeroplane journey. A pilot may also be taken suddenly ill by poisoning developing rapidly. In any case it is' perfectly obvious that a pilot, though he be among the best in the world, may suddenly be stricken by illness, with the result that the lives of all his passengers may be lost. I suggest that all commercial planes should be manned by a pilot and a reserve pilot. When it is a case of flying, say, from Adelaide to Melbourne, one pilot was apparently thought sufficient, but from Melbourne to Sydney planes carry one pilot, and a signalling pilot who, presumably, would he able to take over the controls in a case of emergency. I submit that it should be laid down as a sine  qua non  in the case of commercial flying, that planes should carry two pilots. It is not the proper thing to rely upon the state of health of one pilot when he may have from six to twelve or fourteen passengers committed to his charge and when, through no fault of his own, his plane may crash. If the Commonwealth Government is making arrangements with the States, this is a point which should be taken into consideration. I am not now making any complaint arising out of my own personal experience. I have flown from Adelaide to Melbourne in aplane manned by one pilot, but I have also had the experience of travelling from Adelaide to Melbourne in a plane which, as it happened, carried two pilots, whilst I was the only passenger for part of the way. My luck, apparently, was good in this respect, but I emphasize that this relatively new method of transport should, as far as it, is within our power to do so, be made completelysafe. The practice of one pilot flying a plane with everything depending upon him does not make for the greatest measure of safety. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [8.55]. - I emphasize the importance of preserving the existing subsidized service from Darwin to Perth when the new Empire airways service is inaugurated. The present service is very valuable to Western Australia. It not only delivers the overseas mail to Perth more quickly, but it is also of great value to the north-west portion of the State. I am aware that in some quarters it is suggested that in the new service the overseas mails should be taken to Sydney and forwarded from Sydney to Perth. I cannot see why that should be necessary. At the present time mails are brought from overseas by steamer for the various capitals in separate bags, and I cannot see why a similar system could not be operated in connexion with overseas air mail, or why the mail bags for Western Australia could not be landed at Darwin from the seaplane and then flown from Darwin direct to Perth. It is suggested that this would require a special staff of sorters but, surely, that would not be so. If the mails for the various capital cities were in separate bags, there would be no need for sorting at Darwin. 
.- The proposal of  Senator Duncan-Hughes  for the provision of a second pilot could not be carried out in respect of all commercial planes; that would be something practically unknown in other parts of the world. I have often travelled in planes which carried only one pilot and two passengers. Admittedly, it would be safer to have two pilots and, between capital cities, with large passenger planes, it would be necessary to do so. But, in some areas where only single-engine planes carry on a service, and can expect no more than one or two passengers, the provision of a second pilot could hardly be insisted upon. It may be more dangerous to have only one pilot, but we might just as reasonably suggest that the driver of a passenger motor car might be taken suddenly ill and the lives of his passengers thereby endangered. There is always an element of danger in travel ;  Ave  cannot eliminate it. I agree with  Senator Duncan-Hughes'  suggestion to the extent that planes carrying more than a specified number of passengers should be obliged to' carry a second pilot. 
 I may inform  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that negotiations have been proceeding between the Commonwealth and Slate Governments with the object of adopting uniform regulations to control air navigation. At a recent referendum the people decided against granting to the Commonwealth power to control aviation, but the fact that the various companies have been observing the spirit of the federal regulations suggests that uniform control is considered desirable. 
At the Conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers held in Melbourne in April of this year, it was agreed unanimously that there should be uniform rules in relation to the airworthiness of aircraft, the licensing and competence of pilots, the rules relating to air traffic, and the regulation of aerodromes. As the Commonwealth Air Navigation Regulations were limited in their application on account of constitutional restrictions and did not apply to intra-state air navigation. it was agreed that each State should submit to its Parliament a bill to provide for the extension of the Commonwealth Air Navigation Regulations in force from time to time to air navigation and aircraft within the jurisdiction of the State. At a further conference the form of the Air Navigation Bill to be introduced in the State Parliaments was agreed to. It is understood that this enabling legislation has been introduced in many, if not all, of the State Parliaments. South Australia, Queensland and Victoria have, in fact, passed . this bill, which now awaits proclamation. 
The Commonwealth Air Navigation Regulations provide for the airworthiness of aircraft, the competency of personnel and the licensing of aerodromes. Apart from these requirements, which apply to all aircraft to which the regulations apply, a further regulation is included providing that a regular air service carrying passengers cannot be operated unless the operator has been issued with an " airline " licence for the particular service. The intention of this is that an " airline " licence will be issued only if the Civil Aviation Board is satisfied that all the detailed arrangements for the operation of the service and every aspect bearing upon safety are satisfactorily covered to ensure the safety of the aircraft and passengers. These require.ments which are recorded in documentary form, cover the type of aircraft to be used, the qualifications of the operating crew and ground staff, the route to be used, and the use to be made of aids to air navigation, such as meteorology and radio. 
In the limited time available since the Commonwealth regulations came into force, it has not been possible to complete the documentary records covering the requirements and practices for the many regular services operating in Australia, but sound progress has been made, and, in the meantime, the Civil Aviation Board is maintaining a close watch on the operation of all airlines. 
I shall direct the attention of the Minister for Defence  ,(Mr. Thorby)  to suggestions made by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  and  Senator Grant  that passengercarrying planes should have two pilots. I understand, that most planes used in conducting important passenger services already carry two qualified pilots. In reply to the point raised by  Senator Sir George  Pearce, I may say that a definite policy in regard to the handling of air mails will not be adopted until the new flying boat service between England and Australia comes into operation. At the moment the Government cannot say what existing services will be retained or what additional services will be established. The Government is fully aware of the benefit of the service between Darwin and Western Australia and also of the advantage of the air mail service in portions of Queensland provided by the planes which carry mails between Brisbane and Darwin on the Singapore route. The representations made by  Senator Sir George  Pearce in respect of Western Australia will be brought under the notice of the Government. 
.- -Section 3 25 of the Defence Act which is contained in Part XII of that act prohibits the use of alcoholic liquors in military camps. As that part of the act has been suspended, I should like to know if it is permissible for trainees in camps to be in possession of alcoholic liquors. I also take  this  opportunity to ask whether the Commonwealth is making proper use of its reserve man power. We have only a limited peace training establishment and a great many men are anxious to do something to fit themselves for duty should their services be required. The following letter indicates the commendable spirit that is abroad :  - 
The writer suggests that there are a number of reasonably young men in the back country of Western Australia who are desirous of offering their services to their country immediately the time arrives when such services are required. Although these men reside many hundreds of miles from training centres, they would make it their business to present themselves at a training centre for a fortnight in each year with the object of fitting themselves to pass through an Officers Training College the more quickly in the event of war. With all the respect due from a civilian to the trained military opinion, the writer submits that the cultivation of this suggestion might be desirable because, in the event of sudden mobilization, the men referred to, being in managerial positions, would be of assistance in - 
Recruiting the right type of light horseman from their own and neighbouring stations. 
Supplying horses. 
And later leading the type of men they understand. 
I believe that in the Citizen Force units there is a shortage of instructors. To overcome this the services of a number of comparatively young men who served during the Great War could be utilized in some manner. They would, of course, have to go through a school of instruction in order to bring their knowledge up-to-date, but it has been suggested that corps of honorary instructors should be formed in localities where they reside. 
The use of gas masks has not, I believe, been considered sufficiently by the Government. In Western Australia at least there are in all large towns branches of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia which are very important units in the local community. The members of this organization know what gas attacks mean and what measures should be taken to minimize the risk in the event of an attack. Nothing has been done to utilize the manpower in this respect, and the question arises of whether the members of these branches of the League could not render a very useful service to the country. 
 I can assure  Senator Collett  that wet canteens are not allowed in militia camps. That restriction does not apply to permanent barracks. 
No. Provision is made in the Estimates to meet the  cost  of a limited number of gas masks for training purposes, and I am assured that the department is not unmindful of the need in this respect. 
Is the amount of £7,500 for  the  citizen air force to provide the cost of  a  nucleus force, or is it merely to cover  salaries? 
 During the last year or two I have referred in the 
Senate to the supply of gas masks, and have found it difficult to obtain a satisfactory answer. Have gas masks been forwarded to South Australia and Western Australia, or have they beep distributed only in the eastern States? I have heard that committees are in the course of formation to control the use of gas masks, but I have not heard of the arrival of any masks in the States 1 have mentioned. 
 I can assure the honorable senator that the Government has not lost sight of the necessity to supply masks to all States. I understand that at the moment negotiations are proceeding between the Commonwealth and the States in the hope that the States will co-operate in adopting uniform regulations covering the use of such masks. I am unable to say what number of masks is available. The department considers the subject of great importance, and is making every effort to meet the requirements of all the States. 
.- All the States should be treated on the same basis. I have been informed that officials have been sent to give instruction in New South Wales in the use of gas .masks, but I have not heard of similar action being taken in respect of the other States. Those who live in Western Australia or South Australia are  a6  much entitled to be instructed in the use of masks as are those living in New South Wales or any other eastern State. I think that would be the general view of the Senate. It is not reasonable or proper that preference should be given to thickly populated portions of Australia, and the more sparsely populated parts neglected. Oan the Minister tell me whether any gas masks have been forwarded to South Australia or Western. Australia? 
.- I regret that I am unable to supply the information to the honorable gentleman, but I shall endeavour to get it, and let him know as soon as possible. 
 Can the Minister tell the committee whether at any time, to his knowledge, the Life Saving Association of Australia has offered the services of its members to the Commonwealth Government in the event of a gas attack on Australia during war? . 1 understand that the association did make this offer some time ago, and it is anxious to know if it has been accepted by the Government. 
 I am unable to say if such an offer has been made, but I am quite sure that in a national emergency such an excellent body as the Life Saving Association of Queensland would willingly place its organization at the disposal of the Government. I shall have inquiries made, and let the honorable senator know if such an offer has been received. 
.- Prior to the recent general elections, statements appeared in the newspapers to the effect that, in pursuance of its defence programme, the Government had decided to place experimental orders for the supply of about £100,000 worth of munitions. It was also stated that such an arrangement was made without consultation with responsible engineering firms which would have been in a position to advise the department, and there was the suggestion that, because of this lack of consultation, there was little likelihood of satisfactory tenders being received. It seems to me that if that was the course pursued by the Government it was entirely wrong. I am, of course, aware that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and his Labour friends believe that there should be no private manufacture of munitions; that all our military requirements should be produced at Lithgow, Maribyrnong, Footscray and other government establishments. There is, I understand, a somewhat similar feeling in the department. Every one should know that if tenders ure called without consultation with leading firms the prices submitted will probably be three times higher than would be justified. I therefore suggest to the Government, that before calling for tenders it should ' be in consultation with responsible engineering firms in order to ensure satisfactory offers. 
When the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Foll)  is appealing to the Government for asupply of gas masks for distribution throughout Australia he might remind ' the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Thorby)  that the executive of the Brisbane Ambulance Transport Brigade, of which I am a member, some time ago expressed its willingness to establish classes for the purpose of educating its officers in gas drill, but was unable to carry out that work, because no gas masks were available. 
. -I assure the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that the Government is gratified to know that the executive  of  the Brisbane Ambulance Transport Brigade is desirous of training its members to render efficient service in the event of a gas attack. I feel sure that the Government will welcome the assistance of all such bodies, and will do what is possible to provide the necessary facilities for training. As to the private manufacture of munitions, referred to by  Senator Leckie,  I think it is desirable that I should make a statement of government policy in this matter. 
Production is at present undertaken by government factories. ' The whole procedure and technique of manufacture is recorded, with a view to the process specifications being available for industry in  an  emergency. Modern warfare entails a. huge expenditure on munitions. To  prepare  for war Australia must have ei ther - 
factories which are organized to be brought into the scheme of production. 
The provision of large stocks of munitions would require the expenditure of vast financial resources. Large staffs would also he required for their maintenance, to prevent deterioration. Armaments also become obsolete with the introduction of new types. 
As was announced to Parliament by the Prime Minister on the 24th August,1937, it is the policy of the Government to develop, in peace, resources for the manufacture of munitions as well as the supply of raw material, in order to make the Commonwealth as self-supporting as possible in respect of armaments and munitions of war. The policy of the Government is to provide government factories for the manufacture of the types of essential munitions which have no counterpart in commercial industries, and to ensure that the development of the service is supplemented by a corresponding degree of progress in the local capacity for the production of munitions. 
Parallel with the development of government factories, the Government is fostering commercial industries, and thereby systematically adding to the country's resources of raw material, stores and manufacturing establishments. 
The functions of the Principal Supply Officers Committee are to prepare a statement of the requirements of the services in wartime, to examine these in relation to the stocks and productive resources of thecountry, and to prepare plans for mobilizing the resources of industry in an emergency. Experimental orders are being placed to test the capacity of industry in regard to our most urgent requirements of gun ammunition and air force bombs. The aim of these experimental orders is to locate potential capacity, and there is no prospect of any profiteering arising. On the contrary, the Chamber of Manufactures has specially represented that it is more concerned with the organization of industry than the receipt of actual orders. A further indication of the patriotic motives of industry is the provision by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited of a shell shop completely equipped. 
Can the Minister inform the committee of the position with regard to the Empire air mail scheme? It is about three years since the British Government submitted its proposals for an air mail service between the Mother Country and Australia, and I understand that the scheme will be in operation shortly. 
There are some points to be settled between the Commonwealth Government and Qantas Empire Airways before the scheme is  inaugurated. I understand that the points at issue will be dealt with by Cabinet next week. Advice has also been received from the Government of the United Kingdom concerning certain phases of the agreement. I can assure  Senator Brown  that the Government is as anxious as is anybody else to see the air mail service inaugurated at the earliest possible moment. 
I notice an item, "fees of universities and other establishments for courses and examination fees and contribution towards salary of teacher of Japanese language." Can the Minister inform me how many persons have been deemed to have qualified in the Japanese language since the inauguration of these classes ? 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of Trade andcustoms. 

 Proposedvote, £656,000. 
.- I should like some information relating To the general expenses in connexion with the film censorship. It seems to me that the Censorship Board is functioning in the interests of foreign film companies, and I am wondering if they are making any direct or indirect return to the Government for the services rendered by the film censorship, the purpose of which, it appears, is to ensure the screening of clean films to Australian audiences. On the face of it, this expenditure would seem to he unjustified unless the Government is getting something by way of return. 
I feel sure that if the film interests were consulted they would have no hesitation in saying that they pay many times over for the services rendered by the Film Censorship Hoard, and would point to the substantial revenue obtained from the duty on imported films. I shall bring the remarks of the honorable senator to the notice of the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White),  but I do not anticipate that he will agree with the suggestion that this particular industry should meet the expenditure incidental to the censor ship of films. So far as the total of £4,888 is concerned, I remind  Senator Leckie  that every film which enters this country must be examined from end to end. There are a Chief Film Censor and other officers whose salaries must be found, and there is an establishment to be maintained. It is generally agreed that the Film Censorship Board is doing good work. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Department of Health. 

 Proposed vote - £127,600 - agreed to. 
Department of Commerce. 

 Proposed vote, £452,000. 
.- The sum of £9,700 is set down under the heading " Publicity Films and Photographs". Can the Assistant Minister furnish the committee with information as to how this money is to be expended? [ take it that the department does not intend to set up in opposition to Hollywood, and that probably the amount will be expended on advertising. 
. -This item is to cover the cost of the Cinema and Photographic Branch, located in Melbourne. The sum of £8,420 is required to cover salaries and travelling expenses, provide stores and meet the cost of repairs, maintenance, &amp;c. New equipment, automatic processing machinery and a sensitometer will require a further £1,625. Other small items bring the total to £9,700. The Cinema Branch produces sound films of both 35 and 16 millimetres, lantern slides, photographs, &amp;c, depicting Australia's resources, the production and manufacture of various products, as well as scenic attractions, for publicity purposes. The branch must keep itself up-to-date in cinema technique. Provision has been made for the expenditure of £1,625 on modern equipment, and for an increased output to meet the demand. 
There is an increase of over £10,000 under the items " Salaries and allowances " in division No. 98. Can the Minister give the reason for that increase ? 
 The amount is necessary in order to meet the salaries and allowances of permanent veterinary officers, butter and cheese graders, and other inspectors of primary and other products submitted for export. The increase of five assistants in connexion with dairy exports is offset by a corresponding decrease of the number of Graders' Assistants. The remaining increase of £S,030 is due to the fact that a large number of permanent positions provided for in the previous year were occupied by temporary and exempt officers for the whole or a portion of the year, the positions being either not filled or occupied by permanent officers for a time. 
.- There is a sum 0f £810 set down for " payments to States for services of surveyors and others". Can the Assistant Minister indicate the nature of the services rendered by the States? 
 This item is provided in order to ensure, as far as possible, the safety of life at sea. The navigation section of the marine branch of the Department of Commerce is responsible for the survey of ships in order to ascertain their seaworthiness. In certain remote ports, such as Port Pirie, Port Kembla and Bunbury, the services of State officers are used. Provision is made under this item for re-imbursement to the States of the cost of such services rendered to the Commonwealth. 
.- The sum of £12,200 is set down for the upkeep of lighthouses, buoys and beacons. Last year £15,000 was provided, and £13,473 expended. Why is only £12,200 voted  for  this year? One would imagine that the expenditure on services of this nature would increase, rather than decrease. 
This item covers the cost of repair and maintenance of lights, light vessels, buoys, beacons, &amp;c.., and includes the cost of labour and material, as well as of workshop and minor repairs. Some reduction has been made possible by the transfer of a portion- of the work, such- as the repairing of cottages, buildings, jetties, &amp;c, to the Department of the Interior. 
Various sums are set down for the representation of the department in Canada, New Zealand, the East, and Egypt. Why is it that £5,000- is to be provided for representation in the East, and smaller sums, in each of the other places mentioned? 
.- The suan of £5,000 covers the cost of the Trade Commissioner's offices  at  Batavia, Tokio and Shanghai. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Miscellaneous Services. 

 Proposed vote, £1,147,000. 
 For research, demonstration work, and other expenditure in connexion with the apple and pear industry, the sum of £10,000 is provided. An additional £5,000 is set down as a grant to the Apple and Pear Council for publicity purposes. At a meeting of tlie Western Australian Fruit-growers Association a few weeks ago, questions were asked regarding this expenditure. There is no objection to money being devoted to such work, but members of the association desire to know how much, if any, of it is to be expended in Western Australia, whether any of the research and demonstration work will be undertaken in that State, and where  the  money is expended. _ 
I am not in a position to say off hand how much of this, money will be expended in Western Australia, or in any other State. I shall, however, ascertain particulars from the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  and will advise the honorable senator as early as possible. 
-  Under the heading, "Miscellaneous services ", provision is made for annual payments to widows of exmembers of this Parliament, and also, in one instance, for funeral expenses incurred on behalf of a deceased member. I do not object to these payments, but it seems to me that the time  ha3  arrived for  a fund to bo established, based on the contributions of members, in order that the necessity for such charitable payments may be obviated. Only last week, in the House of Representatives, a proposal to restore the allowances of members was made, and the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  promised to give to it early consideration. The time is opportune, therefore, to establish a fund to the credit of which the proposed, restoration could be paid ; the fund could be placed under the control of a committee, and from it payments of this nature could be made, thereby removing from governmental responsibility payments such as have been made from time to time. I ask the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  to bring this matter before Cabinet for its serious consideration. 
This subject was considered by the previous Government. A committee of private members, representative of all parties in the Parliament, submitted certain proposals, but nothing came of them. My own view is that this fund is something which members themselves might inaugurate; but, having regard to the remarks of the honorable senator, I shall bring the matter before the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  upon whom would devolve the duty of inaugurating a scheme should action along the lines suggested be taken. 
I was interested in the remarks of the Minister, but I suggest that this is not a matter for members themselves to deal with. The suggestion -to restore the allowances of members of Parliament, if agreed to, would make possible the establishment of a fund which, by the time that this Parliament comes to an end, would amount to approximately £17,000. It should be quite within the range of possibility, by adopting  Senator Dein's  suggestion, to provide a pension of £3 or £4 a week for honorable members who have given some years of service and ha ve then lost their seats, with very little prospect of making another start in life. I urge the Government to take the matter into consideration, and not merely to leave it to be arranged by members themselves, as the Minister has suggested. I hope the Government will go into it seriously, and in the fullest detail. Actuaries should be asked to work out a simple scheme. The Government now has an opportunity to do something which will encourage the right class of men to enter Parliament. They should not be left to feel that,  if the. fortunes of an election go against them, they may be simply thrown on the political scrap heap, or become a charitable charge upon their .country. 
I shall bring the matter under the notice of the Prime Minister, as I have already indicated. 
I draw attention to the item " Australian National Travel Association £20,000" That is an increase of £5,000 on the vote of the previous year. I should like the Assistant-Minister for Commerce  (Senator McDonald)  to tell the committee what this amount represents. Is it to be a subsidy to the Association? If so, what are the association's activities, and does the Commonwealth have any control over the money once the Association gets it? 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD ( Western Australia - Assistant Minister [9.49]. - The Australian National Travel Association was formed in 1929 at the request of a number of Australian business men to undertake national advertising, the object being to attract a greater number of tourists to our shores, and, by cultivating good- will and a better understanding of Australia's potentialities, and dissipating ignorance of things Australian, to inspire confidence in investors and thus enlarge the field for investment and industrial expansion. The Association is governed by an honorary board comprising  Mr. H.  W. . Clapp  (Chairman) representing Australian railways; Mr. D. L.  Dodwell,  representing shipping interests,  Mr. C.  Lloyd Jones, representing Australian business interests;  Mr. J.  37. Murphy, representing the Commonwealth Government; and  Mr. C.  W. Wilson, representing hotel interests. It derives its funds from contributions of business interests, overseas shipping lines, Australian railways and the Commonwealth Government, and from the sale of publications, photographs and so on. The activities of the association are directed towards gaining favorable publicity for Australia by syndicating photographs, articles and news items to the press, by maintaining contact with and educating travel-selling agents in the attractions of Australia, by collaborating with shipping lines, and by broadcasting and lecturing. The association has representatives in Great Britain and the United States of America, whilst the Australian Trade Commissioners in Canada, New Zealand, Netherlands Indies, China, Japan, and Egypt, and the trade representative in France, act as representatives of the association. A comparison of contributions for the year 1929-30 to the year 1936-37 shows that in 1929-30 ' the Commonwealth grant was £1,000, while other contributions from business, railways and other interests amounted to £16,585, or a total for that year of £17,585. In 1936-37, the Commonwealth grant was £15,000, and the other contributions we're £13,740, making a total of £28,740. .During the last eight years the total contributions from the Commonwealth have been £42,000 and from the  other interests already mentioned £108,644, making a total of £150,644 expended in this publicity. 

 Senator DUNCAN-HUGHES (South Australia) "9.52". - I notice two items in " Miscellaneous " - Votes for the Department of Commerce, viz.. " Apple and pear industry - Research, demonstration work and other expenditure, £10,000 " - that has been already mentioned by  Senator E.  B. Johnston - and " Apple and Pear Council - Grant for publicity, £5,000 ". I think I am right in. saying although I have not looked it up, that  n  bounty is already paid under legislation to the apple and pear industry. This appears to be a further bounty. On looking a little further, I find still a third one. I had anticipated that some one would ask the Minister for a statement about the Council for Scientific aud Industrial Research, but, as nothing has been said regarding it, I draw attention to Item 13 of Division 36 "Council for 
Scientific and Industrial Research " in the Prime Minister's Department - " Apple and pear industry - research and demonstration £5,410 ". . There is a note that this amount includes expenditure from contributions from outside sources. Last year the- grant for that purpose was £15,000, "of which £10,032 was expended. It is very hard indeed for honorable senators to keep trace of these special payments to special industries, when there are so many of them, and when some are not even shown in- this bill at all- Why should any bounty be paid specially to any particular industry for research work? Some two years ago, the wool-growers asked Parliament for power to tax themselves, and not for a grant from the Government, for the purpose of research work and publicity. That was  a right  principle, but why, in the case of another industry, and a big and powerful industry at that, should special provision be made for research and publicity, and then again, under the Council . for Scientific and Industrial Research, for further research and demonstration? Are these all the grants that have been made, or are there still some that I have not been able to trace? I have the greatest respect for the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. and it is far from my intention to disparage it. I think it has done the most excellent work, very largely due to the gentlemen who have been in control of it/ and I am not by any  means  disposed to cavil at the fact that the grant of the council is increasing considerably year by year, because I think it is justifying the increase by the work it is doing. Still, it is  exceedingly  desirable that all the items which are being paid to the council should be set out under the one beading, so that we oan see what payments are actually being made to it. I do not say that the items I am discussing ever go to the council at all, but if they do not, they should, because that is the body which is most likely to do research work efficiently. I am not at all in favour of handing over £10,000 to the apple and pear industry for its own private research purposes, and £5,000 for its publicity. I do not expect the Minister to be able to give me an answer in detail at this stage, but I hope he will note, first, that it is not desirable that special grants for research and publicity should be made to any particular industry. If they are, why should not others have their share? Secondly, it is much better, if such grants are to he ma.de, to make them to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and let that body decide which are the most desirable forms of research. Apparently, the apple and pear council itself gets the grant of £5,000 for publicity.  La  such a grant necessary, or desirable ? 
I can assure the honorable senator that, whatever money is used for research will be found as a grant to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. When the matter first caine before us, the council was invited to do a certain amount of work on thu purely scientific side. That, work is continuing, and is provided for in the Estimates of the Prime Minister's Department. There was also a certain amount of other work in the field, pertaining to the departments of agriculture of the various States, and really controlled by them, and which did not fall under the heading of research in the true sense of the term. It was performed by some outside body brought in to aid tlie fruit-growers in obtaining a better variety of tree, which would produce more suitable fruit for export. That section has been controlled and administered by the Department of Commerce. My colleague,  Senator MaeDonald,  will deal with the publicity side of the matter, but I can assure  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that in that regard there has been no overlapping at all. The scientific side has been kept entirely apart from the Department of Commerce, and any work budgeted for in thi3 section of the bill is work outside the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD (Western Australia - Assistant Minister) '10.0". - An amount of £10,000 is provided to cover the cost of research and demonstration  work in connexion with the apple and pear industry. A grant of £20,000 was made available by the Commonwealth for this purpose in 1.936. the provision being allocated on the following basis: Demonstration and advisory work, and improvement of cultural practices. £S,850; research work, £10,170; contingencies, £980 ; total, £20,000. The provision now being made is for the purpose of continuing this work, the previous programme for demonstration and advisory work having covered a period of one year only, and the amount allocated for research being spread over the two years ending 30th June, 193S. 
With regard to the provision for research and demonstration in connexion with the apple and pear industry, I point out that this is a balance transferred to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. The whole of the cost of this research is met from funds made available by the Department of Commerce out of moneys appropriated for that department under Division 112, Item 8. Follow7 hig n conference held in Melbourne, in March, 1936, the problems requiring investigation were divided among the various authorities as follows - 
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. - Investigation of codling moth, injury caused by spray, the results to bc obtained by gas storage, and the prevention of dieback. 
New South Wales Department of Agriculture - This State agreed to carry out stock and scion studies, and an investigation of the removal of arsenical residues and of  the problem of internal cork iri. the Kentucky district. 
Queensland Department of Agriculture. - A study of general horticultural problems in the Stanthorpe area. 
Victorian. Department, of Agriculture. - A study of codling moth in the Goulburn Valley and of mineral deficiencies in pears. 
South Australian Department of Agriculture. - Spray and fertilizer trials. 
Western Australian Department of Agriculture. - A study of die-back and investigation of green manuring practices. 
Tasmanian Department, of Agriculture. - A study of black spot and other fungal diseases : and an investigation of the Jassid and light  brown apple moth. 
As I have -not got any very definite reply as to whether these grants are desirable, and, apparently, am not going to receive such information, I shall pass on to Item 19 which includes administrative expenses in connexion with the election of ». representative on the Dairy Produce Control Board. For this purpose Parliament, last year, voted £100, hut on that election the Board expended £739. That seems to be acting on a pretty liberal scale. Why any board of this nature needs to spend £739 on the election of one representative requires a great deal of explanation. The bowd, too, apparently took a fairly free hand in the matter when it expended nearly eight times the amount voted. In the past we have been so often reminded, though not so frequently nowadays, of the great benefits to be derived from the activities of control boards, but the expenditure of nearly £750 on administrative expenses connected with the election of one representative to this board is calculated to make honorable senators wonder whether the game is worth the candle. 
In respect of overseas trade publicity, an amount of £37,500 is proposed to be provided to be paid to the credit of the Overseas Trade Publicity Trust Account. I should like to know the nature of this publicity and whether any contributions are made " from outside sources to this fund. 
Item 4, "  Hand-book  of AustraliaPrinting  and distribution evidently covers a new publication, and, I suggest, honorable senators would be interested in an outline of the plan of this work. 
A grant of £5,000 to the States for the provision of training facilities for dairy factory operatives is proposed. One is curious as to the necessity for this work, and as to how the amount is to be allocated amongst tlie various States. 
In regard to the proposed expenditure of £37,500 for "overseas trade publicity, I point out that in 1926 the Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the statutory boards controlling the exportation of dried fruits, canned fruits,' and dairy produce, established in London aa organization for the purpose of advertising those products throughout the United Kingdom. Subsequently voluntary organizations interested in the export of eggs and fresh fruits identified themselves with, the scheme. Control of the organization is vested in the Publicity Committee, of which  Mr. A.  F. Bell is  chairman,  and the publicity activities in the United Kingdom are carried out under the direction of  Mr. A.  E. Hyland, Director of Australian Trade Publicity. Up to 1929-30, the Commonwealth contributed to the scheme on a £1 for £1 basis with the industries concerned, and, in addition, made available a sum of £2,500 annually for the purpose of exhibitions. Subsequent to that year, the Commonwealth's contribution was on a reduced basis as a consequence of the financial depression. With the return of improved financial conditions, the Commonwealth increased its contribution in 1935-36, and made a. further substantial increase in 1936-37. In view of the large amounts being spent on trade publicity bv the competitors of Australia in the United Kingdom market, it is considered essential that the Commonwealth subsidy should be continued on a substantial basis. In respect of the current year, the Commonwealth proposes to contribute £30,000 for publicity and' £7,500 for exhibitions, whilst the total amount estimated to be provided by other contributing bodies is £45,000. These amounts are in sterling. 
As to the provision for an official handbook of Australia, it is proposed that the booklet shall be illustrated with maps and photographs, and that it shall contain information concerning geographical features, population, production, export, communications, irrigation and water supply, land settlement, government, social conditions, &amp;c, as well as facts regarding Australia as a field for investment, such as cost of power supplies, types and locations of existing industries. At present the  Commonwealth  purchases advertising space in special journals, obtaining copies of these journals for distribution overseas, but such, expenditure would be obviated by the publication of an official hand-book. 

 Senator GRANT (Tasmania) [10.10'J. - In respect of the proposed grant of £2,120 to assist the honey industry, I point out that last year a sum of £1,500 was voted for this purpose, but only £10 of that amount was expended. I should like to have some explanation of the discrepancy in these figures, and why an a mount of £2,120 should be required, in view of the expenditure of only £10 in this direction last year. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD (Western Australia - Assistant Minister) 1 10. 11]. - At the moment I have no details of the cost of the election last year of a member of the Dairy Produce Control Board to which  Senator DuncanHughes  referred, I point out that no provision is made in that respect this year, because no election is to be held. 
I shall secure the information desired by the honorable senator. 
As a consequence of representations to the Commonwealth through the Agricultural Council for assistance to the State governments for the purpose of providing better facilities for the training of dairy factory operatives in order to ensure a regular supply of highly trained and fully qualified men with the object of securing general improvement, particularly in factory technique, and a consequential uplift of quality of Australian butter, Cabinet, on the 12th- August, 1936, agreed to provide a grant to each State of a sum not exceeding £1,400. The amount provided is estimated to be  suffi- 
Mel t to cover the present year's requirements. The grant may be used either for capital expenditure or for the provision of bursaries to approved students, and any scheme must first be approved by the Minister for 'Commerce and the Treasurer. The expenditure so far approved under this scheme is as follows: - New South Wales: Commonwealth to contribute £1,400 towards the cost of improvements to Hawkesbury Agricultural College; Tasmania: £1,400 to be utilized for payment, over a period of years, towards the cost of establishing bursaries of £100 per annum to Tas- 'manian students attending Gatton and Hawkesbury Agricultural Colleges ; Queensland : Commonwealth to contribute £1,400 towards the cost of extensions and improvements to Gatton Agricultural High School and College ; Victoria : Commonwealth to contribute £1,400 towards the construction of a new school of dairy technology, Werribee; South Australia : £1,400 to be utilized for payment over a period of years, of the cost of establishing bursaries of £100 per annum to South Australian students attending Hawkesbury Agricultural College, New South Wales. The Western Australian Government has under consideration a proposal for the utilization of the grant towards the cost of improving the Muresk Agricultural College, but no definite scheme has been submitted. 

 Senator Grant inquired concerning assistance to the honey industry. On the Sth July, 1936, Cabinet approved of the provision of a sum of £1,500 to be expended for the purpose of assisting the honey industry in the form of stimulating local consumption in a manner which would not require legislation. The sum of £1,500 to cover this proposed expenditure was placed on the Estimates for 1936-37, but it was found impracticable to formulate an effective publicity scheme in time to effect payment of the accounts during that year. A committee, consisting of representatives of the honey industry and this department, drew up a plan of campaign and arranged with Gothams (Aust.) Limited to conduct the campaign, which included radio and newspaper publicity, and the issue of 4.0,000 copies of a honey booklet. Interest in the product was further stimulated by holding a honey, recipe competition, which drew well over 30,000 .entries. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Refunds of Revenue, £1,350,000; and Advance to the Treasurer, £2)000,000- agreed to. 
War Services Payable out of Revenue. 

 Proposed vote, £1,261,300. 

 Senator COLLETT (/Western Australia1* f 10.16]. - The Australian War Memorial in Canberra has been under construction for at least two years, and so far as I am aware members of this Parliament have not yet been afforded an opportunity to inspect the progress of the work, it would be fitting to invite honorable senators to inspect the building, especially as we are being asked to vote £150,000 towards its completion. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD (Western Australia. - Assistant Minister) [10.17 J. - I shall be pleased to facilitate an inspection of the Australian War Memorial provided that 1. receive sufficient notice to enable the necessary arrangements to be made. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vole - Commonwealth Railways, £662,440 - agreed to. 
Postmaster-General's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £11,062,450. 

 Senator UPPILL (South Australia) [10.1-iSj. - I bring under the notice of the Postmaster-General  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  the urgent necessity to extend greater postal and telephone facilities to those living in the more remote parts of the Commonwealth. While the Government has done a great deal in this respect, particularly on Eyre Peninsula, in South Australia, I believe that much more can be done to improve the conditions under which settlers are living by providing for the carriage of air mails at the ordinary letter rate. I understand that Tasmania has received some concession in this respect, and that on Kangaroo Island no surcharge is imposed on air-mail letters. A similar concession should be extended to those in the outback portions, not only of South Australia, including the far north, but also of other States. Suggestions have been made that the ordinary postage rate should be reduced from 2d. to lid., but a greater benefit would be conferred by extending facilities to those whose mail and telephone services are now most inadequate. Some settlers have to travel long distances to an exchange, and then have to defray the cost of opening the office. Many persons, not only in the more remote parts, but also in some closelysettled areas, cannot incur the cost of a telephone service. Those requiring a tele phone service have to meet the cost of constructing the telephone line or contribute a heavy rent if the Government erects and maintains the line. This often creates the position that, owing to insufficient numbers, a district is prevented from having the opportunity of opening an exchange, or where there is an exchange, the subscribers are denied reasonable hours of service. I trust that the Postmaster-General will endeavour to give greater facilities to these people who are rendering a very useful service to the community in developing the outback country.- 
[10.20 j . - The honorable senator can rest assured that 1 am only too anxious to develop the air mail and other similar services in the outback portions of Australia wherever practicable. As provision has already been made for the expenditure of £17,000 on additional road mail services it will be seen that development is extending. Some of the services to which the honorable senator referred, are at present under the consideration of the department. The position which has arisen on Kangaroo Island is due to the fact that those controlling the plane service acted in open competition with the boat service which carried the mail to Second Valley from which point it was transported by road. Air mail contracts are controlled by the Civil Aviation Department, but the PostmasterGeneral's Department subsidizes the service. The manner in which air mail services have developed within the last twelve, months is amazing, and within the next year or two further important improvements can be expected. The telephone charges imposed in Australia are. on a generous sr-ale, and on country telephone services a total annual loss of £400,000 has been incurred. In some » country areas 90 per cent, of the subscribers receive a service at, a. ground rental of £3 5s., and for the five years ended the 30th June, 1935, a loss of £1.800,000 was incurved. '1'he department is doing everything possible to provide a reasonable service, and it is only recently that there- has been the. relaxation to which the honorable senator referred. 
. -I congratulate the PostmasterGeneral (  Senator A.  J. McLachlan) upon the development which has taken place in the services of his department in Western Australia, and upon the increase of efficiency generally;but I remindhim that there are still vast portions of that State which are not adequately catered for by the department. Can the Minister state why the cost of the national broadcasting service in Western Australia is to be increased by £5,000 as compared with last year? 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Northern Territory. 

 Proposed vote, £306,150. 
I noticed in the press some time ago that the recently appointed Administrator of the Northern Territory had decided that the officer in charge at Alice Springs, who hitherto had been known as the  Deputy  Administrator, was to be designated, I think, the secretary. When at Alice Springs a year or two ago, I was forcibly struck with the difficulty confronting the Northern Territory from an administrative viewpoint. There should be a  deputy  administrator at Alice Springs, who, when required to act, presumably has to telegraph to Canberra through Darwin. Is there any power under which that officer can communicate direct with the Minister at Canberra, or has a message to be sent 1,250 miles north and then 1,750 miles south? It is that sort of thing that makes administration of the back country difficult and unsatisfactory. As a matter of fact a good deal is being done for the Northern Territory under this Appropriation Bill, and the total expenditure this year will be considerable. The second question which I put to the Minister is in respect of the item, definition of the 129th meridian. Last year the expenditure on this item was £1,447 and this year the vote is £1,000. One feels that if last year those engaged in the business could not define the meridian for £1,447, the best thing to do is to give up the search and not pay another £1,000 this year! I notice also, that last year there was a grant of £2,306 in aid of the Darwin Town Council, and to cover cost of services taken over from the council for a portion of the year. The Mayor of Darwin last year received an honorarium of £100, but this year there is no provision for that dignatary.I hope that no unfair preference is being shown to last year's mayor as against the occupant of the office this year. I should like some information about the grant to be given to the Darwin Town Council, and why the mayor last year was considered to have earned £100, while the mayor this year will not receive any such recognition. Generally, official functions will be carried out by the Administrator, but it might be quite worth while to vote to the mayor of Darwin a small amount, because Darwin is one of the gateways to Australia, and it may be desirable for the mayor of that town to take some part in the welcoming of visitors to these shores. 
No, becauseFremantle is a large and important city with a strong corporation. The Government could no more be expected to assist the Mayor of Fremantle than it could be expected to assist the Mayor of Port Adelaide. Port Darwin is in an entirely different position and I think something might, in reason, be done to assist the mayor of that town. 
.- The officer at Alice Springs, formerly the Deputy Administrator, is now District Officer and has no authority to communicate direct with the Minister for the Interior at Canberra except in an emergency, when he would be entitled to use his initiative. It is obvious that if permission were given to some officers to communicate direct with the Minister for the Interior in Canberra, the Administrator would not have the complete knowledge and the control of Northern Territory affairs which are essential to good administration. With regard to the air mail services, I can inform the committee that matters have been speeded up,  and I understand that there isnow practically no delay whatever in distribution.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  mentioned the honorarium paid last year to the Mayor of Darwin and the grant in aid of the local Town Council. There is now no mayor. The Darwin Town Council ceased to function last year. The duties formerly discharged by it are now being carried out by the Department of the Interior. The survey of the 129th meridian was in hand last year and is to be continued this year in a northerly direction. 
It has been agreed that the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Western Australia shall contribute equally to the cost of defining the boundary between the Northern Territory and the State of Western Australia. The expenditure this year is estimated at £2,000, of which the Commonwealth will be required to contribute one-half. Survey parties under the control of the State Government are at present carrying out this work. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Federal Capital Territory, £328,410; Papua, £44,160; and Norfolk Island, £4,000- agreed to. 
Second schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clause 3 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
Again, at the request of the Queensland branch of the Partially Blinded Sailors' and Soldiers' Association of Australia, I bring under the notice of the Government the claim of  Mr. C.  E. Kruger, a blinded soldier, for a war pension. I have received from the honorary secretary of the association a letter stating that the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes had declared that this case had been fully investigated by the War Pension Entitlement Tribunal. The association contends that the tribunal in question has not at any time dealt fairly with this man's claim. It has on every occasion decided against Kruger solely on the opinion of  Sir James  Barrett, who did not, at any time, have an opportunity to examine the man. The departmental specialist in Queensland  (Dr. Lockart Gibson),  I am informed, stated definitely in his report on the 10th July, 1924, that the disability in the right eye  was  due to war service. In 1928, he reported that there was no doubt that the condition of the right eye was due to war service, but that the defect in the left eye was attributable to old-age.Dr. Wallis Hoare, one of the leading eye specialists in Brisbane, at the request of the association, made a thorough investigation of Kruger and reported,  inter alia - 
Eight eye blind; left eye blind. As to the incidence of the optic atrophy, the right eye appears to have been affected in 1916, the left eye some years later. . . . One is forced to the conclusion that, like many other cases of primary optic atrophy, the origin is obscure, and no attributable cause can be definitely assigned.  1 understand that this man did receive a pension for a time. It seems incomprehensible that the War Pensions Entitlement Tribunal should, on the opinion of  Sir James  Barrett, declare that Kruger's disability was not due to war service, notwithstanding the reports of  Dr. Lockart  Gibson and  Dr. Wallis  Hoare. There have been many cases of partial loss of sight due to contamination from the use  of dirty towels and blankets, and from the millions of flies that abounded in Egypt, I hope that the Minister for Repatriation will give to this matter his personal attention and insist upon having all the facts. If he does this, I feel sure that Kruger will not continue to suffer a grave injustice at the hands of the entitlement tribunal. 
. -I shall be obliged if the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  will givean undertaking that to-morrow honorable senators will have an opportunity to discuss the Ottawa agreement. This is a most important matter, and I feel sure thatmany senators will welcome the chance to express their opinion upon it. 
I shall have the file in regard to  Mr. Kruger  sent to me at Canberra, and will take up the matter with the Repatriation Commission. It is only fair to say that the Repatria- t ion Commission and the various tribunals which deal with soldiers' cases were set up by Parliament at the request of the returned soldiers' organizations in order that, as far as possible, the administration of repatriation benefits should be free from political control. I mention, moreover, that every member of the tribunals is a returned soldier. Knowing the personnel of these bodies, I can say that their one desire is to do full justice to returned soldier claimants. The  deputy chairman  of the Repatriation Commission is in Canberra, and I shall discuss these matters with him. If it be possible to assist Kruger without contravening the act,I shall be glad to do so. 
.  - in reply  - In regard to the request of  Senator Leckie  I can only say that, if it is the wish of honorable senators, I shall be glad to afford the Senate an opportunity to discuss the statement in relation to trade agreements which was made to-day in the House of Representatives, although, personally, I can foresee little or no profit from doing so, except that honorable senators will be able to ascertain the prin ciples underlying the policy of the Government in regard to any negotiations that may ensue. 
As to trade negotiations between Great Britainand the United States of America, I point out that, at this stage, Australia is not. a party to them. Moreover, 1 am not convinced that more harm than good will not ensue from a premature discussion of something upon which we may never embark. I shall consult Cabinet tomorrow morning, and if I can find means to bring this subject before the Senate prior to the Christmas recess, I shall be glad to do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Accompanied by honorable senators I, this day, waited on the Governor-General and presentedto him the Address-in-Reply to  His  Excellency's Speech on the occasion of the opening of Parliament,  agreed to  by the Senate on the 2nd December, 1937. His Excellency was pleased to make the following reply: - 
Government House, 
Canberra, 8th December, 1937. 

 Mr. President, 
I desire to thank you for the AddressinReply which you have just presented to me. It will afford me much pleasure to convey to  His  Most Gracious Majesty the King the message of loyalty from the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, to which the Address gives expression. 
I have received from Lady Ryrie a letter of thanks for the resolution of sympathy passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of Major-General the Honorable  Sir Granville  de Laune Ryrie, K.C.M.G., C.B., V.D. 
.  - I lay  on the table  of the Senate the following paper :  - 
Northern Australia Survey Act- Report of Committee appointed to direct and control the Aerial, Geological and Geophysical Survey of Northern Australia, for the period ended 30th June, 1037.  and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
Motion agreed to. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister, whether the Government will, when making appointments to the staff of the Interstate Commission about to be established, take into account the claims of suitable and qualified returned soldier public servants, and give to them the same consideration as was given to returned soldier applicants when filling a vacancy on the Commonwealth Public Service Board some months ago ? 
I give that undertaking. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice -  1.With reference to  Mr. Casey's  recent reported statements that " it is the multiplicity of Australian tuxes which upsets the overseas investor " and thathe hoped " it would bo possible for all Australian Governments to get together and remove the taxation difficulties which beset the overseas investor ", when will the proposed conference on this subject be held? 
Will any taxation relief extended to overseas investors similarly apply to Australian citizens? 
If not, why not? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - 
The terms used by the Treasurer were to the effect that the Commonwealth and State Governments had already gone a considerable way towards the smoothing out of taxation difficulties experienced by overseas investors in Australian securities, but that there were still some difficulties remaining arising out of the multiplicity of taxation authorities in Australia. It was hoped that, by consultation between Commonwealth and State authorities, progress would be made in making taxation formalities simpler for overseas investors. 2 and 3. The honorable senator can rest assured that no privileges will be afforded to overseas investors that are not enjoyed by Australian taxpayers. 
asked the 
Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
With reference to the reply to a question by  Senator E.  B. Johnston regarding the carriage of air mails to and from Tasmania free of surcharge - 
Is not the North-West of Western Australia more distant and more isolated than Tasmania? 
Will the same release from extra postal charge he extended to letters carried by the North-Western Australia Air Mail to and from points betweenGeraldton and Darwin? 
If not, why not? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
Yes, it is recognized that the North-West of Western Australia is more distant ana isolated than Tasmania. 
It is not possible to state at this juncture what the ultimate arrangements will be in regard to the development of the air mail services in respect of the routesection mentioned between Geraldton and Darwin. 
The substitution of air transport for the carriage of first-class mails, instead of by surface means, is a world-wide development which is taking place over heavily loaded mail routes, and is justifiable because of the saving in time which can beeffected in the delivery of a very large volume of correspondence, so long as the additional cost entailed is of a reasonable amount when compared with the extent of the benefits resulting from the change. 
It has previously been indicated that policy is being developed to utilize air transportation for the whole of the first-class mails over routes connecting State capitals, and where the volume of correspondence is very heavy. The establishment of the Tasmania air service carryingall first-class mail matter is the first stage in the development of this policy, and it is hoped that, along with other States, Western Australia will benefit similarly by the East-West connexion which will form a part of the general plan. 
The honorable senators will recognize the impracticability of developing a more extensive network for the carriage of mail without surcharge over long distance routes, where the volume of correspondence to be dealt with is of small dimensions and consequently where the cost would be out of proportion to the extent of the benefit which might result. 
" HAWKER DEMON " AIRCRAFT. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister forDefence,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister consider the advisability of suspending the use of all " Hawker Demon " planes until after the inquiry into the recent mishapsand tragedies in which these machines were involved? 
SenatorFOLL. - The Minister for Defencehas supplied the following answer :  - 
Action to suspendtheflying of Demon aircraft is not considered necessary as preliminary inquiries made by air force officers into the causes of the recent mishaps have not disclosed anything connectedwith the air frames or engines that would give rise to suspicion that the aircraft is unairworthy. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
Concerning the reported losses suffered during ' recent years by the pastoral industry in Queensland and Western Australia, and with reference to a statement made by  Senator Collett  in the Senate on the 1st instant, has the Government given consideration to any proposals, submitted by the States, for the institution of some measure or plan (governmental or co-operative) to counter the adverse effects, or otherwise assist the primary producers as a whole, or in part, in respect to losses likely to be experienced in the future as the result of recurring visitations of drought, flood, storms, pests or low prices? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer :  - 
Representations have been made . from time to time by various States for financial assistance fromthe. Commonwealthfor the relief of Sufferers from the effects of drought, &amp;c. 
Whilst beingsympathetic with the situation of primary producers at such times, the Government considers that the question of relief is one for the various State governments, and that it is not appropriate for the Commonwealth to assume financial responsibility. 
Losses from drought, fire, flood, hail, 'pests, &amp;c, are suffered in some portion of one or more of the States from time to time. The adoption of the principle of financial assistance from the Commonwealth would therefore involve acceptance of a permanent Commonwealth liability. 
Moreover, this matter is one which is inseparably wrapped up with other phases of State government policy over which the Commonwealth Governmenthas no control. 
In these circumstances, the Government regrets that it is unable to see its way clear to grant financial assistance in the cases referred to 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it not a fact that the aerial traffic to and from the Maylands Aerodrome in Western Australia is rapidly increasing in importance? 2.Has the Minister received any communication or report suggesting the existence of risks to traffic arising from the height of several structures in the neighbourhood of this aerodrome? 
If any such communication or report has been received, what action is it proposed to take in order to ensure the safety of pilots and passengers? 
SenatorFOLL. - The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers :  - 
Therehas been considerable increase in aerial traffic to and from Maylands Aerodrome in recent years. 
Certain reports have been received regarding the obstruction in the neighbourhood of this aerodrome. 
Maylands Aerodrome and the area within a distance of approximately 3 miles from the boundaries of the aerodrome have been proclaimed a defence area. Under the Control of Defence Areas Regulations, no buildings, erections or other structureswhich would exceed certain specified heights . may be erected within such defence area without the consent ofthe Minister for Defence. There is thus power to control the construction of buildings orother erectionsexeeding certain heights which, in the opinion of the Minister, should not be permitted. There is no power under these regulations to deal with existing structures, but all those considered necessary have already been marked by obstruction lights. This is portion of the lighting equipment at Maylands Aerodrome, the installation of which has now been completed. 
askedthe Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice- 
Referring to the Minister's reply to Question No. 8 of 2nd December last- 
Is it a fact that applications were invited in the  Commonweal th Government Gazette  of the 25th November, 1937, for the position of Junior Attendant (Fourth Division), Parliament House,Canberra, salary £242 to £258, and that in the advertisement of this position no provision was made that applicants need be permanent officers of the Public Service? 
Are there, among permanent officers, no persons with the qualifications necessary for such a position? 
What opportunities are providedfor persons already employed in the capacity of cleaners, attendants, &amp;c. at Parliament House to gain promotion without competition from persons not in the permanent employment of the Commonwealth Public Service? 
The following information has been furnished by the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives :  - 
Yes. 
Tuc advertisement sought to ascertain whether there were any such officers with the necessary qualifications desirous of appointment to the position. :(. Cleaners and attendants, ite., employed at Parliament House are eligible for promotion to higher positions of a non-clerical nature. 
asked tlie Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 

 Has the attention of the Govern ment been directed to the press reports relative to the gold rush in the Northern Territory known as The Hoek Hole Moonlight Field, and that its discovery was duo to the self-sacrificing efforts  it" thi: late Harold A. Waldron, who lost his life on the expedition? 
ls it a fact that serious difficulty in connexion with the allocation of claims is being experienced? :t. Will the Government take the utmost precautions" to protect the interests of this deceased gentleman and his family, in recognition of his work? 
The  Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answers: - 
Departmental records show "that the Moonlight rockhole field was discovered in March last by Prospectors Michelson and Lane, nui is situated about 45 miles north-west of Tennant Creek township. 
No serious difficulties in the allocation of claims on the field have been reported by the Administrator. 
The department 1ms no knowledge that the late  Mr. Waldron  was associated with the discovery of this field, but inquiries will be made and the honorable senator advised, in due course. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon .notice - 
What number of anti-aircraft guns have now been made in Australia? 
Is it true that such guns, when made, cannot lie used because of the lack of certain gauge*? 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers : - 
it is contrary to the public interest to disclose the number of guns or ammunition manufactured in the munitions factories. 
No. The guns have been made strictly in accordance with the British specifications and can be used whenever required. Those completed have passed all firing tests. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What quantity of high speed steel, used for making dies, &amp;c, was imported during, the year ending Juno. 1937? 2.. Can this class of steel be made in Australia.? 
'Is there a shortage of this class of steel 
asked the Minister representing tin3 Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Referring to the reply furnished by  the  Minister to Question No.  (I  on Thursday, 2nd December last, in connexion with the calling of tenders for certain shell and bomb bodies and ammunition components and stores, doe* the Government actually intend placing orders in accordance with such tenders? 
Is the tenderer expected  to  tender such amount only as will cover costs, or is he expected, in view of the fact that the orders are to be purely educational,  to  include  in  his tendered amount a margin of profit? 
If- it is found that commercial capacity exists in Australia for the manufacture of the class of items for which tenders have been called, is it the intention of the Government to utilize such capacity with consequent profit to private enterprise? 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers : - 
The placing of contracts for ammunition components and stores will depend upon  the  response received. Subject to tenderers' prices and conditions being satisfactory, it is  the  Government's intention to place orders. 
As competitive tenders have been invited, it is a matter for each tenderer as to what costs are included. 
As previously intimated to the honorable member, the aim of the present tenders is  to  ascertain if commercial capacity exists in Australia for the manufacture of the class  of  items for which tenders are being invited.  It  is a stage in the plans - which are being developed for mobilizing the resources of industry in an emergency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
In view of the work done by  Dr. Donald  Thomson in connexion with the welfare  of  the Australian aborigines, will the Government make his reports available to members? 
The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answer: - 

 Dr. Thomson proposes to make two reports, me a confidential report for the information &gt;f the Government, and the other a general scientific report. The latter will be made available to members. The question of making he former available will receive consideration. 
asked the Minister  representing  the Minister for Defence,  upon  notice - 
Will the Government make available  direct  to the Commonwealth Council of Rifle Associations for equitable distribution to States concerned, any amount which has been &gt;r may be provided for the entertainment of he South African rifle team, in view of the act that that team will visit Western  Australia,  South Australia and Victoria as well is New South Wales? 
Will a similar course be adopted as  regards  any other dominion rifle teams? 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following  answers  : - 
A grant has been made available to the Commonwealth Council of Rifle Associations o provide for the entertainment by the State Une Associations concerned of overseas rifle earns visiting the States of Victoria, Queenland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. Expenditure on the entertainment  if  overseas rifle teams in New South Wales vill be provided from the Commonwealth grant tor Australia's 150th Anniversary Celebrations. 
Yes. 
. -I lay on the table of the Senate the following paper: - 
Empire Trade and the Ottowa Agreement - Statement. ind move - 
That the paper be printed. 
During the next few months the trading  relations  of Australia and the dominions generally, the United Kingdom and the  United  States of America will be under  consideration,  and it is of the greatest  importance  that the present opportunities 'or co-operation should not be missed. 
It is hoped that British and American co-operation in matters of trade will make a substantial contribution to the promotion of world trade generally. It is now intended, primarily, to discuss the Ottawa agreement, revision of which cannot be long delayed. It is necessary for the effective discussion of that agreement that something should be said about the historical background, and the general principles affecting Empire trade and the trade of the world. Before the Ottawa agreement, Empire preference, though existent, was not widely organized on a reciprocal basis. The adoption by Great Britain in 1931 of a- protective tariff system clearly facilitated an Empire reciprocal preferential system. The immediate result was the Ottawa Conference. When it met, trade had fallen away disastrously, and prices of primary products were at a low level. The Empire countries came together to see how far they could protect each other against a world depression, and, after much hard work, the conference succeeded. The greatest immediate material result, from ah Australian point of view, was the United Kingdom and Australia Trade Agreement of 1932, which is commonly referred to as the Ottawa agreement. It is unnecessary to refer to the details of that agreement, except to say that under it Australian exports obtained substantial preference in the United Kingdom market. At the same time British exports secured systematized advantages in" the Australian market. By the articles of the agreement certain limitations were placed upon Australian tariff autonomy, a result which is, perhaps, the inevitable consequence of every international trade treaty, and must, therefore, not be exaggerated, although its precise nature requires to be examined. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  has publicly stated that a revision of . the agreement will shortly be initiated. -The recent commencement, of the AngloAmerican trade negotiations, which may possibly impinge upon, and be affected by, the British preferential system, renders it inevitable that the revision of Ottawa should, to some extent at least, be discussed concurrently with those negotiations. In effect, we are shortly to be called upon to clarify our minds in respect of the complex and interrelated problems of our own national development, Empire preferences, and the revival of world trade. It is difficult to formulate precise plans; negotiations may be hampered by too great definition. Certain ' general principles must, however, be borne in mind, in the first place, it will be admitted that our own all-round industrial development is the essential condition, not only of our growth, but also of our existence. The vital problem of populating Australia cannot be solved within a measurable period of time without . migration. The attraction and absorption of migrants will depend essentially upon the increasing growth of Australian industrial activity. Our protective policy, therefore, is not mere proof of either selfishness, or self-sufficiency ; it is the basic condition of our national safety. A great service is done to Great Britain and to the whole British world by making our country strong, well-balanced, and self-reliant. 
The articles of the Ottawa, agreement will require review in the light of this fundamental principle. It is true that the not unfavorable interpretation of the agreement by the Australian Tariff Board, the sturdy Australianism with which that Board has invariably com ducted its inquiries, and other circumstances, including the exchange position, have prevented some of the articles from having any untoward results. But disputes on interpretation have occurred, and we must endeavour to avoid them in future. It is, for example, difficult as a matter of literal interpretation to see how we can have "protection " by a tariff which, under Article  10,  "shall not exceed such a level as will give United Kingdom producers full opportunity of reasonable competition ". since the object of a protective tariff, when applied to an efficiently conducted industry, is to help that industry by excluding the competition of overseas suppliers. Article  12  also has been criticized on the ground that the tariff will of the Commonwealth Parliament may be subordinated to the decision of an administrative tribunal, and that if such were the case, the sound general principle of independent and expert tariff investigation would be carried beyond the realm of domestic political policy into that  of  international obligation. The whole  of.  the articles will be reconsidered in  the  light of experience and with the aid  of  valuable comments and suggestions made from time to time by interested and  representative  bodies. 
Apart from the development of our own resources, our policy ha3 been and is one of Empire preference - that is of the essence of Ottawa  -  but we must consider the working of our Empire preferential system in its relation to the genera" prosperity of the world; we must also be prepared to ask ourselves plain questions, and we must not avoid  th,  answering of them. In the Ottawa year. British Empire trade was  27.5  per cent of the total world trade; by  1936,  it  hae  risen to  31  per cent. In the Ottawa year. intra-Empire trade was  25.7  per cent,  oi  the total trade of the British Empire countries; by  3935,  it had risen to  30.4  per cent. In other words, the Empire's share of the total world trade has increased, and Empire countries have conducted among themselves an increasing share of their total trade. Insofar as this growth is clue to the more rapid economic recovery of the Empire during the  past  few years, and insofar as it demonstrates Empire co-operation and the sense of family partnership, it is a good and satisfying thing. But if it could be shown that Empire trade had grown at the  expense  of world trade, and that Ave  were  pursuing exclusive policies calculated to encourage the growth of economic nationalism in Europe, the immediate statistics would not comfort us for  very  long. 
The question of our Empire preferential system has been raised because it  may  be that we are reaching a point in economic history when a rigid insistence upon the fullest measure of Empire  preference  may prevent the British countries from taking their proper part in  a  groat movement for world appeasement through the revival of trade. It is, however, impossible to dogmatize; the situation must just be watched and studied, and the Government must be ready to diacuss and consider. We are too conscious  of  tho value of the Empire and its preferential system to make even a modification of that system unless we are driven to it by a real prospect of compensating benefit. The British market has been and is our best market, and our policies, both before and after Ottawa, have recognized that fact. But it may be that the United Kingdom and the United States  of  "America in the long run cannot-reach agreement without some modification of dominion preference in the United Kingdom, or United Kingdom preferences in the dominions; it may be that the United States of America would be prepared to facilitate such modification by making concessions in its own market to the dominions. In such an eventuality, the Australian Government might not consider that it, any more than the Government of the United Kingdom, should blindly adhere to the complete sanctity of the preference system as it now stands, but might be willing to discuss the matter as a whole with the other British countries and with the United States of America. 
It. will be recalled that during the last ten years, Australia's commodity trade with other Empire countries has shown a passive balance of about £6,000,000 a year, which becomes much larger when the invisible items are considered. Our active balances are largely with foreign countries. Indeed, it is not too much to say that if we apply immediatematerial standards, Australia is at present a greater contributor to Empire trade than a beneficiary from it. That does not mean that complete balance is either necessary or desirable; but it is a factor to be considered when the Ottawa agreement is under review, and the future of world trade is being discussed. 
Reference has already been made to the necessity for .ill-round industrial development in this country. Our manufactures have been instanced. At this stage, further reference may be made to our primary products. Many millions of pounds have been spent in Australia on water supply schemes, the development of the means of transport, and the provision of facilities for greatly expanded production. For example, the Murray Valley is merely at the beginning of its production of fruit and fat lambs. Where outside of Australia are they to be sold? The United Kingdom has always been Australia's best market; it has been increasingly so since the Ottawa Conference, and the valuable meat agreements of the last three years. But it is impossible to believe that Great Britain, with all its good-will, can continue indefinitely to absorb more and more, of Australia's surplus production. We are guilty of no want of appreciation of the Empire spirit and what it has done for us, or of the supreme value of the British market, when we say that this young country, on the threshold of its development must look to the whole world for its markets. That is why the negotiations with the United States of America are approached by us in a helpful spirit. Should the negotiations between Great Britain and the United States of America lead to some effective financial and commercial rapprochement with Germany, so that that country becomes once more a large buyer of the natural products of other countries, the effect on_Aust.ra.lia. because of the intensification of its development, would be remarkable. 
It is, of course, realized that international negotiations must inevitably involve compromises on everything except national security and vital principles. In order that its consideration of the details may be wise and well-informed, the Government will take every opportunity to consult with representatives of both primary and secondary industries. 

 No abandonment of the principle of preference is foreshadowed. The principle is sound; but the interests of the British people as a whole require that it should be our servant, not our master. There will always be room for that kind of preference in trade, which recognizes that all British people are of one family, that their ties are many and varied, that they have instincts and interests in common, and that the growth and safety of each section is of moment to the others. But preferences must not be so rigid that they constitute an. unnecessary challenge to the rest of tlie world. That does  not  mean that we are to throw down our walls; it simply means that we  must  occasionally be prepared to step over them  to do business with the man on the other side. 
It is in this spirit that we must approach the delicate negotiation's of the next few months. Our mutual preferences, though they must continue to be real and substantial, must be sufficiently elastic to permit British people the world over to seize every opportunity to encourage the nations of the world to forget old quarrels, suspicions, fears, and grievances, and come back into that full commercial life which can do so much to turn men's thoughts into the paths of peace. 
I do not know that I have ever felt more sympathy with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  than I have this afternoon while listening to the statement which he has just read. It was the finest bit of word spinning to which I have ever listened in this chamber. I imagine that an army of legal experts was commissioned to draft a document which would take a quarter of an hour or so to read and would convey nothing definite or worthwhile, or even intelligible, to any person who heard it I have heard debates in this chamber in which it was suggested that  greater safeguards should be employed in order to ensure that regulations or ordinances should be made water-tight, but I guarantee that no lawyer, or body of lawyers, can make the statement read to-day water-tight in any of its numerous sections. I did intend to make notes as the Minister proceeded with his reading, but I got lost in a maze of impossibilities, because he no sooner said one thing than he contradicted it in his next statement. Towards the conclusion of the statement the Minister said something to the effect that Australia must look to the whole world for its markets. Surely he knows that the whole world is becoming more and more contracted so far as its capacity to consume Australian surplus products is concerned. Obviously, each of the countries with which Australia might negotiate for a trade treaty must, because of actions which it is taking to protect its own interests, become less capable of giving any advantage to Australia or to any other contracting party. Consequently the Government which is respon sible for the statement read by the Leader of the Senate this afternoon is merelydoing what it always does, namely, running around the problem and definitely, and I admit adroitly, refusing to face the facts.' I am not convinced that there is any value in the introduction of this document into the Senate this afternoon. Although I am taking part in the discussion of it, I am doing so because the reading of the statement means that the gauntlet has been thrown down and discussion is asked for. As the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber I do not propose to allow any statement made on behalf of the Government, which I think is worthy of notice, to pass without scrutiny. Nevertheless, I believe that the whole discussion, whatever its quality, will be futile. We all know that whatever the Government desires to do with regard to the Ottawa agreement will be done, and that whatever decision it cornea to in relation to any Anglo-American pact will be given effect. All the grandiloquent assurances given in the House of Representatives that any agreement which may tentatively be made cannot be ratified until it has first been submitted to the Parliament amount only to so much political deceit, because we know that when the agreement reaches Parliament, members will be told, as they have been told on other occasions, that they must either accept or reject the agreement, because they cannot amend it. Consequently, I repeat that this discussion is a futility. It is a futility for the further reason that the Cabinet is peculiarly constituted. I am almost disposed to sympathize with the Government in its present predicament. During the last week a valiant attempt has been made to reconcile the discordant elements represented by the different political parties which constitute the , composite Government. 
I regret that interjection, because it is not worthy of the honorable senator who made it. He knows well that no Labour member, even if he desires to do so, is allowed to take office in any government which is not entirely composed of Labour members. 
There is no member of the Labour party in the Ministry in Victoria, and the honorable senator knows it. What the Government is attempting in that connexion is absolutely impossible. I am delighted to see it. I extend to the Government my sympathy and hope its political demise will be hastened as the result of the indecent alliance which has been made. When I say " indecent " I mean, of course, politically indecent, but, obviously, the right phrase is " tremendously inconvenient". Before I proceed further, I should like to know to which Minister I am to direct my remarks, because  Senator A.  J. McLachlan represents the Department for External Affairs, which we were old yesterday is always called into consultation before any agreement is finally consummated, SenatorFoll represents the Department of Trade and Customs, and  Senator Allan  MacDonald represents the Department of Commerce. In spite of the assurances given in another place, we know that no such thing as harmony exists in the Cabinet. War to the knife is going on to decide whether the Department of Commerce or the Department of Trade and Customs shall be the dominating authority in trade agreements. I extend my sympathy to the Government, but, at the same time, I am delighted, because I know that in building the Cabinet it was merely constructing its own political coffin. It cannot carry on much longer with these disintegrating influences at work. In order to show how disintegrating they are, I suggest that the war now raging on the other side of the chamber as to which Minister I am to address is also being waged as to which Minister is to lead the delegation to London. If  Dr. Earle  Page is sent, a great deal of difficulty will be caused, and he workers of the nation will be cast into despondency. 
We in this chamber do not have the opportunity of such intimate contact with  Dr. Earle  Page and his utterances as members in another place have, but we do have the fine . and much appreciated opportunity of listening to his chief henchman in this chamber,  Senator E.  B. Johnston. The honorable senator suggests that, because  Dr. Earle  Page belongs to the Country party, that is  prima facie  evidence that he will give a fair deal to all parties, but we have had no evidence of it from the honorable senator himself, because, like every other member of his party, he believes in selling primary products in the dearest market, and objects to paying one fraction more than he is obliged to. pay for the things used in their production, even if reduced prices mean the ruin of our secondary industries. I have not had to dig very far back into political history to find something coming from  Dr. Earle  Page which I think is both disturbing and startling. That honorable gentleman, in his policy speech in 1934, when Minister for Commerce, as he is now, said that, in his opinion, it was essential that there should be a drastic reduction of the then existing tariff to the level of 1921-28. An extract from page 111 ofHansard of the 1st November, 1934, little more than three years ago, is as follows :  - 
Inthe Inverell  Times  of the 20th of August, 1934, appears the following extract from a speech delivered by  Dr. Earle  Page in the Inverell district on the 17th August, 1934: - " There is no better way of increasing wages than by reducing costs." 
I have heard  Senator E.  B. Johnston say the same thing, not nearly so eloquently or so definitely - " What better way is there to do this than to get cheap things from Japan and other places ?" 
Am I to talk to the representative of the Minister for Commerce in this chamber on the protection of Australian industries under the Ottawa agreement, knowing that I am merelyaddressing the  deputy  for  Dr. Earle  Page, who says that the only way out of our economic difficulties is the purchasing of cheap goods, whether they come from Japan or anywhere else? First, it is an impossibility for this Government to reconcile these disintegrating forces, and, secondly, it is a disgrace to any government to ask this Parliament and the people of Australia to accept the impossible attempt which it is making to effect such a reconciliation.  Mr. Archie  Cameron, who, I understand, is the Assistant Minister for Commerce in the House of Representatives, said on the 4th November, 1931, in the South Australian Parliament, as recorded in  Hansard  of that date: - 
As a straight out freetrader I believe in buying in the cheapest market. It does not matter to mo where the article is made so long as it serves the purpose for which I want it. 
Those are the men to whom we are asked to entrust the future of Australia, and the destiny of its great manufacturing industries! It is also feared, by the majority of the people who take an interest in this subject, tha't the leader of the Country party will be sent to the other side of the world, to the very heart of the Empire, to help to revise the Ottawa agreement. How can we expect him to adopt the attitude of fully protecting Australian interests, to which the Leader of the Senate referred in his statement? 
I shall have something to say in a moment about how well the Government hae done. I hope I shall miss none of these salient points. 1 notice that the  Canberra Times of  yesterday said something on this matter. I am not holding up the  Canberra Times  as the last word in journalistic wisdom, but, in spite of the slighting references so often made by the Leader of the Government to any quotations which I make from the press, I intend to read a brief extract from yesterday's issue. I could almost imagine that the paper had an advance copy of the statement which  Senator A.  J. McLachlan has just read to the Senate. The  Canberra Times  said - 
It is recognized, however, that the details involve much consideration. Some sacrifice may be necessary, but closer co-operation between America and Britain is an object worth striving for, even if it involves a measure of sacrifice on both sides. 
I shall not at any time willingly agree to any proposal which in any way entails sacrifice of the interests of Australian secondary industries and the people dependent upon them for their livelihood. It may be objected that I am not willing, to give something away in order, to gel something in return. That would not bc a fair interpretation of my remarks. 1 repeat that I shall not willingly agree ti any sacrifice, and I suggest that s mutually satisfactory bargain will not involve sacrifice. But does anybody believe that the Australian representatives who will go to the other side of the world to take part in this round-tab, conference will be in such a. strong economic position that they are likely to get something for nothing? The idea ifpreposterous to those who know Australia's mouthpieces at such conferences. It is idle to expect from this composite Government of conflicting element! any sort of cohesive and continuous policy, in the interests of Australia, 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. D. McLachlan),  in the course of his remarks this afternoon, said that Australia had not done so badly under th Ottawa agreement. By this I presume he means that since the agreement was made things have been going pretty well with this country. 
Of course.  Senator Dein  is quite positive. He knows all about the subject! But I have obtained some figures dealing with Australia's visible imports and exports, and since they come from an official source, they cannot be successfully challenged, ft i3 true that they may be juggled  i  little, for we know that although figure.' cannot lie there are in this world  someverY  fine liars who can use figures to buttress their own arguments. Nevertheless, these figures tell a story that is irrefutable. In 1932-33, imports into Australia amounted to £58,013,860, anr; exports to £96,597,225, expressed in sterling. In 1935-36, our visible import totalled £85,313,055, arid our exports £107,833,613, showing a favorable balance of £22,520,558, as compared  with  £38,583,365 in 1932-33, or a decrease  oi  £16,062,807. These figures indicate thai the unction of the Leader of the Senate concerning/the trend of trade since the making of the Ottawa agreement is hardly justified. On the contrary, they suggest that the agreement need only bt continued long enough for Australia to get into a decidedly unsatisfactory economic position. During the period mentioned, imports into Australia increased by 47 per cent., whereas exports increased by only 11¾ per cent. The 1932-33 export balance decreased by £16,062,807, 
Or 41½ per cent., notwithstanding the remarkable increase of the value of wool exported in 1935-36. 
SenatorDein. - Why not furnish the Senate with some figures relating to the volumeof the imports and exports ? 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - If ministerial supporters are hungry for further facts they should do their own research, and not attempt to lean on me. 
I have given careful thought to the preparation of my views on this important subject, and I prefer to state them in my own way. 
On the 5th May, 1936, the then Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  in a speech on trade balance and preferences, said this - 
I ask honorable senators to bear in mind not only the effect of this course in respect of duties on agricultural implements and our trade with the United States of America, but also its effect upon our imports as a whole. An alternative would be the flotation of a loan overseas. Can honorable senators contemplatelightheartedly the resumption of borrowing overseas in order to rectify our trade balance? 
This Government in a time of alleged prosperity is very lightheartedly asking the Senate and the House of Representatives to approve its proposal to borrow overseas a sum of £2,000,000 in order to meet some of its defence expenditure.  Senator Pearce  continued - 
Do they appreciate what would bo the effect of that step on Australian credit? Another alternative is that which was adopted by the Scull in Government, namely the imposition of embargoes' and prohibitive duties. Honorable senators must realize that whatever Government is in power it cannot repudiate its overseas obligations and therefore one of the alternatives I have mentioned would have to be adopted. We are now faced with a proposal to- assist the United States of America, which is principally responsible for our adverse tradebalance. 
I should mentionthat the proposal then before the Senate was one to reduce the duties on agricultural machinery, which the then Leader of the Senate was opposing 
I appeal to honorable senators, having' regard to the responsibility which they must shoulder, the knowledge which they possess of our trade figures and the delicate position we have been in for the last twelve months, to realize that at any time a drought may come upon us-. We have had a long series of good seasons, and, according to the normal cycle, we are . duo for a period of bad seasons. Honorable senators should not lightly disregard these factors. I can assure them that they are real and are pressing uponthe Government with a good deal of weight at this juncture. 
Soon, as a result of negotiations that are about to be' entered upon between the Governments of the United Kingdom and the United States of America, Australia will be asked to agree to a course which the then Leader of the Senate said should not; be taken in the interests of this country. 
Let us have a look at, the terms of the Ottawa agreement concerning which I expressed my opinion in this chamber four years ago. I have had no reason since then to modify my objections to the arrangements made at Ottawa. I know that the Government will not take notice of any request which I may make, but I wish to make it plain to the Ministry that all the members of this chamber are not " yes " men. There are still some who have managed to retain the right to criticize the actions of the Government. We think that' the Government has no reason to feel proud of the Ottawa agreement. Articles 10 to 13 embody conditions which we regard as the greatest act of treachery everperpetrated towards Australian industry. I ask definitely that they be eliminated. I make this request on behalf of the Opposition and with the knowledge that, the vast majority of the people of Australia, whatever their political opinions maybe, arc in complete agreement with me. Article 10 reads - 
His Majesty's Government in the Commonwealth of Australia undertake thatduring the currency of this agreement the tariff shall be based on the principle that protective duties shall not exceed sucha level as will (five United Kingdom producers full opportunity of reasonable competition on the basis of the relative cost of economical and efficient production, provided that in the application of s neil principle special  consideration  may lie given to tlie case of industries not fully established. 
My comment on that article is that it is a definite challenge to Australia's national policy of protection. 
I tell the honorable senator that if members of the Tariff Board were invited to express an opinion on article  10,  they would say that it was the cause of never-ending discussion, disagreement and difficulty. 
The interjection of  Senator Grant  is merely a repetition of the Minister's observation this afternoon. Article  11  reads - 
His Majesty's Government in the Commonwealth of Australia undertake that  a  review shall bo made as soon as practicable by the Australian Tarin" Board  of  existing protective duties in accordance with the principles laid down in article 10 hereof, and that, after the receipt  of  the report and recommendation of the Tariff Board, the Commonwealth Parliament shall be invited to vary wherever necessary the tariff on goods of United Kingdom origin in such manner as to give effect to such principles. - 
Every one knows what (his article means and every one knows that every downward variation of the Australian tariff means the dismissal of some Australian workmen from Australian factories, or prevents the development of potential industries to give employment to Australian operatives. The persistent interjections from a number of honorable senators supporting the Government convinces me that my interpretation of the effect on Australian industries of the Ottawa agreement is absolutely correct. When I was preparing the material for my speech, I believed that what I intended to say was right; now I am- sure. Article .12 reads - , 
His Majesty's Government in the Com mon - wealth of' Australia undertake that  no  new protective duty shall be imposed and no existing duty shall be increased on United Kingdom goods-  to  an amount in excess of the recommendation of the Tariff Tribunal. 
The members of the Tariff Board, which consists of public; servants and others, appointed by the Government, and that tribunal is now supreme in these matters. Against its verdict the Parliament has not the right of appeal. Article  13  reads - 
His Majesty's Government in thu Commonwealth of Australia undertake that United Kingdom producers shall be entitled to lull rights of audience before the Tariff Board when it has under consideration matters arising under Articles 11 and 12 hereof. 
There .have been continual wranglings before the Tariff Board, and  it  is no nearer solving the difficulties with which it is confronted than is the Government in respect  of  the national problems with which it is faced. Let us consider what others have said. I direct the attention of honorable senators to the following : - 
The main purpose of the Ottawa agreement, as expressed' in its earlier clauses, was an attempt to aid the primary producer. There are few producers in our big staple rural industries of meat butter and wheat who would not care to claim that much more than a very limited objective has been reached in this direction. Yet, in return for these limited benefits, substantial sacrifices have been made by the Australian manufacturer in the whittling down of the protection which he was previously accorded. A brief summary of this  whittling-down  process may be stated as follows : - 
We know that at such conferences it has been declared repeatedly that the Ottawa agreement, instead of being of benefit, has been disastrous to primary industries. There must be a continual whittling down of the preferences which Australian industries now enjoy. For example, how is the Tariff' Board to decide what industries are likely to become stable and economical ? Only time can prove whether industries " are reasonably assured of sound opportunities for success"; yet the Tariff Board has, willy nilly, to decide this important point. The importers of British goods appear before the Tariff Board, and ask for reduced duties in favour of manufacturers in the United Kingdom. It is impossible for the Tariff Board to determine whether any Australian industry in its initial stages is likely to become a stable undertaking. The quotation continues- 
By the close of 1035, within a little more than three years of the signing of the pact, out of 300 tariff items examined by the Tariff Board, 285 carried duties lower than those operating in 1932. 
The Commonwealth Government removed all the emergency prohibitions whichwere in force when the pact was signed. 
It abolished all surcharges on goods affected by 32 items of the tariff. 
It exempted from primage United Kingdom goods under 149 tariff items and subitems, and reduced primage by 50 per cent. on650 others. 
Through the Exchange Adjustment Act it reduced by 25 per cent. the British preferential tariff to offset the protective effect of the exchange. 
As an example of the speed of these drastic tariff changes may be cited the fact that between 1st December, 1934, and 30th November, 1935, three alterations in the tariff were tabled in Parliament. In the schedule tabled in November last the total of the reductions on items andsub-items for the twelve months was brought up to 1,054. 
I do not think it necessary or desirable that I should quote further in that regard. i have criticized the policy of the Government, and I now propose to submit constructive proposals. 
The honorable senator is not capable of understanding them when they arc submitted. In my opinion, the following provisions should be borne in mind and regarded as the basis for any new agreement with Great Britain :  - 
There should be an exchange of specified margins for preference to Australia in regard to its exports of foodstuffs, and to Great Britain in respect to its general exports to Australia. Neither country should expect the other to take goods that woulddisplace domestic production. 
In other words, the fiscal policy of Australia has always been Australia first, the United Kingdom second, and other countries third, on a basis of equality. 
I mentioned other countries. If other dominions act as we do, there will be no inequality. 
I cannot be expected to enunciate the trading policies of the other dominions, but I presume they are similar to that of Australia. 
Suggestion number 2, which is an elaboration of suggestion number 1, reads - 
Great Britain is necessarily a large importer of food products. No more than one-quarter of Great Britain's total requirements are produced internally. In respect of necessary imports of foodstuffs into Great Britain, Australia should seek preferential treatment. 
We should not only seek but should also demand preferential treatment from Great Britain. We are not dependants or suppliants asking favours from Great Britain. Australia, as an important self-governing dominion, is entitled to demand these preferences. Suggestion number 2 continues - 
On the other hand, Australia is necessarily a larger importer of machinery goods and merchandise for industry, and many luxury items not manufactured locally. 
I suggest for the earnest consideration of the Government that Australia should give a liberal margin of preference to Great Britain over foreign countries on this fair and simple basis - 
A trade agreement satisfactory to both parties should be executed which will be free of- all embarrassing and ambiguous clauses such as characterized the agreement made at Ottawa in 1932, which has since engendered so much ill-will. Such provisionshave caused innumerable disputes before the Tariff Board. 
When a trade diversion policywas before this Parliament, we were told that its adoption would enable adverse trade balances with other countries to be adjusted. We know what happened. In its desire to adjust the trade with Japan, the Government seriously affected the wool-growing industry, and those dependent upon it. Yesterday, the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs read a statement concerning licences, for the importation in respect of motor car chassis, which, owing to the rate at which it was read, I could not understand. I have since had an opportunity to peruse his remarks, and I maintain that, no intelligent man can understand it, but  Senator Dein  might. Yesterday, the honorable member  for Henty  (Sir Henry Gullett)  made a serious charge in respect of moneys which should have been placed in a trust fund and asked the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  what he proposed to do in the matter. If I made the charge made by that honorable member, who was once the Minister directing negotiations for trade treaties, and it is well founded, my seat in this chamber would he declared vacant, and I would be serving a term of imprisonment in one of His Majesty's gaols. 
 That is nonsense. 
I now wish to speak briefly on the proposed Anglo-American pact. I have gone to considerable trouble to obtain information from a reliable source on this subject, and I state quite confidently that Australia is already committed to an agreement to be entered into between Great Britain and the United States of America -without any regard whatever of its disadvantageous effect upon Australian industries. 
I definitely stand by my previous statement. I fear that Australia is already committed, and that thu proposed conference in London next year is merely to confirm what has already been done. 
I agree with that view, and say that the action already taken by the Government in this matter constitutes further treachery to the secondary industries of this country. 
Once more, with all the earnestness at my command, I enter my protest against the treatment which this Senate has received from the Government. As forcibly as I can, I protest against the fact that members of this chamber are never taken into the confidence of the Government, and that we are asked to vote blindly on such very important matters as the revision of the Ottawa agreement and the proposed Anglo-American trade pact. Such a position is most unsatisfactory. 
.- The Leader of the Opposition commenced his speech by suggesting the uselessness of bringing this matter before the Senate at this stage. He then proceeded to say that if the Government went on with this pact and committed itself to a renewal of the Ottawa agreement, Parliament would be told that it could accept or reject those arrangements, but in no circumstances could it amend them. If such be the case, it is a sound reason why this matter should come before the Senate at this stage and why honorable senators should be given the opportunity to voice their opinions for the guidance of the Government before it enters into any pact or agreement. I submit that the Government would have been absolutely recreant to its duty had it not given this chamber an opportunity to discuss this matter. In fact, the Senate would have been belittled in the eyes of Australians if, after giving to members of the House of Representatives an opportunity to debate this matter for a full day, the Government had declined to give to this chamber a similar opportunity, particularly in view of the fact that this matter is one of the most important proposals that has yet been brought before this Parliament. I am not sure whether the 
Government will, as the Leader of the Opposition suggests, be in a position to say to this Parliament later that it must accept willy-nilly any pact or agreement or reject the arrangement in its entirety, but I do not believe that that will be the case. The Government has acted properly in giving honorable senators an opportunity, before such a difficulty arises, to say at least : " Well, in. certain ways we believe in this proposed agreement, but do not make any serious mistakes in your negotiations; if you can take notice of what we say, do not place us in the position of having to vote against the proposals which will result from your negotiations on the other side of the world." It seems to me that the Leader of the Opposition has very little confidence in the strength of his cohort, which will be in this chamber after June next. I believe that the honorable senator is viewing this matter in the light of the strength of the Opposition in this chamber at the present time. I imagine, however, that any agreement which may be entered into by the Government will not be consummated, or will not be placed before Parliament for its consideration until after next June. 
I remind  Senator Brown  that, after June next, the strengths of parties in this chamber will be different from what they were when the present Ottawa agreement was adopted by this Parliament and if, in such circumstances, the loyalty of certain honorable senators on this side were strained and the sentiments just expressed by the Leader of the Opposition were converted into action by his new colleagues, the Government would have much difficulty in having its proposals adopted in the Senate. I say, advisedly, that this is one of the most important matters with which the Australian Parliament has been called upon to deal. To some extent, I believe, with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  that the statement made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  this afternoon, although couched in attractive language, meant very little. 
Apparently it -was meant to re-assure honorable senators, but it was interspersed with so. many qualifications that almost any one would find it easy to point out that it did not actually contain any definite promises. 
Before proceeding to deal in detail with the proposed Anglo-American pact, and the proposed amendments of the Ottawa agreement, I suggest that it is absolutely a waste of time to rely on figures in order to determine the effect of the Ottawa agreement on our trade from 1932 to 1937. That agreement has been in operation during a period of extraordinary economic stress throughout the world. It came into being when the depression was at its nadir; without it, Australia would have returned to normal. The fact that it may not have done any harm to the secondary industries means nothing, because the factories in all countries, with the possible exception of Japan, have been during the latter part of that period in full operation. Their own markets have been full, with the result that they have not attempted in any way to flood Australia with articles which, in ordinary circumstances, they might have attempted to send in. But, if present circumstances on the other side of the world disappear,' as they must within a very short period, when the armaments flood has run its full course, and conditions in those countries return to normal, engineering and other factories will find their output decreasing on account of the completion of the armaments programmes, and they will look around for fresh markets. The circumstances then will not be similar to those which we have experienced during the last few years. We must, therefore, view with a great measure of reservation, tho facts which it is suggested that trade figures in relation to the Ottawa agreement prove. In view of all the circumstances which I have mentioned they prove very little indeed. In respect of these negotiations, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  on behalf of the Government, has given assurances that both our primary and secondary industries will be consulted in order that their interests may not be endangered. I believe that he and his Ministers are sincere in that respect, and that even mem bers of the Country party have assumed a new soul in regard to this matter. Perhaps I should not go to that extreme, but I suggest that members of the Country party realize that the welfare of the secondary industries of Australia is essential to the prosperity of this country. That change of outlook on their part has been brought about, I believe, by the large amount of employment given by secondary industries. They appreciate that those industries, almost, .if not entirely, solved the problem of unemployment during the depression years, and, at the same time, provided primary producers with a profitable local market. From conversations which I have had with  Senator Hardy  and other members of his party  I am confirmed in this view; I believe that these men are beginning to realize that the primary industries are not the only pebbles on the economic beach in Australia, and that it is essential that both sections of industry should be encouraged side by side. I am glad to say that during recent years such a policy has proved its worth by establishing a well-balanced economic system in Australia, and that the view is now held by both sections represented in the Government that it is only through such a policy that we can recover prosperity, and give increased employment. The Prime Minister .has assured us -that the interests of the secondary industries will be consulted before the delegation goes abroad. I hope that that assurance will" be very liberally interpreted. I disagree with the view expressed by the Leader of the Opposition that Australia has been committed in any way in respect of any Anglo-American pact. I know that some criticism has been voiced in this respect, but I cannot imagine for one moment that it is justified. It would be absolutely inconsistent with this Government's policy to enter into any agreement which involved our adherence at all costs to anything decided upon by Great Britain and the' United States of America. It would not acquiesce merely by saying, " Whatever you do, Australia will follow you." I hope that the Prime Minister will place a liberal interpretation on his undertaking to consult those engaged in both primary and secondary industries before the delegation leaves Australia. In this matter, I want to leave no room for misunderstanding. Last week representatives of manufacturers from all over Australia were in Canberra in order to present certain resolutions to the Prime Minister. 
That is so. The presence of these gentlemen in Canberra will enable the Prime Minister to say later, if he so desires, that he did consult with the representatives of both primary and secondary industries during the second week of December, 1937, and that by so doing he had fulfilled his promise. I do not think that the Prime Minister will take that stand; but the way is open for such a. claim. I want it to be placed beyond doubt that before the delegation leaves Australia, these interests will be consulted. 
No. One of my complaints is that the Government did not voluntarily present to the Senate the statement which its Leader read to-day; it acted, only as the result of what happened here yesterday. After all. there is not a great deal of difference between the desires of the primary producer and those engaged in secondary industries so far as the Ottawa agreement is concerned. Both interests desire an alteration of the verbiage of the agreement, particularly the words " reasonable competition ". Those words have caused, and are still causing a good deal of trouble. The position should be made clear. Had the article containing those words been administered according to its literal meaning, at least 30 per cent, of the factories of Australia would have had to close down. The primary producing interests also have cause to complain about the interpretation placed on those words. In this connexion, the Tariff Board is to be commended, for it has practically said that the words do not mean what they say, and have to be interpreted in the light of attendant circumstances. There have been charges of bad faith on both sides. In any new agreement which may be entered into, there should be no room for such charges. Nothing causes bad feeling between friends so quickly as does a loose business arrangement. Article 10 of the agreement, which provides that manufacturers in the United Kingdom are to be given equal opportunities for reasonable competition with manufacturers in Australia, means, if it means anything at all, that 50 per cent, of the goods of any particular line that are consumed in Australia shall be manufactured in Australian factories, and the balance in Great Britain. 
I am advising the Government against the inclusion of any such provision; I am telling it what the secondary industries of this country, desire in this connexion. The alteration of the verbiage will probably not alter the practice of the Tariff Board and of Parliament in regard to the agreement, but it will leave no room for any misunderstanding in the future. I hope that full effect, will be given to the Prime Minister's promise before he goes away. 
Sena tor Duncan-Hug hiss. - Is the Prime Minister going away? 
I do not know. But I do know of a gentleman whose leadership of tho delegation would be acceptable to those engaged in secondary industries. I could, in fact, mention the names of two or three men who would make acceptable leaders ; and I could also mention others who would not be acceptable. The Government knows as well as I do the men who would not be acceptable to the secondary industries. I trust that it will not outrage public opinion in this matter by sending as leader of the delegation a man who is suspect as to the value he places on Australian secondary industries. 
The Commerce Department is supposed to negotiate and administer trade treaties; but, whilst I do not undervalue its achievements, I point out that ever since its establishment its function has been to deal solely with primary products. Obviously, therefore, the Minister in charge of that department is not the man to lead a delegation which will be authorised to negotiate treaties affecting Australian secondary industries. 
It is a one-sided aspect. The honorable senator knows that the activities of the Commerce Department have been confined to primary products. In that field, it has, I believe, done good work. 
Yos. 
The honorable senator has not kept abreast of recent developments. In 1931, when conditions were at their worst, both primary and secondary industries were in a bad way, but with the coming into power of the Lyons Government,, and the restoration of confidence, secondary industries immediately began to absorb unemployed workers. 
It was not until 1.935-36 that wool prices showed any considerable advance; and those prices continued for only  one year. Secondary industries, however, continued to put more and more men into jobs. For some years wool prices fluctuated, but, in 1937,  they  again rose, as did also the prices of other primary products, including butter, wheat, and metals. I emphasize that right from the beginning of the depression in 1931-32, the number of men employed, in Australian factories, as well as the output of those factories, increased, and that the improvement was mot due to better prices for primary products. 
Not to any great extent, but there is opportunity for expansion. Australia already supplies practically all the iron and steel requirements of New Zealand, it sends large quantities of manufactured goods to South Africa, and is in a position to export agricultural machinery. At the moment, Australia could sell galvanized iron in a number of countries at below world prices, but as the output is not sufficient for Australian requirements, the export trade has not been developed. However, when Lysaght's new £1,000,000 factory at Port Kembla is finished an export trade in galvanized iron should commence. On previous occasions I have quoted figures to show that the prices of pig iron, steel bars, and other steel products, are at least 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, cheaper in Australia than in Great Britain. 
About 5 per cent. I remind the honorable senator of my earlier statement that trade figures for the last five or six years must be accepted with caution, because they do not prove what they set out to prove. I do not want to labour this matter, but I was glad to hear the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  acknowledge that certain limitations had been placed on tariff autonomy. That is what some of us in this chamber have said on many occasions. Since, admittedly, there has been a limitation of tariff autonomy, it is evident that Parliament is not supreme in these matters. When tariff schedules have been under discussion the Government has claimed that in such matters Parliament could do what it liked; but this statement admits that the Parliament has been subject to limitations. The words used are very nice, although perhaps they may not sound impressive, but their actual meaning is that to a certain extent Parliament has handed to an outside body its right to be the final arbiter in tariff matters. . The secondary industries of Australia, and I believe the people generally, will be quite content with two or three rather small amendments- of the Ottawa agreement, and I do not think that there will be any difficulty in getting them. At the same time, the task is going to be bigger than it was before, because, instead of the parties to the agreement being Great Britain and the dominions, including Australia, the United States of America has in some way come into the picture, and we may be asked to make sacrifices which we may not regard as in our best interests. 
As we are in tlie dark, a ml as I understand the Government also is in the dark, that, is all the more reason why the man we send to thu other side of, the world to represent Australia must he fully seised of the importance of both sides in industry, and able to hold his own amongst the  astutest  politicians, not only of Great Britain,! but also of the United Stales of America; and I am told that there aru some pretty "slim" politicians on the other side of the world. To show the danger of dealing with the United States' of America in the ordinary way, let me quote the answers given by the Minister for Trade and Customs to questions asked by  Sir Henry  Gullett in June last as to the policy of the American Government towards treaties with other countries. The first question was - ls it a fact that prior in iiic introduction el' the trade diversion policy adopted with respect to the United States of America the Commonwealth Government endeavoured to enter into trade negotiations with the 1'i ted States of America, hut the United States  of America Government would not enter into such negotiations? 
The answer was " Yes The. second question was - 
Is it a fact that one of the reasons given for the refusal to negotiate was that the  President  of the United States is only authorized to enter into trade treat)' negotiations with a country when he is satisfied that there is prospect for the United States to increase her export trade with that country as a. result of the treat)' negotiations? 
The answer was - 
The United States Trade Agl cements Act ot l!).'&lt;4 empowers the  President  to enter into foreign trade agreements only '' for thu purpose of expanding foreign markets for the product* of the United States'", it was represented to the Commonwealth Government  that the United Slates Government could not therefore legally negotiate with the Commonwealth Government except for thu purpose of  increasing  United States exports to Australia.. lt, therefore*, seems to be highly necessary that the leader of the Australian delegation should not be wanting in astuteness when negotiating with those who say that they will not enter into foreign trade agreements except for the purpose of expanding foreign markets for (he products of their own country. The third question was - 
What was Australia':- accumulated adverse  commodity  trade balance with the United 
States for the ten years preceding the introduction of the Government's trade diversion policy? 
The answer was - £180.000.000 for the ten verna ending the 30th June,' 193;".. in addition to that Australia paid to the United States of America, during the same ten year period, £22,000,000 in interest on Commonwealth and State loans. Another question was as to the import duty on sheep's wool entering the United States of America, and the answer was - 
The import duty on apparel wools ranges from 2!) cents to :)7 cents per pound (clean content). This i.« equivalent in Australian  currency  to a range of duties from ls. Old. to U. 10 id. per II). [f the suggested treaty with America is to be of any use to Australian woolgrowers, a most substantial cut must be  made  in. the duties' imposed by the United States of America on wool imports, lt must not: be forgotten that there  i.i  somewhat more difficulty now in making agreements with America than there would have been in the ordinary course, because a little more i hu n twelve months ago Australia embarked upon a trade diversion policy, putting certain restrictions on American imports, which have to bo licensed. I have, always thought the licensing system a very bad one. I regarded it as a mistake at the time, but the Government went on with it, and certain results have followed, one of which is that extra capital has been employed or is in process of being employed in Australia-. Something over £3,000.000 has been invested in new enterprises or in expanding old enterprises as a consequence of the Government's trade diversion policy, 'and the prevention of products of the United States of A'merica from  entering  Australia. I do not know the exact effect of the statement made by the Minister for Trade and Customs in the House of Representatives yesterday with regard to tho alteration of the Government's policy towards America, but, whatever is done, the Government must be most careful that the £3,000,000 of new capital invested in our industries as a result of trade diversion is not thrown into the gutter. 

 Senator Gibbon j It lias not increased the market for the primary producer in Australia by any means. 
I was not looking at the matter so much from the point of view of its effect upon the primary producer. As I said, the policy of issuing licences is a great mistake from many points of view. It is hard to get officials in every State to administer it in the same manne]-, and it would be easy for any unscrupulous person to manipulate it 10 his own advantage. For half a dozen other reasons the policy is a bad one in essence, and should not be resorted to unless no other means of averting an evil can be found. It must also bc remembered that the trade diversion policy had the effect of giving other countries the trade which America had with Australia. According to the answers given to  Sir  Henry Gullett, Australia gained ?764,000 worth of the trade diverted from America, the United Kingdom ?802,000 worth,' Canada ?169,000 worth, Germany ?225,000 worth, and Belgium. ?88.000 worth, whilst France, Japan and other foreign countries shared the  balance.  As regards the motor, car business, although the increase of imports from the United Kingdom into Australia was ?638,000 about ?400,000 worth of it was due to our trade diversion policy, which kept out many American cars. For all these reasons, the Government, in altering that policy, is faced with something which I hope it has considered from all aspects, and to the fullest possible extent. It must remember first that the trade has been diverted to a certain extent to Great Britain, Canada, Germany, Belgium, and other countries, as well as Australia; and, secondly, that in Australia it has brought about the expenditure of over ?3,000,000 in establishing new enterprises or extending old ones. All that capital would be lost if steps were not taken to preserve the protection afforded to the industries in which it is invested. I think the matter of economic internationalism, if honorable senators prefer that term, is being worked to death. There seems to be an idea, that a freetrade policy all over the world would lead to a better understanding between nations, and ultimately to peace. My belief is that, if such a thing came about, it would lead to the biggest economic fights thai the world has ever seen. A low-wage country like Japan, especially with its new acquisition .of Chinese territory, would absolutely flood us out. The people of Great Britain and Australia could no; afford to allow such goods to enter on a freetrade basis. There is too much high  falutin'  about economic internationalism, and too much blame is put upon economic nationalism.  Sir Geoffrey  Clarke, in his presidential address to the British Chambers Of Commerce at Manchester, said - 
At tlie recent congress in Berlin tlie grout est stress was In id cm  the  importance of the removal of trade burners, stabilization of currencies, settlement of international debts, understanding as to armaments, and the better distribution of raw materials, food nml clothing throughout the world. These are. noble sentiments, but let us be honest with ourselves. Do wo really desire a general reduction of tariffs or an  abolition  of quotas? Is it not to tariffs mid quotas that we owe much of our present industrial prosperity? Would manufacturers welcome their abolition? World-wide agreement on this profound question is a magnificent conception but the successive failures of world economic conferences suggest that success will not attend efforts on such a basis, and the only course now open to Great Britain, as thu biggest importer in the world, is bilateral  agreement  by which she must insist on the right to sell to countries from which she purchases. 
The Right Honorable L. S. Amery, in an article contributed by him to the English  National Review,  for May, 1937, said : - lt is only the sheer force of tradition that keeps up the idea that n freetrade world to-day would contribute to British prosperity. Tt would, in fact, be the death of us. 
It appears, therefore, that the people of Great Britain are gradually catching up to the conception of economic nationalism as understood in Australia. We believe here in a balanced economy, with secondary industries providing work for the toilet's of Australia, helping to create the wealth that keeps industry going, and maintaining the standard of living. I hope first, that the Government will make no mistake as to the quality of the leader and personnel of the delegation to be sent to the other side of the world; secondly, that, remembering that our secondary industries desire to help the primary industries in every possible way, it will so qualify the wording of the Ottawa agreement that there will be 11 0 misunderstanding between parties in Australia, or between Australia and Great Britain; And thirdly, that in any negotiations that may take place between the delegates representing the three governments the greatest care will be taken to see that the welfare of the secondary and' primary industries, as well as the interests of the workers in Australia, have first consideration. We believe that the interests of Australia should be the chief concern of the Australian delegation, and that the interests of Great Britain and the other dominions should receive attention in their natural order. After these considerations are met, we shall approve of any arrangement to deal, on the easiest possible terms, with other friendly countries. 
I welcome this opportunity to make a few observations concerning the proposed revision of the Ottawa agreement. There is no doubt that the Government's decision to submit the agreement to a conference for revision has caused alarm to those engaged in our primary industries, and, after listening to  Senator Leckie  this afternoon, we now know that concern also is felt in our secondary industries. In these days of economic nationalism, there is always tho fear that any revision of existing trade agreements will further restrict the markets open to our primary producers. 
My principal object in speaking this afternoon is to express the hope that in any revision of the Ottawa agreement, the valuable preference enjoyed by Australian producers in the British market will be retained, because that is our best overseas market. I hope, also, that there will be no curtailment of the very limited opportunities given to British industries in Australia. If our export industries are to be maintained in a healthy condition, and expanded, the United Kingdom market must be retained. 
I was interested in the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  That honorable senator gave me the impression that, if he had his way, those articles in the Ottawa agreement which give to British industries reasonable opportunity to compete in the Australian market would be eliminated, although I note that he is in favour, as I am, of retaining for Australian primary producers the British market. Our friends in the Labour movement will have to realize that we cannot indefinitely continue to sell to other countries, including Great Britain, unless we are prepared to buy from them a reasonable quantity of their products. I believe in two-way trade. 
I would not approve of a condition of affairs under which we should be sending from our shores ships filled with Australian primary products and expecting them to return in ballast. I desire full reciprocal trade with Great Britain. 
It would be able to absorb more if our secondary industries were encouraged to a greater extent. 
The present rate of exchange between Great Britain and Australia enabled our primary producers to survive during the depression, with its accompanying low prices in overseas markets. I do not know whether exchange will be considered at the forthcoming conference in London, because the rate is determined by the Commonwealth Bank, although I remember that the Bank of New South Wales some years ago gave a useful lead in this matter; but I wish to make it clear to whoever leads the Australian delegation that it is the earnest wish of the Country party that the present rate of exchange shall be retained. This is of vital importance to our primary producers. 
I was amazed at some of the criticism directed against the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  particularly in connexion with the suggestion that he may lead the Australian delegation. I understand why the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and his supporters raised  this issue. Their wish is to create discord between the parties represented in the composite Government; but I cannot understand why  Senator Leckie  should also offer objection. If hip remarks under this head were directed against  Dr. Earle  Page, they were entirely unwarranted, because that gentleman is one of the trusted leaders of the composite Government. 
It has been objected that  Dr. Earle  Page is a low tariffist  and therefore should not lead the delegation. I have never held that view of his fiscal policy. He does not share the very low tariff views of the Western Australian Country party. For the last five and a half years as a senior member of the composite government, he has held the balance evenly between our primary and secondary industries. During the last! three years the Country party has made substantial progress in this Parliament. Wherever 1 look I see the Country party gaining fresh laurels in the form of rural constituencies in the various Parliaments. In this Parliament, for instance, we now have Country party men representing Darling Downs in Queensland, Bendigo in Victoria, and Grey, in South Australia. 
Although personally I have no reason to complain of the existing system, T am hoping that one day we shall see adopted in connexion with  the elections for the Senate, a system under which Country party electors will return their own candidates on their own votes. The Minister for Commerce is the natural and proper leader for this delegation. 
I hope it will be possible for the Government to invite representatives of our great primary industries to take part in the forthcoming conference, if not as delegates, perhaps in an advisory capacity. The selection of men with a .complete knowledge of our wool, wheat, meat, butter and fruit-producing industries, would greatly strengthen the hands of the Australian delegation. It should easily be possible to draw from the ranks of our co-operative associations, two or three gentlemen with the requisite knowledge of these industries. The welfare of all sections of Australian industries, as well as the interests of the people generally, will, I hope, be watched carefully when the agreement is being revised or, as I prefer to think, renewed. 
The agreement has been of very great value to the Australian export industries and I hope that the principle of Empire preferential trade will be preserved and extended. I was pleased to read in the report of the debate last night in the House of Representatives, that the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Menzies)  declared that the Government would not drop the present substance of the Ottawa agreement for the shadow. I take it this means that the Government will not agree to any lessening of the advantages which the agreement has given to Australian primary producers, and I feel sure that if  Dr. Earle  Page leads the delegation the interests of both primary and secondary industries will be carefully safeguarded. 
As the Senate has already had numerous opportunities to discuss, in general terms, the Ottawa agreement, it is not necessary that I should now occupy the time of this chamber for very long. The views of honorable senators are fairly well known. I cannot say that I was very much surprised by anything contained in the speech of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  or in that of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  Nor was I surprised at the remarks of  Senator Leckie.  I regret that the honorable gentleman is not at the moment in the chamber. I have always thought, and have endeavoured to act accordingly, that when one expresses one's views, it is desirable to listen to one or two succeeding speakers in order to ascertain what they have to say by way of reply. 
Last night  Senator Leckie  expressed some concern at the possibility of the Minister for External Affairs "buttingm" T  to the province of the Minister for Commerce or the Minister for Trade and Customs. The honorable senator was afraid, that the Minister for External Affairs might have some share in framing a trade treaty, but to-day he has altered his ground a good deal.  His  chief anxiety now seems to be to prevent certain Ministers, who do not hold the opinions he holds, from representing Australia at the conference. In other words, he favours the selection of Ministers favorable to his view, which is purely the view of those engaged in secondary production. I do not think that I have ever .heard the honorable senator utter a single word to indicate that he appreciates the difficulties of the primary producers. He has invariably ignored the fact that over-emphasis on the secondary industries constitutes one of the greatest dangers to the primary industries in Australia to-day. 
I agree to some extent with the view expressed by  Senator Johnston  that the proper persons to make a commercial treaty would appear to be the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  and, I think, the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White).  They are Ministers who ought to have at their disposal all the information required. I maintain that it is not desirable for certain Ministers to be constantly running to and from the other side of the world. I am in favour of occasional visits being made by prominent Ministers-, but they have their duties in Australia to perform, and it is inadvisable for them to travel to and from Great Britain practically every year. Munsters who have been placed in charge of the Trade and Commerce Departments to carry out responsible work should conduct negotiations in respect of trade treaties. 
They would keep in touch with the Government in Australia. I was about to say that if no gentlemen representing special interests were in attendance, no great harm, would be donn. At Ottawa, there was a large and distinguished delegation of persons representing different industries, who went there largely to look after their own interests and to counteract the actions of others. I do not think that the forthcoming conference would be improved by the presence of representatives of any special interests. Their views are definitely known to the Ministers before they leave Australia. I say with all respect that, in the long run, such persons must occupy a good deal of Ministers' time without serving any useful purpose. 
On the general question of trade treaties, I notice that the Minister  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  claims that the secondary industries are valuable, because we must have migrants in Australia. How many additional migrants have settled in Australia during the last six years, when secondary industries have been developing at a tremendous rate? 
Surely that is not so. Australia was founded about 150 years ago, and I think I am right in saying that when I was a young man there were approximately 5,000,000 persons in Australia, and that during the last half-century, the population of Australia has increased by only one-half. Moreover, .in the early days, one of the most important States operated under a free trade policy. 
Can -the primary producing industries support an adequate population? 
His Majesty's Government in tlie Commonwealth of Australia undertakes insofar as concerns goods the produce or manufacture of the United Kingdom : 
to reduce or remove primage duty as soon as the finances of Australia will allow, ft is claimed that Australia is now in as sound a financial position as it was before the depression, but primage duty has not yet been removed. Of course if we are to take the view of  Senator Leckie  that the Tariff Board is right in reading the agreement in a sense contrary to the meaning of its words, the actios of the Government may be justified. The article, however, says " To reduce or remove- primage duty as soon as the finances of Australia will allow ". Taking the legal view, we might, I suppose, claim that we have the alternative of reducing- or removing primage duty; but surely the obvious meaning of those words is that primage duty will be reduced and removed as soon as possible. The Government has not complied with that provision, neither has it carried out other undertakings decided upon at Ottawa. For years too, it was laid down most definitely in government policy, that there would be no alteration without a recommendation from the Tariff Board ; yet when the trade diversion policy was brought in that undertaking was ignored. Is that a consistent policy? We have made no complaint to Great Britain, on the other hand, and so far as I know that country has not at any time failed to carry out its part of the agreement. 
Great Britain, in making a definite complaint concerning cement, said that we were not adhering to the agreement. There are some who say that we must  have additional protection to produce certain commodities in the interests of defence. The only defence plan which is really essential to us is the defence which is provided by the mother country. That is the only essential defence that we require, and to speak about the necessity to produce this and that trifling article because it is essential to defence is absurd. 1 notice that in one way and another we are establishing numerous new forms of secondary industries because it is said that they are essential for defence purposes. That argument was first put forward about fifteen years ago, I think, by  Sir Herbert  Gepp, but it is now continually used as . a means to promote a variety of secondary industries which are said to be essential to defence. I do not hold that view. 1 think that a great many of these things which are foisted upon us in the guise of defence measures cannot possibly bc justified. We come back to the old conflict between primary and secondary industries. Some say that they march arm in ann, while others contend that they march hand in pocket. 
The Minister also said that we must look to the whole world as our market, but in the main that must surely be for the marketing of our primary products, because an enormous majority of the products sold overseas is produced by primary industries. We must look to the world as our market for primary products to assist our people, because we cannot expect to dispose of our secondary products overseas. Speaking broadly nobody wishes to buy them. Obviously the failure on our part to comply completely with the Ottawa agreement means that we cannot object if some of our preferences are reduced, and it is quite likely that - subject to what I shrill say in a moment - the reductions will be in respect of our primary products. That of course is exactly what we have expected and what we have said repeatedly in this chamber must eventually happen. One-half of the Government supporters have said that if secondary production is encouraged unduly it must eventually affect primary production. It has commenced to do that. I am certain that Great Britain has not the slightest desire to retaliate in respect of anything that we may or may not have done in connexion with the Ottawa agreement, but I feel that what 
I have said will happen; and if we have not complied with our part of the agreement our right to complain has gone. We ought to be exceedingly satisfied if the agreement is renewed. There is no possibility of excluding those portions which do not suit us and retaining those which do, as  Senator Leckie  suggests. 
My opinion has always been that it is better to employ our. people in natural activities rather than in artificial or unnatural undertakings. For the past six years we have all endeavoured to restore employment, but the Government believing that it can be done, as indeed it seems it can be most  rapidly,  by concentrating on our secondary industries, has now produced in this country a state of affairs where secondary industries are for all practical purposes primary industries. These secondary industries, which are fully protected by law, have gradually taken the position which was formerly occupied by natural industries, with the result that there are hundreds of thousands of men engaged in secondary production who, in my judgment and in the judgment of others, should be distributed throughout the country on wheat farms, orchards, and small holdings. Wool and wheat are, at least, industries which are standing on their own feet, and if they get hit the reaction is bound to affect secondary industry, and possibly cause unparalleled unemployment. What on earth are all these factories to turn out, supposing we experience a really severe depression and the people have not the wherewithal to buy their wares! 
I have explained that if anything is to be taken from us as the result of these negotiations, it is likely to be some of the preferences which we now enjoy for our ' primary products. If that happens, we must not be surprised ; indeed, it seems inevitable. I suppose, however, that there is one wider possibility, and that is some general agreement as to a lowering all round of tariffs. Such a movement probably will be only slight. On a past occasion I and about a dozen other honorable senators voted to restore the old 1921-1928 tariff, and if a lowering of duties should come to pass, not only as between Australia, Great Britain, and the United States of America, hut also on a wider basis, I  should  be very glad. Surely we are not going to 'take the view, as one or two honorable senators suggest, that we should militate against the future peace of the world by refusing to surrender any advantage which we now possess. Let us consider this aspect, for example, in regard to boots which used to bc largely supplied by Great Britain. To-day 99 per cent, of the boots worn in this country are manufactured here. Are we not prepared to concede another 1 per cent, of the trade in boots if such action would help, even in a slight degree, to avoid war? My personal view is that the general objective of stimulating international trade and promoting good feeling between countries makes general concessions in trade not only justifiable, but also essential. I hope, therefore, that the Government will send to this conference emissaries representative of both sections of the ministerial party; they can argue the matter out when they get to Great Britain and do the best they can for Australia. Perhaps I should say for the benefit of honorable senators opposite that I am not a freetrader; I am a reasonable protectionist, and that is the only kind of protectionist who should exist. Whatever the Government  may  do, I have no fear that it will have any desire to do harm to either the primary or secondary industries of Australia, but 1 know that its policy during the last few years makes it very likely that if harm falls upon anybody it will fall upon the primary producers. 
In reply to  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  I point out that I have no objection to the making of trade treaties; what I object to is the action of this Government in misleading the people of Australia in respect of such treaties. 
I agree with the honorable senator 'that trade antagonisms lead to war, but when I listen to the rhetorical rubbish voiced by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  and  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  it makes me wonder whether those honorable senators really believe what they say. We shall certainly be sorry to lose  Senator Duncan-Hughes  when he retires from thi3 chamber, but just now we have heard him holding forth to the effect that if we can only concede to some other country 1 per cent, of the trade in boots, we shall be able to wave the olive branch to every other country, and by such action give a lead in the preservation of peace. The Mussolinis and Hitlers apparently will retire into their rabbit-holes, or sheathe their swords, and the lion will lay down with the lamb, simply because some reciprocal trade agreement is made between Australia and the United States of America. Such assertions are pathetic; they make one wonder whether honorable senators who make them have not altogether lost their perspective. We have no hope of ensuring the peace of the world merely by reducing our tariff duties, and it is useless, as  Senator Leckie  has said, to continue to " pull our own legs " in that respect. We are merely clouding the issue by imagining that we shall bring in an era of world peace, by reciprocal trade agreements. As a matter of fact,  Senator Leckie  stated that the Ottawa agreement had been broken in many respects by the Australian Government. He said that we had not fully carried out that agreement. 

 Senator Duncan-Hughes expressed a similar view. We have been similarly accused by Great Britain. In negotiations of this kind, when representatives of different countries enter the conference room, it is a case of diamond cut diamond; an agreement having been signed Australia's representatives will apparently return with it although the Government will have no intention of fully carrying it out. Regardless of whether or not the Government has any such intention, the agreement will not be carried out. That is the position. I do not know whether we have accused Great Britain of failure to honour in full the present Ottawaagreement, but that country has certainly made such an accusation against Australia. In any case, as honorable senators opposite admitted this afternoon that Australia has not fully carried out its obligations under that compact, what faith can we place in this Government when it says it is going to send delegates abroad to make, not only a fresh agreement with Great Britain, but also a pact with the. United States of America in which it proposes to give certain concessions in order to ensure the peace of the world ? If we have failed to carry out an agreement made between ourselves and the Old Country, how can honorable senators on this side of the chamber believe that the Government will carry out the agreement it proposes to negotiate with the United States of America ? 
I entirely agree with my Leader when he says that this Parliament should have the right to lay down the principles upon which an agreement with another country should be made. Admittedly we cannot go into all the details; if we could there would be no necessity to send delegates to conferences overseas to negotiate such agreements. But we should definitely lay down the principles upon which an agreement may be made. 
 Senator Leckie  does not agree with articles 10, 11 and 12 of the Ottawa agreement. 
Yet  Senator Leckie  supports the Government in its efforts to arrange a new agreement along similar lines, and, I take it, by his silence, he is prepared that it should embody these three articles. The honorable senator, together with other honorable senators opposite, does not agree with articles 10,11,12 and 14 of the Ottawa agreement. As my Leader has pointed out, article 3.2 makes this Parliament subordinate to the Tariff Board, a tribunal of its own making. Many members of this Parliament, apart from members of the Labour party, are opposed to these articles, and would like to see them eliminated. We contend that they are pernicious, and, in view of the fact that supporters of the Government also contend that they are wrong in principle, Parliament should make a definite pronouncement in regard to them, so that any delegation journeying overseas to confer with American and British representatives will know that Australia does not desire articles similar to these to be embodied in any further agreement that may be arrived at. 
Apart from the merits of anyagreement that may be made, I ask the honorable senator whether it is not possible for an Australian delegation to come to an arrangement with representatives of the United States of America and Great Britain in regard to trade without embodying a provision of that nature. 
The honorable senator is hedging. He said that this particular article was vita] to any trade agreement entered into by Australia with other countries. 
The honorable senator previously said that the present wording of this provision was essential. Unlike the honorable senator, we of the Opposition are in no doubt as to what we mean; we contend that article 12 is derogatory of the Australian Parliament, and should never have been embodied in any agreement. The Labour party is opposed to any delegation - whether led by the Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  or the Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  - signing an agreement in which will be embodied provisions similar to those contained in Articles 10, 11 and 12 of the Ottawa agreement. Our position is perfectly plain, and admits of no misunderstanding. We on this side do not hold that the mere making of a trade agreement will usher in that era of peace and prosperity of which  Senator Duncan-Hughes  spoke. 
But he meant it.  1 have heard the honorable senator speak on the subject of boots bef ore. On a previous occasion when I followed him in addressing the chamber, I referred to the enormous output of the Bata Company in Czechoslovakia and quoted the statement of Professor Copland that by making full use of their machinery, three firms already" operating in Australia could produce all the boots required in this country. If the manufacturers in the United States of America were to work their machinery day and night, they could produce all the boots required by the people of the world. In the light of those facts, honorable senators -should see the complete absurdity of the Government entering into an agree- . ment with the United States of America to reduce the tariff on boots. Why do not honorable senators opposite see that it is impossible to overcome all our economic disabilities merely by playing at the game of treaty-making? The real cause of the trouble is that under the existing financial system it is  impossible  to distribute such abundant production. Only recently I pointed out that we shall not solve the problems confronting Australia by diverting trade from one country to another. However desirable a treaty with the United States of America may be as a contribution towards world peace, it will- not accomplish what honorable senators opposite say. 
Anything that prevents one country from trading with other countries must cause a certain amount of bitterness in the minds of. the people whose trade is impeded. That happens with almost every country whoso product has increased as a result of competition between country and country, and also because of the fear of war and the desire te solve its own unemployment problems. We in Australia entertain a measure of bitterness against those countries which will not buy our goods. Similarly, producers in New Zealand are somewhat bitter because Australian producers arc competing with them in their own territory, and they are trying to convince their government of the wisdom of imposing a tariff on goods imported from Australia. Has the Ottawa agreement taken us one step towards the solution of our economic and defence problems? I am inclined to agree with  Senator Leckie  that, had there been no Ottawa agreement, Australia's development would have been the same. 
I do not believe that either protection or freetrade will solve the problems that confront us, although I admit that at times economic exigencies necessitate a certain course of action. I remind  Senator Herbert  Hays of the actions taken by the Governments of the Commonwealth and New Zealand in connexion with the trade between the two dominions in citrus fruits and potatoes. A new country must safeguard its industries by imposing duties which are sufficient to enable them to develop. 
Yes. "The imposition of duties on certain commodities has resulted in the development of Australian industries. In, other words, Australia has taken steps towards a form of economic nationalism  similar  to thai adopted by other countries. That is an inevitable development of the modern system whereby each country, by means of a policy of economic decentralization, attempts to foster its own industries. The more industries that are developed in the various countries, the les3 chance there is of international trade. I should like the Leader of the Senate to give an assurance that any action taken by the delegation will not adversely affect any Australian industry. The honorable gentleman said that Australia may have to make certain minor sacrifices. The people of Australia would like to know the nature of those sacrifices and who will be called upon to make them. Instead of talking in a general way of the probable results of a trade agreement, the Government should be more definite as to the line of action it proposes to take, the nature of the sacrifices that will have to be made, and the sections of the community that will make them. The Senate should not be satisfied with the generalities contained in the Minister's statement. Unfortunately, we on this side cannot trust the Government. 
Only a few months ago, the Government inaugurated a trade diversion policy which adversely affected the United States of America and Japan. Yesterday, we were told that that policy had been set" aside. Since that policy, which was a form of economic nationalism was inaugurated, £400,000 has been extracted f rom the people, ostensibly for the purpose of establishing a fund to assist in the manufacture of motor engines in Australia. That money was not, however, put into a trust fund, but was credited to Consolidated Revenue. The policy aimed at making Australia less dependent on other  countries  for certain types of machinery, hut it has now been discarded. In the light of that experience, how can we trust the Government? It speaks glibly of what it will do in the interests of Australia, but, within eighteen months of the inauguration of a new policy, it announces a change which involves the making of minor sacrifices. The people are told that it is done in the interests of world peace. 
I hope that I have made it clear that I am opposed to the people being misled. I am not opposed to agreements, but I realize their limitations. If we admit them, we shall not mislead the people. 
Honestly, I do not think our trade diversion policy worried America more than a fly does a horse, or a flea a dog. It might have done a small amount of injury, but we in Australia have, a wrong impression and a distorted perspective. Those who have travelled the world, as I have, know that a relatively small country like this cannot have upon America or the British Empire or the rest of the world the effect that some people here imagine. Whilst an agreement may assist in a measure to further the interests of Australia, it will not do what some honorable senators would like to mislead the people into believing that it will do. The Attorney-General  (Mr. Menzies)  said - 
We must approach the angle of American trade negotiations with a helpful spirit, but we must not drop the substance for the shadow. Our eyes to-day are on London and Washington, but we will not see clearly unless in the background we discern Berlin, Paris, Rome and Leningrad. 
That statement is liable to mislead our people into thinking that, simply because another delegation is going to the Old Country, and our eyes are on London and Washington, all our troubles and disabilities are about to be overcome. We on this side of the Senate say that the main object of the Government should be the internal development of Australia. Our eyes should be turned first to Australia itself. We should not give the people the impression that, by making agreements with foreign countries, we shall promote Australian internal development and create a state of affairs in which all our workers" will be employed, and the enterprising leaders of industry receive their due reward. It is hopeless to expect to put back the economic clock, and it is useless for Australia to imagine that it will place itself on an even economic keelmerely by sending another delegation to London, to enter into another agreement such as the one I now hold. 
I have answered that question many times already from my position in the Senate. 
No; I have on several occasions made the clear, concise statement that the Labour movement, understanding the evolutionary development of the world, stands first and foremost for the development of Australia to the highest pitch, andthe prosperity of its primary and secondary industries. We shall not give way one iota in that regard. That is contrary to the Minister's statement, which calls upon the industrialists of this country, whether primary or secondary, to make minor sacrifices. We claim that the making of those sacrifices will not achieve what the Government expects. We say that they should not be made by any Australian industry. We make that clear, concise statement to the world, so that the position of Australia may not be misunderstood. It is absurd, as  Senator Leckie  said, to " kid " to the people, and to pull their legs, but that is what the Government is doing in telling them that, by making these agreements, Australia will advance a long way towards a happy solution of its problems. Development is going on in every country. In respect of what production are our people to be asked to make a sacrifice? Only a few years ago, the American Government actually paid its farmers to kill their pigs and cows, to plough in their' cotton, and to refrain from growing many other products. Are any of those commodities to be included in an agreement? How absurd it all is! What commodity is to be asked to make a minor sacrifice? America can practically flood the world with most of the commodities it needs. What a trumpery tale is this to put before the Australian people ! I object to giving them the impression that such wonders can be achieved merely by making an agreement with regard to certain commodities that can be produced in abundance in America. What commodity could we send to America that it cannot produce? 
If as the result of sending our wine to America, we get in return commodities that the Empire cannot sell to us and that we cannot produce ourselves, then we shall make a definite step towards raising the standard of living in Australia. There may be minor matters on which some agreement can be come to, but they are very minor, and very few. The making of an agreement to send South Australian wine to the United States of America, will not take us one step towards world appeasement orworld peace. Is there any other commodity that honorable senators would like to mention? 
Why does it not buy our wool now? We are producing wool in great quantities, and its price has been reduced. The stupid action of a stupid government in its trade diversion policy caused Australia to lose nearly £7,000,000 on its wool crop. Only a few weeks ago many graziers in Southern Queensland assured me that they had lost hundreds of pounds as the result of that policy. The Government's economic proposals will not take us very far towards world peace. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

Debate (on motion by  Senator Cooper)  . adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill bo now read a second time. 
A bill similar in several respects was passed by the Senate during the earlier part of this year. The portion of the earlier bill relating to the ports to which the act applies has, however^ been omitted: from this measure which deals with one matter only, namely, the cancellation of licences. e 
The amendments proposed in paragraphs  a  and  b  of clause 2 have been the subject of representations to the Government by the waterside workers, and in presenting this amendment, the Government is, indeed, doing what it has been requested to do. The amendment in paragraph  a  relates to subsection 3, which reads as follows : - - 
Where a licence issued to any person is cancelled under this section, the licensing officer by whom the licence is cancelled .shall, by writing under his hand, fix a period, not being less than six months nor more than twelve months from the date of cancellation, during which the person shall be ineligible to receive a licence under this' part, and the person shall, subject to this part, thereupon be ineligible accordingly. 
By that provision, a licensing officer cannot cancel a licence for a period of less than six months. Paragraph  b  of the proposed amendment relates to subsection 6, which reads - 
Upon the hearing of an appeal, the court may as it thinks fit, confirm the cancellation or order the restoration of the licence, or, where it confirms the cancellation, may vary the period during which the appellant is ineligible to receive a fresh licence, but so that the period of ineligibility is not less than six nor more than twelve months. 
A restraint is placed upon the licensing officer in that he cannot suspend a licence for less than six months, and, further, if an aggrieved waterside worker appeals and is successful to the extent that he convinces the magistrate that his. offence was of a trifling nature, the magistrate, none the less, cannot reduce the term of suspension to less than six. months. Under the proposed amendment, the licensing officer may cancel a waterside worker's licence for any period not less than one month, nor more than twelve months, and the magistrate, on appeal, may vary the sentence so long as he does not reduce the period of suspension to less than one month. 
The amendment in paragraph c of clause 2 is intended to deal with existing cases of cancellation. As the amendments are ameliorative in character, I ask honorable senators to agree to the speedy passage of the measure. 
.- It is not my intention to debate the bill at length. When it was before the Senate previously I secured from the Minister in charge a definite assurance that the only purpose of the measure was to ameliorate the conditions regarding the cancellation of licences. I have since been advised that it will do something more, and I wish to have that matter placed beyond doubt. I understand that at pre'sent it is possible to alter the application of the act by regulation, and that if this bill is passed, this may not be achieved except by the passing of another measure. I think it is well known to honorable senators that when a Labour government is returned to office it will repeal the act. 
The statement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that he had received from the Minister in charge of the hill on a former occasion, some sort of assurance suggests two things : one, " that the assurance was given grudgingly, and that the other was that in its terms it was not strictly accurate. I was in charge of the bill at that time. It did not then contain the provisions to be found in proposed new sub-section 6a. When I informed the Leader of the Opposition that the purpose of the bill was purely ameliorative, the statement was strictly correct. 
It was then intended to do two things; to permit the licensing officer to suspend a licence for a period of less than six months, and, in the 'event of a case being taken before a court of petty sessions on appeal, to enable the "magistrate to reduce the period of suspension to a period less than the six months provided in the act. Proposed new section  6a is new. I have not had time to examine it, but I accept the assurance of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  that it has been inserted to meet the cases of persons who have already been dealt with, and have had their licences suspended for the minimum period. The intention of the Government, I understand, is that even if persons have been dealt with under the act as it stands, they may still receive more liberal treatment. 
 in reply  - I give the Leader of the Opposition (SenatorCollings) my assurance that the statement made by my late colleague, SenatorBrennan, is absolutely correct. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this measure is to increase the amount of the maternity allowance to £7 10s. where there are three or more previous surviving children, and to provide for anall-round increase of £26 per annum in the amount of allowable income. At the present time the amount of theallowance is £4 10s. in respect of the first child and £5 where there ; are any previous surviving children under the age of fourteen years. The amount of allowable income -is £221 per annum, or £4 5s. aweek, with an additional £13 per annum in respect of each previous surviving child under the age of fourteen years up to a maximum of £312 per annum, or £6 a week. 
It is nowproposed to liberalize the provisions ofthe act with a view to extending additional assistance where families are large, and where incomes are small. To meet these cases, it is proposed to increase the rate of the allowance to £7 10s. for the fourth and each subsequent child. It is also proposed to increase the amount of allowable income from £221 per annum, or £4 5s. a week, to £247 per annum, or £4 15s. a week. The additional income allowance of £13 per annum in respect of each previous surviving child under fourteen years of age is being retained with a limit of £338 per annum, or £6 10s. a week, in lieu of £312 per annum, or £6 a week, as at present. As the law stands, only the children of the mother are taken into account in determining the allowable income and the amount of the allowance. It is now proposed to amend the act to enable the inclusion of dependent children of the husband by a former marriage. In accordance with the existing requirements of the act, a claim for maternity allowance must be lodged within three months of the date of the birth. It is now proposed to provide for discretionary power to be vested in the Commissioner to extend the period where satisfactory reasons are furnished for the delay in lodging a claim. The total cost of the above liberalizations is estimated at £96,000 per annum, or approximately £50,000 for the balance of the current financial year. 
SenatorCOLLINGS (Queensland) [8.16]. - The only comment I have to make in connexion with this measure, which the Opposition gladly supports, is that in view of the Government's continued claim that prosperity has been restored, I regret that it has not restored the original allowance. 
We must provide for the slump which the honorable senator has prophesied. 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - If I thought that the Government is preparing for the depression that some of us expect within the next two years I should probably express somewhat different views concerning some of its proposals. This is a niggardly proposition. Any one reading the billwill see the extraordinary lengths to which its framers have gone to see that nounfortunate mother gets even a fractional allowance beyond that  which she is entitled to receive. It would be simpler to submit a bill of a few lines providing that an allowance be made to mothers regardless of income, as was provided in the measure originally sponsored by the Labour party. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
1 followed with very close attention the speeches of honorable senators on this subject, and particularly that of  Senator Leckie,  who contends that primary production is not responsible for Australia's financial and economic stability. Statistics disclose that the ratios of exports to total production are as follows: - Wool, 94 per cent.; butter, 45 per cent.; lamb and mutton, 26 per cent.; dried fruits, 72 per cent.; wheat, 72 per cent.; apples, 49 per cent.; canned fruits, 42 per cent.; dmi wines, 21 per cent. I do not propose to cite the exports of secondary products, but, as honorable senators are aware, the quantity is very small. Australia's stability can be assured only by meeting our overseas commitments, and that is done with the proceeds from the export of our primary products. I do not wish to disparage the. value of our secondary industries, because I realize that they assist to absorb a large portion of our population, and that those engaged in secondary production consume large quantities of primary products. These two sections must work together if we are to have a well-balanced population? Australian manufacturers are, I know, capable of producing commodities equal to those manufactured in other parts of the world, but the products of our secondary industries are used almost solely in Australia. I was surprised to hear  Senator Brown  oppose a renewal of the Ottawa agreement. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator Brown  must realize that under the Ottawa agreement Queensland meat producers were able to dispose of 1,750,000 cwt. of chilled beef, worth £3,000,000, on the British markets during the last twelve months. 
I differ from the Leader of the Opposition, because Argentina when compared with Australia is penalized £d. per lb. of all meat  it  exports to Great Britain. Queensland  is  the only State exporting frozen beef, and 9S% of Australia's beef exports  is  despatched from Queensland. Had the agreement not been adopted Australia would not have an advantage over Argentina of fd. per lb. of all meat exported to Great Britain. 
Prior to the adoption of the agreement Queensland was exporting only frozen meat; but the meat producers in that State now export up to 1,750,000 cwt. of chilled meat each year to Great Britain. Practically all of the benefit resulting from the export of that 1,750,000 cwt. of meat  is  reaped by Queensland. I ask honorable senators opposite also to bear in mind that during the next two years our export quota for chilled meat can be expanded to a further 2,000,000 cwt. annually, representing a further £3,000,000 in value. This makes a total of £6,000,000 for chilled beef alone. 
We have gained those benefits under trade agreements with Great Britain. These agreements have been subsequent to the Ottawa agreement. I am not now speaking of the Ottawa agreement in particular. Honorable senators opposite must be aware that, as the result of the increase of our export quotas under those agreements, a greater area of land has been thrown open for dairying in 
Queensland during the last twelve months than in any previous year. 
At the moment, I am dealing with our export trade as it has been affected by our trade agreements generally with Great Britain.  Senator Brown  apparently would deny to the producers of Queensland the benefit of the increased exportations to which I have referred.I draw attention also to the preference of £15 a ton enjoyed by Australian butter on the British market as against Danish buttter; this has been a great help to our dairy farmers in disposing of their surplus. Instead of opposing the negotiation of agreements which confer such benefits on this country honorable senators opposite should welcome them. Developments during the last three years have proved definitely that our present trade agreement with Great Britain is the finest yet made by an Australian government; particularly can this be said in respect of the benefits it confers on Queensland industries. I cannot understand the contention of honorable senators opposite that the Government is proceeding along wrong lines in negotiating further agreements of this nature. 

 - Senator Brown said that the whole of our trade negotiations with Great Britain were useless, and contended that the Government, in negotiating further agreements, was giving other countries a cause for war. I prefer rather to stick to facts, and, consequently. I must endorse the Government's proposals. Honorable senators have endeavoured to cast suspicion on the intentions of the representatives who may be selected by this Government to go abroad to negotiate new agreements. 
In any case, we know that Australia's representativesat previous overseas conferences did exceptionally well on behalf of this country, and, particularly, on behalf of Queens land. I ask the Leader of the Opposition whether Australia could have secured better terms for our chilled meat, dairying, butter and sugar industries than were obtained at previous overseas conferences ? 
The agreement made in respect of the sugar industry was instrumental in granting that industry a greater measure of security. This was largely due to the activities of  Mr. Casey,  the Australian delegate. I admit that the Honorable Forgan Smith, Premier of Queensland, was also in attendance. 
The agreement was the result of the negotiations which were first commenced at Ottawa; since that time further trade agreements have been made with Great Britain and other countries. I suggest that if our delegates at the forthcoming conference overseas do as well for Australia as our representatives did at previous similar conferences, every member of this Parliament, irrespective of party, should  be  more than satisfied. 
I wish particularly to offer some comment upon the criticism of the Ottawa agreement which has been voiced in this debate. That agreement has been criticized from the time it was approved of by this Parliament right up to the present. A favourite expression of condemnation used by a member of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, is that the Ottawa agreement is "the greatest ramp ever put oyer Australia". I have heard him use that expression on a number of occasions. The Leader of the Opposition in this chamber  (Senator Collings)  now describes that agreement, or, at least, some of its provisions, as "the greatest act of treachery ever perpetrated against Australia ". My colleague,  Senator Leckie,  who approaches the agreement with a great measure of timidity, does not say that it has wrought all the havoc suggested by the Leader of the Opposition, but he claims that nobody can determine with any degree of accuracy what proportion of the increased amount of prosperity enjoyed by Australia during  recent years has been due to the operation of the agreement. In respect of its effect on our primary industries, I accept the view just expressed by  Senator Cooper,  and as to the rest of the criticism, I merely say that those who attack the agreement are under some obligation to prove their charges. The onus rests upon them. The fact remains that in respect of whatever subjects the Ottawa agreement touches we could, if we had the timer to- go into the relevant figures, show that that agreement has conferred benefits upon Australia. The general attack made- upon- the agreement seems to be that Australia got nothing out of it and that- we- gave something away.. L do. not agree with that view for one moment. I accept the relevant figures, which show beyond doubt that we have gained distinct advantages as the result of its operation. 
I- am afraid that on 'more than one occasion the honorable senator himself has said so.. This afternoon he reminded us of his prophecy when the agreement was signed- that it would be of no use to Australia, despite the fact' that developments-during the last five years prove the wisdom, of those who framed the., agreement. If. an agreement is being entered into between two countries, or individuals or. corporate bodies, no doubt both parties expect to get something out of it, and in respect of a trade agreement both parties may find their hopes justified ; it is quite possible,.and in the order of nature, that a trade agreement should prove of advantage to both parties to it. When critics of this agreement can bring forward nothing to substantiate their contentions, they fall back on articles 9 to 13. inclusive. To-day, the Leader of the Opposition, by some strange mischance, overlooked: article 9. I have no. doubt that he will take the earliest opportunity to repair the. oversight. In criticizing! an: agreement, one has got to take it as a whole, but. critics of this agreement do not take it as. a whole. After,' an experience of its. operation over the. last five years, they have  not yet learned, that elementary method of construing, any agreement. They start at the middle of it, at article 9, or, should they happen, by mischance, like the Leader of the Opposition, to miss that article^ at a later article. An analysis of this agreement.show8 that,, up to article 9,. Great Britain gives, and from article 9 onwards, receives- benefits. Surely honorable senators' opposite would not expect  Great  Britain to enter into, an agree-* ment in which it; would- be expected- to give everything and receive nothing. It is- only by giving as well as. taking that both parties- may benefit, from- an agreement. 
Before I. deal with what; Australia undertakes to-  give- . in-, return foi-' what it receives,, let us' see what Great Britain undertakes to give. Under article 1 the Mother Country frees us from all the duties' which were imposed under its Import. Duties" ActThe provision of that act did not apply to Australia. That is a marked, benefit. Under article 2 - 

 His Majesty's Government' ins the United Kingdom will invite:- Parliament- to- pass the legislation necessary to impose, on the foreign goods specified in Schedule B appended hereto, the duties of customs shown in that schedule in place1 of 'the1 duties  (if any) now- leviable. 
The United Kingdom allows* the duties on the goods set out in Schedule B. That is to our advantage. A margin of preference in respect of wines is allowed to Australia under- article 3' which* reads*- 
His Majesty's Government'' in- the United. Kingdom will invite Parliament to- pass the legislation necessary to secure to Australiangoods of the kinds specified, in. Schedule C appended hereto which comply with the law and statutory regulations- for the time being in force affecting the grant of Imperial preference, the. margins- of preference specified: therein over simitar foreign goods. 
A further benefit is conferred, on Australia' by article  4r. - 
His Majesty's Government- in&gt; the United Kingdom undertake that the general ad valorem duty of ten per  cent, imposed bySection I of the  Import Duties Act  1932, ora the foreign goods specified' in Schedule D shall not bc- reduced: except with the consent, of His. Majesty's Government in the Commonwealth of Australia. 
That is. so.  Senator Leckie  objects to the words " reasonable competition." in article 10" which  Senator Collings  regards as an act of treachery against Australian industry. That article reads - 
Hia Majesty's Government in the Commonwealth of Australia undertake that during the currency of this agreement the tariff shall be based on the principle that protective duties shall not exceed such a level as will give United Kingdom producers full opportunity of reasonable competition. 
Does he want- to give to United Kingdom producers opportunities of unreasonable competition ? Having regard to what Great Britain has conceded to Australia in the earlier articles, it is surely not asking too much that producers in the Old Country be given opportunities of reasonable competition. It is, moreover, to be reasonable competition-. 
On the basis of tlie relative cost of economical  and  efficient production, provided that in the appllication of such principle, special  consideration may be given to the- case- of industries not fully established. 
Article 11 provides- - 
His Majesty's Government in the Commonweath of Australia undertake that a review shall be made as soon as practicable by the Australian Tariff. Board of existing protective duties, in accordance with the principles laid down in article 10 hereof, and that after the receipt of the report and recommendation of the Tariff Board the Commonwealth Parliament shall be invited to vary, wherever necessary, the tariff on goods of United Kingdom origin in such manner as to give effect to such principles. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that every variation of the tariff means that some 'man  or woman in Australia is thrown out of employment. That is reckless language for the honorable senator to use, in view of the fact that the figures in relation to factory employment are higher to-day than ever before in the history of the Commonwealth. 
It is a wonder that the honorable senator who commenced his speech by sympathising with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator A. J. McLachlan),  in his task, did not put forward something for me to answer. 
I am doing the best I can with the material supplied by the honorable senator.  His  criticism disregarded the facts. 
Article 12 also troubles the honorable senator. It reads - 
His Majesty's Government in the Commonwealth of Australia undertake that no new protective duty shall be imposed and no existing duty shall be increased on United Kingdom goods to an amount in excess, of the recommendation of the Tariff- Tribunal. 
He sneeringly referred to the Tariff Board as a body of public servants placed above Parliament. I ask him- if there is anything derogatory to Parliament in. Parliament itself conferring on another body the power which is contained in this article? The very fact that Parliament can confer the power is evidence that it has supreme power. Is there anything derogatory to Parliament in Parliament handing o%7er entirely the administration, of justice to a body of judges,, and never interfering ' at all with their work! Similarly is there anything derogatory in Parliament providing, that, before duties are increased, there should be something in the nature of a judicial inquiry, in the interests not only of our English brothers,, but also of Australian consumers? 
It says that the Commonwealth Government undertakes not to impose a new protective duty, and not to raise existing duties, beyond the recommendation of the Tariff Board. 
The honorable senator would not claim for this Parliament a greater position of eminence in the world than that occupied by the Mother of Parliaments. 
-For the honorable senator's enlightenment, I shall repeat article 4- 
His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom undertake that the general ad valorem duty of ten per cent, imposed by Section 1 of the  Import Duties  Act  1932, on the foreign goods specified in Schedule D shall not be reduced except with the consent of His Majesty's Government in the Commonwealth  of  Australia. 
The Mother of Parliaments undertakes not to alter certain duties without* the consent of the Australian people. 
It is also claimed that a wrong is done to Australia by giving to the representatives of English manufacturers the right of audience before the Tariff Board. 
Unless I am mistaken,  Senator Leckie  himself said that this article led to bickering and quarrelling between friends. He expressed the hope that in any new agreement which may be framed article 10 would be so worded as to leave no room for disagreement. When we are dealing with a trade agreement between countries it is extremely difficult, and, if I may say so, extremely unwise, to attempt to impose limitations which are too narrow.  Senator Brown  said that this Parliament should be given the opportunity to lay down the principles upon which any agreement that may be entered into shall be based. Does he not understand that the purpose of this discussion, and that which took place in the House of Representatives, is to give effect to the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  that, before the delegation left Australia, representatives of primary and secondary industries would be consulted? Obviously, it is not practicable to take all the people of Australia to the other side of the world to thresh out the details of an agreement. The Government for the time being is the executive of the country. It is entitled to speak on behalf of the people, and to give effect to their sentiments in any agreement^ which may be entered into. When such an agreement has been drawn up, it is impossible for this Parliament to amend it. Parliament may do one of two things; it may either reject the agreement as a whole, or accept it as a whole. Prom the very nature of things, an agreement which has been drawn up as a result of a conference on the other side of the world cannot be amended on this side. 
Parliament still retains full and complete control. The agreement provides that it shall not come into operation unless approved by Parliament; As I have said, Parliament may cither approve it or reject it. 
While  Senator Brown  was speaking, the Leader of the Opposition referred to the action taken by  Mr. Scullin  during the depression. At the time that the Ottawa agreement was entered into, the Scullin duties, which included surcharges, primage duties, prohibitions, and soaring protectionist rates, were operative. 
That was the condition of affairs which existed when this agreement, providing for reference to the Tariff Board, was discussed. The Leader of the Opposition said this afternoon that tho Scullin Government had to take strong action to remove a cancerous growth, and that its action saved Australia. I have no criticism to offer regarding the action taken by  Mr. Scullin  at a time of crisis for Australia, but I remind the honorable gentleman that the thing3 done by the Scullin Government were not thought necessary in New Zealand, although the conditions there were similar. In that dominion, although there were no surcharges, prohibitions, or primage duties, the imports fell away exactly as they did in Australia. The figures for Australia also disclose that the importation of goods which were not subject to special restrictions fell away just as much as in tho case of goods to which the restrictions applied. 
The explanation is that imports and exports are matters of trade and barter. Goods cannot be brought into Australia if this country is not in a condition to pay for them. That was the position at the  time that the imports fell away, and the reason for the falling away. 
Nothing whatever, as the experience of New ' Zealand shows. 
Those supposedly obnoxious articles, Nos. 9 to 13, leave my withers unwrung. I see in them nothing of which any government responsible for framing them has reason to be ashamed. I have the greatest confidence that, whatever the personnel of the delegation which will go abroad to negotiate a new agreement, it will consider the interests of Australia as a whole, and do its best for Australian industries, both primary and secondary. The positive assertion of the Leader of the Opposition, that already Australia has been committed to follow Great Britain in whatever it does, is entirely without warrant, as he must know. 
I should like to know where is the honorable senator's authority for making that statement. My comment is that he made it without having the slightest ground upon which to base the allegation.  Senator Leckie  expressed, on behalf of the manufacturers, some fears about an agreement that may be entered into with the United States of America. I realize the necessity for the secondary as well as the primary industries to be prosperous. Any agreements which we may make with America may involve some changes, and may include something which affects the prosperity of this country. The Loader of the Senate using a not very happy phrase, said that they might "involve sacrifices", but I can assure honorable senators opposite, and  Senator Leckie,  that the maintenance of good relations with the United States of America' to-day may have" a direct bearing, not merely upon the prosperity of this country, but also upon its very existence- 

 Senator a. j. mclachlan  (South 
A ustralia - Postmaster-General ) [9.3] . -  in reply  - When the opportunity was given to honorable senators to discuss the broad issues which emerge from the statement laid by me upon the table of the Senate, I expected them, instead of discussing the bargaining that was to take place between the Mother Country and ourselves, to apply their minds to the real issue that underlies the whole of these negotiations.  Senator Brennan  concluded on a note which I should have expected to pervade this debate.  Senator Brown  issued a direct challenge to the opinions of all the great thinkers of the world, when he said that reciprocal agreements could have no effect in solving world difficulties. I believe the hope of the leading minds of Great Britain and America, and all who wish  civilization well in such a crisis as we are passing through, is that reciprocal agreements will help. We, however, have to listen to dismal Jeremiahs who say that nothing good can come from reciprocal agreements, and that we can live, as the Pitcairn Islanders existed, by taking in each other's washing. That is a policy which must inevitably fail, and on which I venture to think Australia will turn its back. What is the motive underlying the endeavour to get Great Britain, and the mighty United States of America together ? 
The honorable senator's tongue has reached great maturity, but his brain, apparently, has not developed to the same extent, because his words to-night - and I took them down myself - were : " reciprocal agreements are of no effect in solving world difficulties ". The honorable senator preached a doctrine of dismal despair with regard to the world's future. He belongs to that school of thought, in which apparently his colleagues join, which holds that no good can come out of an alliance between Great Britain and the United States of America. 
The honorable senator's words, coming from a man who holds a seat in a chamber such  as  this, amazed me. What did he mean by saying that reciprocal agreements can do nothing to solve world difficulties? He was dealingwith the subject-matter of the statement that I placed on the table this afternoon, and he knew full well,' as every honorable senator should have known, that underlying it all are the  rapprochement  that is taking place, and the discussions that are now proceeding, with a view to bringing the United States of America and the Mother Country into some agreement. If that should come about, it should be one  of  the greatest steps forward in securing peace for the world, together with a certain amount of stability. If we can make  a  contribution to that end, surely this proposal should not be discussed in the terms of whether some of our industries, primary or secondary, may lose a few feathers. 
The honorable senator would like to reduce this issue to some individual industry which may be harmed. I think he heard enough from his Queensland colleague  (Senator Cooper)  to-night in that regard, and I do not propose to discuss the matter on that basis at all. If there is any State that has benefited by the Ottawa, agreement, and all that has followed from it, it is Queensland, as witness the security for its sugar industry, and its advance in the production and export  of  meat. A preference of¾d. per lb. as against the Argentine represents on a 600-lb. bullock £1 17s. 6d. If our producers are not in a position to handle the British trade successfully with that benefit, they should not be producing cattle at all. These are not the issues which I intended should emerge from those broad principles that I endeavoured to lay down in the statement placed before the Senate. I hoped that honorable senators would realize what all this means, what the best minds in Great Britain and the United States  of  America are desiring to bring about. 
I could not help recalling an incident that took place while I was on my way to Geneva to sign the Kellogg Pact on behalf of Australia. The distinguished man, who, at that time, was the ambassador of the United States of America in Paris, called me to one side, and said, "You are going to Geneva?" I said, "Yes". He said, "You are going to the League of Nations?" I said, " Yes ". He said, " There isonly one League of Nations that is worth while ". I said, " I know He said, " It is not the one you mean, it is the League of Nations of the English-speaking races ". That man has since passed to the beyond, but I venture to think that in those words he was speaking prophetically regarding the fate of the world. 
The honorable senator may find that observations of that, kind suit a street corner audience at South Brisbane, but when we are discussing a serious subject, upon which so much depends, I expect honorable senators to have a full sense of the responsibility that, rests upon them individually, as well as upon the people and the Parliament, at this critical juncture in world affairs. We have heard something about nations living in self containment. We know of the sufferings of some peoples by reason of restrictions placed by their rulers on world trade, and their desire to practise the principle of economic nationalism to the full, refusing to trade with their neighbours, conserving their cash, and arming to the teeth with no peaceful intentions towards the rest of the world. I venture to think that if we could bring the Mother Country and the United States of America into a closer alliance, and a better relationship than has hitherto prevailed, we should be taking an immense step forward. We know how difficult these matters are, and how the selfinterests of various industries, be they primary or secondary, emerge from time to time. We know how hard it has been for us to" make an agreement with our fellow Australians across the Tasman Sea. Those New Zealanders are Australians to the core, their sentiments  and habits are Australian, a large percentage of them are related to our own  people,  and yet we are unable to bring about an agreement with them. The public men of the Mother Country and. the United States are faced with a herculean task, which they have taken upon themselves - a task which might mean the saving of civilization - and we, therefore, should be willing to make sacrifices in the interests, not only of our own selves, but of civilization as a whole. 
If some sacrifice of an individual industry we.ro mentioned discussion would follow, and every selfish element in the community that was affected would immediately denounce and -deride any attempt to complete this tremendous effort in the interest of the world. The honorable senator's question also connotes a further suggestion which emerged from some of the speeches this afternoon, namely, that Parliament should have an opportunity to discuss any agreement before it is finalized and signed. If any such procedure were adopted, no agreement would ever be made between nations. Interests of various kinds would arise, criticisms would come from them, attacks would be made on public men, and nothing could, be done. This thing must not be weighed on fine scales at all. We have to take the total good that is to come to the people of this country, to all the British communities, and to the whole world, because the principle underlying all these negotiations is the ultimate preservation of world peace.  
I assure the Leader of the Opposition that no pact has been arranged, there has been no suggestion of one, and no proposals have been made for one. The United Kingdom is to-day in a position to denounce the Ottawa agreement, with all its benefits to the Australian meat industry and all those other allied industries to which  Senator Cooper  has referred. If Australia took a small view, if it bothered about this or that small thing, if it wished to preserve this or that trifling interest, then I think things would go ill with us, having regard to the position in which we are placed with our tremendous primary production. 
As my colleague, points out, having regard to all that underlies these negotiations, it might go hard with us in another and even more serious connexion. 

 Senator Leckie was under the impression that the Government yesterday announced a change in its trade diversion policy, but I can assure him that the safeguards for Australian industries still remain. If he will examine the statement made yesterday by the AttorneyGeneral, he will see that those principles which have ' governed our fiscal policy in the past - will be maintained in the future, in relation to all those items to which he has referred. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  may have to decide between sacrifices in respect of a number of tariff items and the' sacrifice of the country which we all hold so dear. 
Does' the Leader of the Opposition believe that we can go unscathed in the world crisis that is approaching? Does ho not realize that if a certain nation succeeds in harnessing to the chariot wheel of its  manufacturing  industries the vast forces of a neighbouring country, even the might of Britain will not be able to help Australia in the economic war? 
The Leader of the Opposition is wandering from the point at issue. He declines to face the stern facts that emerge from present world conditions. He refuses to realize the impotence of any single nation against the conditions that prevail in the East and the possibilities of even more devastating competition if the latent industrial forces of China are employed in the coming economic w.ar. This country, in order to preserve its economic independence, will then, be obliged either to resist by force the elements that threaten it, or yield to forces to which it has not hitherto given way. Thus I say that in the best interests of Australia we should do everything in our power to promote by friendly negotiations, a closer association with that great country of British origin, the United States of America, and endeavour to bring to bear in world affairs forces that will uphold the standards of living of the white races. This is the problem that confronts us and is influencing the leaders of thought in Great Britain and the United States of America.  Senator Brown  would denounce all these endeavours by the wisest statesmen of the old and new world to meet the difficulties caused by the spirit of economic nationalism. He would pit, his knowledge as an economist and a statesman against that of men who are nearest to the vital issues that are causing the world so much concern. He denounces all reciprocal agreements. 
The honorable gentleman definitely declared that reciprocal agreements were of no avail in solving the present world difficulties. But all this empty twittering by the honorable gentleman is as futile as the idle wind. If it be true that reciprocal agreements make no contribution to the cause of economic peace, then indeed the world is in a desperate condition. It is difficult to understand  Senator Brown's  attitude to the economic problems that beset practically all countries. He and his friends preach the doctrine of economic nationalism, not realizing that in doing this they are depriving the people of Australia of the opportunity to enjoy the good things which can be furnished by other countries, and that this false economic policy leads to dictatorships of one form or another. The Government will enter into these negotiations with Great Britain with a full sense of its responsibility to every worthwhile Australian industry. As to the leadership of the delegation, despite the efforts of the Opposition and a number of government supporters to obtain from me the names of the Ministers who will attend the conference, I can only say that I cannot give them the desired information, because I do not know. 
My honorable friends can rest assured that whoever may be the Minister appointed to lead the delegation, he will be a good Australian, and that the delegation will do its best in the interests of the people as a whole. I say, in all sincerity, that the future safety of Australia and all that we prize so much may depend upon the deliberations of the forthcoming conference. I regret that this morning, when I placed on the table of the Senate the official paper, I did not initiate the debate on a higher plane.I felt during the afternoon that it was a pity indeed that we did not apply ourselves more to the principles which have influenced the Governments of Great Britain and the United States of America to attempt to get together, because the combined forces of these two great nations will have a steadying influence on world affairs that was never more necessary than at this time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Sitting suspended from 9.26 to 10.17 p.m. 

I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill is to provide for raising £2,500,000 by loan to meet the cost of a part of the defence programme of the Commonwealth for 1937-38. In the present state of international affairs it is scarcely necessary for me to deal at length with the urgency of the Government's enlarged defence programme. That aspect was fully covered by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  and the ex-Minister for Defence  (Sir Archdale Parkhill),  during the last session of the last Parliament, and in the budget speech the Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  outlined the sources from which the Government proposed to finance the defence provision. They are as follows: - 

<graphic href="155332193712080_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

The above figures represent Australian currency and the amount authorized by this bill also is in Australian currency. As was stated in the Treasurer's budget speech, it is proposed in the first place that the funds required to cover that portion of the defence programme bo charged to a loan to he raised in London by means of treasury-bills to be issued to the Commonwealth Bank. The amount of those bills will he £2,000,000 sterling, representing £2,500,000 of Australian currency. In view of the urgency of the defence programme and the restricted field for borrowing in Australia, the Government believes that the present proposal represents the most reasonable and expedient method of raising the necessary funds. 
 The Opposition has already expressed its opinion concerning the Government's proposal to raise the £2,500,000 in the manner proposed, and does not intend to elaborate its reasons for opposing the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
. The Minister  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  has stated that the money proposed to be borrowed in London is to be used to. purchase equipment which cannot be manufactured in Australia; but a portionis also to he expended on works, buildings, and sites. Obviously, money will not be expended in London for those purposes. 
The bill authorizes the borrowing of £2,500,000 which is to be used for the purposes set out in the schedule. The schedule has been restricted to items of defence expenditure in the nature of capital expenditure appropriately chargeable to loan fund. Whilst the schedule includes some expenditure to be met in Australia, there will be an equivalent amount of defence expenditure in London from appropriations of revenue) already passed by Parliament. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
During the debate on the Appropriation Bill yesterday I undertook to obtain information in respect of a query raised by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  regarding the expenditure last year of an amount of £739 in connexion with the election of representatives on the Dairy Produce Control Board. I take this opportunity to inform the honorable senator that this sum was expended in the preparation of the rolls and the election itself. The election was conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office, and the expenditure of £739 was ultimately met by the Department of Commerce. There were contests in eight cases. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence yet in a position to reply to a, question I. asked on the AppropriationBill concerning the distribution of gas masks? If not, willhe have the information forwarded to me as soonas it is available? 
SenatorFOLL. - I have not yet received the information from the Minister for Defence but when it comes it will be forwarded to the honorable senator. 
The answer I received yesterday to a question on notice concerning relief to primary producers is incomplete in that it is given in retrospect. What I sought was information as to whether any plan had been submitted by the States to the Commonwealth in regard to the future disabilities of primary producers; in other words, whether the subject has ever been approached with a view to having it settled in a statesmanlike manner. 
I regret if the department failed to comprehend the full purport of the question submitted by the honorable senator. I thought a complete answer had been given, but having regard to his explanation I shall ascertain whether any such proposal, apart from the relief afforded under the debt adjustment legislation, has been submitted to the Commonwealth Government. 
Owing to the early hour- at which the Senate met to-day it has been impracticable to obtain answers to the questions upon notice. As soon as replies are available they will be forwarded to the honorable senators concerned. 
I move - 
That the bill benow read a second time. 
The amount of £100,000 proposed to be appropriated, is to be allotted to the States on the basis of population. In selecting a programme of works consideration will be given, as far as practicable, to those centres in the metropolitan areas and in the country districts where unemployment is most pronounced. The works to be undertaken will be of a character suitable for the unskilled worker. Conditions in the States are at present favorable to the tradesman, and, therefore, works requiring skilled labour and involving substantial expenditure on materials will not be selected. Men will be engaged from the ranks of those at present unemployed, the only exception being that foremen and gangers from the existing organization may be employed, if available. In engaging labour the State Labour Bureaux will be used. These authorities are more in touch with the unemployment situation and, therefore, in a better position to select the most urgent cases. The Department of the Interior at present operates under the contract system, and, us the engagement of labour is only intermittent, has not an organization in the States to deal with registration and the allocation of employment. Employment under this appropriation will be entirely on a day labour basis. In order to spread the benefit from this money over the greatest number, it is proposed to giro to each man three weeks' work, which will enable 7,000 men to benefit. The works to be included in the programme will consist mainly of earthworks, such as clearing, grading, levelling, drainage, roads and other improvements at Commonwealth establishments; they will be useful works which will add to, or maintain, the value of such establishments, and, moreover, can be put in hand immediately. The proposed appropriation will enable the department to carry out works which have not been put forward previously owing to more urgent requirements having to be met. 
 The members of the Opposition are, of course, favorable to the passage of this bill. If we have any regrets it is that the Government cannot, especially at this time of the year, increase the amount substantially. After all, this grant is a slight recognition of the fact that prosperity is still absent from the lives of many of our people. The amount to be distributed is a mere pittance, and will not go far to relievo the poverty which  is  prevalent  as  the result of unemployment. We approve the bill because  it is  an admission that something should"  bc  done to assist those in need. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read asecond time, and passed through its remaining stages  without  amendment or debate. 
I should like to add my small tribute of gratitude to those who have the responsibility of carrying out the official work of Parliament, and to express the thanks of the Opposition to all those officers, in whatever department they may be functioning, who do so much to make our work here pleasant and more easily accomplished. I believe that we should entertain kindly and appreciative feelings towards the staff, and even towards our political enemies, not only at this season, but on every day of the year. My Deputy Leader interjects that that is, perhaps, a little too much to ask; I do not think so. We can have our political differences - and I make no apology for having very firm convictions - but, at the same time we should remember that we arc all units of the one great human family, or, at least, the Australian section of it. I suggest, therefore, that these sentiments should not merely be expressed on one day out of the 365 in the year, but should constantly actuate our general conduct. 
I am not quite sure that the Leader of the Senate was right when he said that members of the  Hansard  staff have a heavy task in translating into good English the oratorical efforts of honorable senators in this chamber. Such a task may fall upon them so far as some honorable senators opposite are concerned, but, I believe, that members of the Opposition are quite capable of rendering their speeches in good English, and that so far as we are concerned, the work of the  Ilansard  staff is comparatively easy. 
But even some " whirlwinds " can express themselves in food English. I suggest that the position ere in this respect is no different from that existing in the parliaments of other countries. As a matter of fact, I understand that recent Australian visitors to the Mother of Parliaments returned convinced that even that august assembly cannot teach us anything so far as decorum and debating capacity are concerned. In respect of decorum, I might say, in passing, that the Senate invariably sets a good example to honorable members of the House of Representatives. I was an auditor of the proceedings in that chamber last night for a brief time, and I was convinced that, if ever we should wish to stage a revolution in this country, we may there find a good school of instruction. 
To yourself,  Mr. President,  and all honorable senators and members of thu various staffs, I, on behalf of the Opposition, extend Christmas greetings and express the hope that we shall all reassemble next year in good health and good form for- the work that lies ahead. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I should like to reciprocate the genial feelings expressed by the Leader of the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition. That pleasure is somewhat modified, however, by' the reflection that such sentiments are all too shortlived. They should .actuate us all the time and not merely during the Christmas season. As honorable senators are aware, I am speaking for the last time on an occasion of this nature as  President  of the Senate. I have been  President  for over five years and a member of this chamber for over "30 years. Having spent such a great portion of my life as a member of the national Parliament I have naturally gathered many impressions by the wayside in regard to the trend of events. It has been one of tha most tantalizing experiences of my life to find, when reading the lives  of men who have figured prominently in world events, that one is invariably left in doubt as to what they meant when expressing their views on important issues. I shall leave no one in doubt as to what I think about the trend of events in this country to-day, and I make no apology for stating frankly my views. When I compare the feeling existing between political parties in Australia some years Ego - and we must remember that all our parliamentarians are elected by the same people - with that feeling which is becoming apparent in the political sphere to-day, I must deplore the absence of that understanding and sweet reasonableness which characterized the relationships of parliamentary opponents in days gone by. Were I asked to do so I could cite many instances to substantiate this contention, but I propose, at the moment to take only one instance. I point out that not one member of this Parliament was invited to attend the opening of the Sydney Harbour bridge, an event which was of concern to all sections of our people, irrespective of politics. In marked contrast to that, every member of this Parliament was invited to attend the opening of the Goldfields water scheme in Western Australia about 25 years ago. Why this change of attitude has come about I do not know ; I deplore it very much. We must remember that there are as many notions as to how a country should be governed as there are brands of tobacco or whisky, and it is imperative that those who hold fast to a' certain political view must concede to others the right to hold different views; otherwise their intolerance becomes tyranny. 
This glorious country cannot afford to be without the blessing of friendship; amicable relations between all sections of a community are essential to its welfare, [t is quite true that a usurping tyrant may ignore this fact for a short time, while he waxes strong with the support of his followers, but the day will surely come when he must have friendship in order to sustain himself in power. The pioneer in the backblocks cannot live without cultivating friendship wilh his neighbours. He realizes that fact to the full when his homestead is threatened by fire, or when sickness enters his home. And the need of the individual is also the need of nations. Without the friendship of other . peoples Australia cannot endure, and we shall not have that friendship if we adopt the attitude that " we are it " and are entitled to dictate terms. We may refuse entry to other  people  and their goods, but the time will come when we shall have no alternative to fighting them, for they will not tolerate our arrogance for very long. As parliamentarians we are here to do our duty by our country, and to place its feet on the pa'th of peace, progress and prosperity. Above all, we must keep in mind the importance of maintaining friendship with other countries; otherwise we must be prepared to fight. I do not leave any one in doubt as to the opinions I hold in respect of these matters. 
I reciprocate the goodwill just voiced by the Leader of the Senate and the Leader of the .Opposition, and I hope that that feeling will persist throughout the year. If that be the case the country will benefit from our efforts; if not, our people may suffer injury. 
Question, resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 10.55 a.m. till a day and hour to he fixed by the  President. 
